on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very unpleasant dilemma to deal with. on the one hand, the european commission has a good idea: to relax the emission requirements for light vehicles. volkswagen or not, we must admit that the constraints on the european automobile industry are enormous, and in a context of international competition, unlimited opening of trade borders, industrial collapse and exploding unemployment, let us admit that the commission is defending our interests for once. on the other hand, the commission is taking its preferred route: bypassing parliament. it is true that our institutions must be based on trust, transparency and accountability, and this parliament should have been able to take on its bureaucratic excesses. but the time is critical, the economic war has indeed begun, we must act, which is why we will oppose this objection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision taken last october is outrageous. in the process, heads of state and the commission have granted pollution permits to car manufacturers. these will now be able to exceed the pollution standards by 110% until 2020 and by 50% thereafter. it is scandalous and now the services of parliament are saying that it is illegal. in other words, it is a total violation not only of european legislation but also of the european parliament, which is the co-legislator of pollution standards to protect the health of citizens and serve the general interest. we're not in the service of the automobile lobby! instead of being complicit in the lies of the car industry, it is time for parliament, the member states and the commission to take the side of consumers, citizens and the planet. this outrageous decision must be rejected as early as next month. i would urge the member states and the commission to do the same and to look at the establishment of genuine independent type-approval controls and real tests under real conditions as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the scandal which rocked the german car industry last september has revealed a worrying imbalance between emission standards and industrial reality. i share the concern of the drafters of this motion for a resolution about the public health costs of pollution and the inadequacy of the standards in force. the text, however, offers a further twist to an industry already in a state of disarray, by postulating the dogma that the race to growth without pollution is within reach, if the right advice from political ecology is followed. a dogma that has been around for a while let us reiterate that this scandal has benefited american industry and has been detrimental to european industry. let us also reiterate that the reduction of polluting emissions will be achieved by reducing international flows, relocating the economy, a certain form of 'globalization' that no one - starting with political ecologists - wants to mention here. the commission's text is, in the final analysis, the lesser evil, because the better is the enemy of the good.
madam president, we all agree that the automobile sector must make a serious effort to limit the emission of polluting gases into the atmosphere, including nox emissions. the tests carried out so far in laboratories have lacked transparency and honesty, and this is unacceptable, because our citizens need to know the truth about the quality of the air they breathe. this is why the introduction of real driving tests, which are mandatory for all car manufacturers, is a major step forward. but as for me, i will oppose that objection. a vote in favour of the objection to the commission's act would considerably delay the introduction of these tests, which are both better and much more reliable than the previous ones and which do not yet exist anywhere else. it would therefore be irresponsible, both for the environment and for the automobile industry, to postpone the introduction of these tests until the greek calendar. we want to strike a balance between protecting the health of our citizens and preserving the future of the european automobile industry. the adoption of the objection would then be the absence of an immediate solution and the status quo, whereas the rejection of the objection would be the beginning of the solution. in four years' time there will be a compliance review, which will allow us to be even more demanding in terms of reducing emissions from the automotive sector, but this will only be possible by accompanying the sector in this transition and ensuring that the values are strictly respected. it is a question of the confidence that must be restored in our fellow citizens and in the future of our automobile industry, which is an important pillar of our economy. we expect the commission to take strong measures in this respect, to control better the setting up of these tests and to make them more independent.
madam president, doing what we say and saying what we do is a simple code of conduct to maintain the trust of those we represent. one month after cop 21 and its ambitious targets, how can we accept the commission's implementing act which falls below the euro 6 standard on the grounds that it is too difficult to achieve? the automobile industry is in the news today because its emissions are significantly higher in real life than in the laboratory, even though for the past four years it has been bragging about ever cleaner cars. customers and the general public in contact with vehicles no longer want to have to suffer such levels of pollution. and we're not living in a lab! so, the recognition of real-world tests to seriously estimate the pollution level of a vehicle is very good, but above all do not lower the level of requirements. in order to combat the deaths of drivers due to speeding, has the maximum speed been increased? no, it's the opposite. the french minister for the environment has committed, following the decision of the technical committee for motor vehicles (ctvm), to review this implementing act at political level by the relevant ministers in the council. this would give member states the opportunity to reach a better compromise which would guarantee compliance with european standards. by accepting the postponement of our vote in february, we are giving you the opportunity to show that you too can do what you say you will do.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you obviously do not like this european union which you are always trying to save at any cost, because this text is nothing but a real disregard for the european treaties. i would remind you that article 6 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union makes education and culture the exclusive competence of the member states. however, this report, under the guise of good feelings, seeks to bring the educational and cultural policies into the fold of brussels, whose failures, although long recognized by many european leaders, mrs merkel and mr cameron to name but a few, are now taking the most barbaric form. it seems that no matter how much you care about women being raped on new year's eve, or thousands of people being killed in bloody terrorist attacks, you still believe that by forcing the people of europe to deny their culture and tradition, living together will be saved. i cannot say, ladies and gentlemen, whether it is hopeless naivete or total irresponsibility to vote for such a report. those who love europe and the cultural diversity of its member states will vote against this text. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, yes, of course, i understand that there may be examples of things that are a little less complicated than what we are seeing at the moment, especially in our country. you see, at this hour, we have a lot of problems. we've had disasters that have happened in the last few months and we can't pretend they didn't happen. we tried to do that with the monuments that are being destroyed. look, no matter which way you turn, you can't get a cultural exchange that works. we must therefore use what is wrong to try to find solutions and not take systematic action because we have the right to do so. i think we really need to think about this.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i regret that this report on the challenges of financial regulation misses several important points. first major topic, the banking separation. i am talking about the real banking separation, a project that has been stalled since the 2008 crisis. indeed, all regulations on regulation are useless if there is no clear separation between risky activities and banking deposit activities. in other words, it would be to put an end to the universal banking system that holds depositors and savers hostage to play the roulette wheel of the speculative markets with other people's money. that's the ultra-liberalism that patriots denounce: making profits by taking risks at the expense of others. the epp and the socialists are in favour of the status quo in the private banks. worse, because the european union is in a state of financial emergency, not only does it not protect citizens, but, since 1 january 2016, it has even done the opposite, with the disastrous banking union, which legalizes the plundering of savings and then deposits. the last example in december was the italian banking scandal. it is the duty of political leaders to protect the savings of households and the cash of companies in banks and life insurance companies. the second major issue is the revival of securitisation. you should be concerned about the risks of a mechanism that caused social damage and financial losses during the subprime mortgage crisis of 2008. beware of the pandora's box. the aim is to lend to the productive economy and not to further the business interests of the banks. finally, on capital markets union, yes to the financing of economies without bank intermediation, but the chances of success are slim, in the absence of domestic demand in europe and of real economic opportunities in companies, under-financed european companies, which suffer too much from unfair global competition, charges and taxes to risk investing. beyond this, lord hill, i am very much afraid that your european commission is opening up the rich debt market largely to american banks based in the city of london. we will therefore be very attentive to the issues in these cases.
mr president, the commission in brussels has just launched an investigation against several french farmers' unions, including the national federation of farmers' unions (fnsea). it suspects them of having violated article 101 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which prohibits distortion of competition. they may be hit with very heavy fines. this initiative by the commission is an economic aberration and a human scandal. in france, thousands of dairy farmers and herders are dying because of catastrophic decisions by the union: the end of milk quotas, the russian embargo or the creation of low-cost seconded workers, who have been massively recruited by german slaughterhouses. last summer, their unions obtained emergency measures from the french government that have helped many farmers to survive. it is unacceptable that the commission should now be complaining about them. like the monarchy under the ancien régime, the european union will be swept away by the anger of the french people. in brittany, the revolt has already begun with the "pink bonnets". "is there a riot? no, sire, a revolution is what it is".
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr prime minister of luxembourg, ladies and gentlemen, this luxembourg presidency began under the fire of the luxleaks revelations, this tax evasion deliberately organized by luxembourg in favour of multinationals and to the detriment of other european countries. we shall know little more about this scandalous affair, since the members of the european parliament have decided to bury it by refusing any parliamentary committee of inquiry. shut up, we cheat, we steal. the european countries are being robbed of their tax base. all honest taxpayers - smes and individuals - have to pay more taxes and compensate for this plunder organized by luxembourg and other tax havens, while this sad european union does nothing to stop it. the presidency is coming to an end, and the influx of migrants is dramatic and of considerable magnitude; considerable in the light of the staggering number of people on their way to europe, considerable also in the light of the terrible shock caused by the sexual assaults of 200 german women in the very centre of cologne. these acts of sexual predation mark a regression in our civilization. we all need to stand up for the freedom of women to move freely in our cities. the arrival of millions of people from radically different cultures will lead to violent shocks and conflicts within our societies. it's time to stop this madness. conflict and tragedy, my country has suffered too much this year. the attacks by organized islamist terrorists have been repeated over and over again. fighting islamism and controlling our national borders are absolutely necessary to ensure the security of our compatriots, but a bigger change is needed. our nations are falling apart. we must do everything we can to repair and reform them. multiculturalism is divisive. the united nation appeases, it brings citizens together, it offers them a common future. his return is inevitable, and the sooner the better.
mr president, mr bettel, mr juncker, you are both members from a country which is fundamentally animated by the community spirit and both of you have been extremely active during this period in making progress in the fight against terrorism in the union, and the pnr case was one element along this path. but in the spirit that you're in, don't you think you should go beyond that? should we not allow for real cooperation between intelligence services to finally take place? and, above all, should we not work harder to combat the financing of terrorism, a matter which - if i remember correctly - was considered an absolute priority by the americans after 11 september and which, after all, is now mentioned as a priority only by my country, france? prepaid cards, for example, which are one of the most practical aspects for our fellow citizens, are also a formidable weapon for terrorists. so, mr bettel, as outgoing president, will you leave this torch to the dutch presidency? mr juncker, what are you prepared to do to really tackle this essential aspect of the conditions for the development of terrorism, which unfortunately exists on our territory?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, we all agree that digital development represents a strong growth potential for our small and mediumsized enterprises and smes, and if european cooperation can promote the economic context, then we say yes. but as usual, you are going about it in the wrong direction, trying once again to silence national interests by imposing on the member states the integration of the single market and its digital component. in addition to our doubts that the well-being of europeans, and especially the french, depends on the creation of a european 'big data' or the deregulation of services, we are also very concerned about the security of the strategic data of the states and the personal data of the users. all the amendments we have tabled are in line with what i have just said and we hope that they will receive broad support in the vote. so yes to european cooperation, to consumer protection, to efficient services accessible to all, to logistical cooperation, to the development of icts. but not the supremacy of federalist interests over national interests, which is a matter of political, economic and financial strategy. the future of europe depends on balanced cooperation between nations and not on their dismantling.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs, with a special word for evelyne, not only because it is her birthday, but also for the quality of the sustained exchanges we have had during the preparation of this report. i would like to speak about a very specific area for the european union: culture. it is true, and we all experience it, that it is a little annoying not to be able to satisfy our cultural cravings everywhere, immediately and for free, as we wish. i think that as responsible people, we have a duty to look beyond the bad mood and to ask ourselves the consequences of our choices. we have to ask ourselves whether it is right to abolish territoriality and thus lead to a situation where an artist will not necessarily receive a remuneration for his art, even if a spectator appreciates his work. what are the consequences of our decisions? today we are witnessing an unbalanced balance of power between the internet giants and the creative actors. so our responsibility for tomorrow, rather than thinking in the short term, is to strengthen the conditions for the sustainability of creativity and culture in europe and this must be our priority in this area.
in writing. i shall of course vote in favour of this report, which i have been particularly involved in. the creation of a digital single market will enable the european union to catch up with the united states by making our companies more competitive against the giants of the web. in addition, the digital revolution will offer immense growth potential for european businesses and consumers of €415 billion for european gdp. i am particularly committed to making the confidence of consumers buying online a pillar of this text so that they have real legal certainty, without additional costs. finally, intellectual property and the fight against counterfeiting and piracy have been given special attention to protect our european champions in the cultural and creative industries.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish highway code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the business of mr adam siekierski. polish law requires a waiver of immunity in such cases. in accordance with national legislation, i voted in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ the request for mr siekierski's parliamentary immunity to be waived is based on an alleged infringement of the road traffic act, in this case a speeding offence allegedly committed in poland. polish law requires that his immunity be lifted so that he can pay his fine. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm his political activity and i therefore saw no reason not to accept this request from the polish judiciary.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of poland has forwarded a request from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, member of the european parliament elected for poland, for a driving offence. the facts alleged against him relate to excessive speed recorded by the polish road traffic inspectorate on 10 january 2015 in an area where he should have been driving at 50 km/h (and not 77 km/h as recorded by radar). the alleged infringement is not directly related to the exercise by mr siekierski of his duties as a member of the european parliament and, moreover, the parliamentary committee has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. sufficiently serious and precise evidence indicating that the proceedings were initiated with the aim of harming the political career of the member concerned, it is necessary that his immunity be waived in order for him to pay his fines. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has forwarded two requests for the waiver of the immunity of mep czesław adam siekierski for two alleged offences of speeding in an urban area. in order for this mep to be able to get rid of his fines, it is necessary to withdraw his parliamentary immunity. since this request was clearly not made with the intention of harming the political activity of this member of the european parliament, i decided to support the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the facts alleged against our colleague siekierski relate to an alleged infringement of the polish road traffic code. this is not therefore a case of prosecution aimed at harming the parliamentary activity and political commitment of our colleague. the lifting of immunity is necessary for the judicial procedure, so i decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this debate because it is about enforcing a sanction in the member's country.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish highway code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the business of mr adam siekierski. polish law requires a waiver of immunity in such cases. in accordance with national legislation, i shall vote in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. this decision was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czeslaw adam siekierski, because it is not a political matter but an alleged infringement of the polish road traffic code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm mr siekierski's political activity. polish law requires that his immunity be waived in order for him to pay his fine.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr siekierski's parliamentary immunity because the speeding charge against him has nothing to do with his parliamentary mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this immunity waiver. parliament has received two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of immunity of czesław adam siekierski for an alleged offence of speeding in an urban area. this first request for waiver of immunity does not appear to have been made with the intention of prejudicing the political activity of the member. we therefore vote in favour of this waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the immunity of czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament elected for poland. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate concerning an offence of speeding in an agglomeration. the polish road traffic control authority submits that on 19 april 2015, at 11:19 a.m., in the locality of stopnica, mr siekierski was photographed by radar while driving a vehicle travelling at 79 km/h on a section of road where the speed limit is 50 km/h. since the offence has no connection with his activity as a member of parliament and since czesław adam siekierski does not oppose the waiver of immunity, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish highway code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the business of mr adam siekierski. polish law requires a waiver of immunity in such cases. in accordance with national legislation, i shall vote in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences of speeding in an agglomeration. in the present case, the parliament has not established that there is a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. in order for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived. i call for a vote in favour of the lifting of the ban.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor's office of poland is seeking the waiver of the immunity of mep czesław adam siekierski following two speeding offences allegedly committed by him. it is clear from the file that this is not a procedure designed to prejudice the political activity of the member. moreover, according to polish law, the waiver of immunity is essential for a member of parliament to pay his fines. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs hautala's reports, which concern a standard procedure for waiving parliamentary immunity in the context of infringements of road traffic legislation. the reports were supported by the epp group and adopted by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences of speeding in an agglomeration. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the requests for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski. in this case, it is a common procedure.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences of speeding in an agglomeration. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. in order for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish highway code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the business of mr adam siekierski. polish law requires a waiver of immunity in such cases. in accordance with national legislation, i shall vote in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ the request for mr siekierski's parliamentary immunity to be waived is based on an alleged infringement of the road traffic act, in this case a speeding offence allegedly committed in poland. polish law requires that his immunity be lifted so that he can pay his fine. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm his political activity and i therefore saw no reason not to accept this request from the polish judiciary.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of poland has forwarded a request from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic to waive the immunity of mr siekierski, member of the european parliament elected for poland, for a driving offence. the facts alleged against him relate to excessive speed recorded by the polish road traffic inspectorate on 10 january 2015 in an area where he should have been driving at 50 km/h (and not 77 km/h as recorded by radar). the alleged infringement is not directly related to the exercise by mr siekierski of his duties as a member of the european parliament and, moreover, the parliamentary committee has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. sufficiently serious and precise evidence indicating that the proceedings were initiated with the aim of harming the political career of the member concerned, it is necessary that his immunity be waived in order for him to pay his fines. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the facts alleged against our colleague siekierski relate to an alleged infringement of the polish road traffic code. this is not therefore a case of prosecution aimed at harming the parliamentary activity and political commitment of our colleague. the lifting of immunity is necessary for the judicial procedure, so i decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish highway code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the business of mr adam siekierski. polish law requires a waiver of immunity in such cases. in accordance with national legislation, i shall vote in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. this decision was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr czeslaw adam siekierski, because it is not a political matter but an alleged infringement of the polish road traffic code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm mr siekierski's political activity. polish law requires that his immunity be waived in order for him to pay his fine.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr siekierski's parliamentary immunity because the speeding charge against him has nothing to do with his parliamentary mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this immunity waiver. the european parliament has received two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic for the waiver of immunity of czesław adam siekierski for a second alleged infringement for speeding in an agglomeration. this second request for waiver of immunity does not appear to have been made with the intention of prejudicing the political activity of the member. we therefore vote in favour of this waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the immunity of czesław adam siekierski, member of the european parliament elected for poland. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate concerning an offence of speeding in an agglomeration. the polish road traffic control authority submits that on 10 january 2015, at 20.22, mr siekierski did not comply with the speed limit in urban areas, namely 50 km/h, and drove at a speed of 77 km/h. since the offence has nothing to do with his activity as a member of parliament and since czesław adam siekierski is not opposed to the waiver of immunity, i am voting in favour and i would ask mr siekierski to drive a little more carefully.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish highway code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the business of mr adam siekierski. polish law requires a waiver of immunity in such cases. in accordance with national legislation, i shall vote in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor's office of poland is seeking the waiver of the immunity of mep czesław adam siekierski following two speeding offences allegedly committed by him. it is clear from the file that this is not a procedure designed to prejudice the political activity of the member. moreover, according to polish law, the waiver of immunity is essential for a member of parliament to pay his fines. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. - the member has asked for his immunity to be waived in this case, so i am voting in favour of the report, which calls for it to be waived.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the requests for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czesław adam siekierski. in this case, it is a common procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to amend the regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. although the plan has some shortcomings, particularly in relation to the waste caused by the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel or stocks which benefit only a few tuna-farms, the text is intended to support traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna. i am in favour of these fishing techniques, which are environmentally friendly because they are very selective and require very little energy, and which should benefit from a special advantageous regime.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to transpose the iccat convention (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) and to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament by proposing the codecision procedure, in the face of the european commission's request for the possibility of adopting delegated acts. it's the lesser of two evils. however, this report allocates quotas, which is not good for the mediterranean fisheries. however, other traditional fishing methods, such as mackerel, should be able to benefit from a favourable specific regime. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources for sustainable fisheries in europe.
in writing. ‒ this is the transposition of a convention of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccta or iccat) on the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks. the commission has asked for the possibility of adopting delegated acts, but the rapporteur defends the co-decision procedure in order to maintain parliament's prerogatives. i voted in favour of this text which calls for an increase in the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen using traditional and selective fishing methods, a decision which would protect both stocks and jobs, as my colleague sylvie goddyn had requested in committee by tabling several amendments.
in writing. ‒ since the aim is to strengthen the role of parliament vis-à-vis the commission on these tuna conservation issues by transposing the iccat convention into european law and since this plan aims to protect traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna which are very selective and environmentally friendly, i am voting in favour of this report, although some problems such as the exclusion of small-scale fishing or the effects of the quota allocation system are still unresolved.
in writing. ‒ this multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean focuses on the transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. although bluefin tuna stocks have been restored, some issues remain, such as the allocation of quotas, which remains unfavourable to small-scale fisheries. nevertheless, the european commission wants to protect traditional, environmentally friendly fishing methods for bluefin tuna, such as madrague, which should benefit from a special favourable regime. i am committed to the defence of the environment and small-scale fishing and i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr gabriel mato on the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this report aims to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst) between 2012 and 2014. iccat is an international organisation responsible for tuna management, to which the european union is a contracting party. iccat recommendations are binding acts which need to be transposed into union law. the ices recovery plan provides for the following measures: limitation of fishing in certain areas and at certain times, the new minimum size, measures relating to recreational fishing, measures relating to livestock and reinforcement of inspection measures. they are valid until 2022.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report responds to the binding recommendations of the cicta (regional fisheries management organisation to which the eu is a party) on the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the atlantic and mediterranean. in 2006, iccat launched a multiannual action plan to replenish stocks, which will end in 2022. it provides for a reduction in catches from 2007 to 2011, limitations on fishing by zone and period, and a new minimum size. the aim is also to strengthen the international inspection programme through new monitoring techniques, such as the use of stereoscopic cameras to assess the state of stocks. the report stresses, however, that it is essential that these rules apply equally to european operators and to those in third countries. i share these conclusions and have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i supported this report which aims to transpose into eu law the measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct), to which the eu is a contracting party. the purpose of this regulation is to ensure the uniform application of the rules on bluefin tuna fishing and farming capacity within the eu, and thus to ensure a level playing field for all operators.
in writing. ‒ bluefin tuna remains critically endangered in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. of course, the introduction of quotas has improved the situation, but overfishing is still a threat, with quotas being the subject of fierce competition between large tuna vessels and small fishermen. a balance must therefore be struck between safeguarding the marine ecosystem and preserving small-scale fisheries. this is the meaning of the measures in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst). in this context, particular support and attention will be given to small-scale gear such as traditional fishing gear ('almadrabas'), which has a very low impact on marine ecosystems due to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch and their high level of selectivity.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to support the transposition of the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the rapporteur, however, suggested curbing the commission's eagerness by defending the codecision procedure rather than delegated acts. the european parliament's negotiating position is thus strengthened, which i support and consider to be a democratic guarantee. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is about protecting traditional fishing methods, which are more concerned with protecting the environment.
in writing. ‒ this is a transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. the rapporteur wishes to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament by proposing the co-decision procedure in the face of the european commission, which is asking for the possibility of adopting delegated acts. however, there are some shortcomings in this report, such as the allocation of quotas which is unfavourable to fisheries in the mediterranean. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr gabriel mato on the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the aim is to transpose into union law measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct), an organisation to which the european union is a contracting party. the plan is to gradually reduce the catch of this species and to increase inspections. the proposal for a regulation also calls for uniform application so as not to penalise european fishermen. finally, the specificities of certain artisanal fisheries are taken into account, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to transpose into eu law a multiannual plan to restore bluefin tuna stocks in the atlantic and mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this text concerns the transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. the european commission has asked for the possibility of delegated acts, but the rapporteur defends the codecision procedure in order to defend the prerogatives of members. i also supported amendment no 41, which is similar to the one put forward by sylvie goddyn in the commission and which called for member states to ensure that the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen using traditional and selective fishing methods are increased in order to protect stocks and develop employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this multiannual plan because this type of plan has proven its effectiveness in restoring bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i regret, however, that it is not sufficiently favourable to small-scale fishing, which should be defended more.
in writing. ‒ the debate was not about the text itself (these stocks have already been reconstituted) but about the transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. the aim was therefore to defend the codecision procedure and thus avoid parliament being bypassed. the plan, while not perfect, also aims to protect traditional, selective and environmentally friendly fishing methods. despite some unsatisfactory aspects of the plan (waste, the elimination of small-scale fisheries, quotas), i voted in favour, in order to defend the overall spirit of the text.
in writing. - i voted for this plan. it is in fact a simple transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. although this plan does not solve all the problems (quota allocation, waste, etc.), it is nevertheless necessary to protect traditional fishing methods: these methods are selective and respectful of the environment, and should benefit from a specific advantageous regime.
in writing. ‒ the eu is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icta). in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which will end in 2022. to restore stocks, the recovery plan provides for a gradual reduction in the level of total allowable catches from 2007 to 2011, limitations on fishing in certain areas and during certain periods, a new minimum size... in view of the positive evolution of the stock situation, iccat decided to increase the total allowable catch (tac) slightly to 15 821 tonnes, of which 9 372,9 tonnes were allocated to the union, compared to 13 400 tonnes in 2014. the aim is to transpose into union law the decisions of iccat concerning fisheries conservation and management in its area of competence. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. the rapporteur wishes to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament by proposing the co-decision procedure in the face of the european commission, which is asking for the possibility of adopting delegated acts. however, there are some shortcomings in this report, such as the allocation of quotas which is unfavourable to fisheries in the mediterranean. however, other traditional fishing methods, such as madrague, which are environmentally friendly, should benefit from a favourable specific regime. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the fact is that stocks have been replenished. the debate is about the mere transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. the european commission, wanting to act very quickly, has asked for the possibility of adopting delegated acts, but the rapporteur defends the co-decision procedure in order to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament. some problems are not solved by this plan: there is a great deal of waste, for example, through the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel. similarly, only a few tuna fishermen benefit from the stocks. small-scale fishing is excluded, even though everyone claims to defend it. the allocation of quotas is still unfavourable, particularly in the mediterranean. however, the european commission, like the members of the committee on fisheries, wishes to protect traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna. these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment. they should benefit from a special favourable scheme. nevertheless, the report will be voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the case in point is the transposition of the convention into the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the report stresses that the commission should have used the codecision procedure rather than acting by delegated acts. in the main, although some problems persist, notably the high level of waste caused by the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel, or the fact that small-scale fishing is excluded (since the allocation of quotas is unfavourable to it), the european commission and the fisheries committee of the european parliament wish to protect traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna which are environmentally friendly (such as madrague). i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the aim is to transpose into union law the plan adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct), to which the eu is a contracting party. the measures foreseen to help restore the stocks of this species include limiting fishing in certain areas and at certain times until 2022, a new minimum catch size and increased inspection measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mato report on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. this report aims to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst) between 2012 and 2014. iccat is an international organisation responsible for tuna management, to which the european union is a contracting party. iccat recommendations are binding acts which need to be transposed into union law. the ices recovery plan provides for the following measures, valid until 2022: limitation of fishing in certain areas and at certain times, new minimum size, measures relating to recreational fishing, measures relating to livestock and reinforced inspection measures.
in writing. ‒ the report on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean reports on the measures taken in the plan adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. i voted to postpone the committee meeting to allow for the negotiation of a trilogue.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which approves the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this multiannual plan provides for a number of control measures to improve the monitoring and enforcement of restrictions on the types of fishing gear that may be used or on the manner and season in which they may be deployed for fishing. the multiannual plan thus transposes into european law the recommendations adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsta).
in writing. - the stock has been replenished. the debate is about the mere transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. the european commission, wanting to act very quickly, asked for the possibility of adopting delegated acts, but gabriel mato defends the co-decision procedure in order to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament. some problems are not solved by this plan, including a high level of waste, via the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel. similarly, only a few tuna fishermen benefit from the stocks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the allocation of quotas is still unfavourable, particularly in the mediterranean. the european commission and the members of the committee on fisheries, however, want to protect traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna, such as the european bluefin tuna. these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment. they should benefit from a special favourable scheme. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, as fisheries remain a key issue for the european union and our coastal and artisanal economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan which will end in 2022. these multiannual plans contain a number of technical measures. the report stresses the need for uniform application of the rules to ensure a level playing field for all operators involved in tuna fishing, including in particular third country operators. union operators should not be penalised by being required to apply measures that are stricter than those agreed on the grounds that the commission failed to impose such measures during the negotiations under the iccat.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to integrate all the measures on bluefin tuna adopted at international level since 2012 into a single regulation. it should be noted that the treaty entrusts the council and it alone with the task of fixing quotas for all species, so there was no question here of negotiating the quantities of catches authorized. the report has enabled the implementation of particularly stringent management and control measures, following the bluefin tuna crisis, where we saw the biomass of the species fall dangerously. for example, observers will have to be on board all ships without exception. today the stock has returned to an encouraging level in european waters and international scientific bodies have authorised an increase in quotas in 2015. this is a demonstration of the effectiveness of the safeguard measures implemented so far. finally, we voted almost unanimously for a plenary amendment calling for quotas to be set in a fair way between artisanal fishermen and others. for bluefin tuna, as for all species, it is essential that the diversity of fisheries be preserved.
in writing. ‒ bluefin tuna stocks have been restored. the debate is about the mere transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. some problems are not solved by this plan: there is a great deal of waste, particularly through the technique of sending boats to feed tuna with mackerel. similarly, only a few tuna fishermen benefit from the stocks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the allocation of quotas is still unfavourable, particularly in the mediterranean. the european commission and the members of the committee on fisheries, however, want to protect traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna, such as madrague. these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment. they should benefit from a special favourable scheme. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ important issues such as social dumping, the digital economy, social cohesion, public procurement, telecommunications, unfair and illegal practices used by the banking sector are raised in this text. in particular, it is called for the inclusion in a legislative instrument of rules on fines which would have a genuine deterrent effect in the event of cartels and anti-competitive practices. as regards state aid to the banking system, it should cease to exist after the establishment of the banking union and should be linked to conditions for the granting of credit to smes. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. although some of the comments are correct, this report is in favour of the creation of the single market. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which allows the european parliament to place its hope in commissioner vestager for an eu competition policy which can guarantee its leading role in ensuring that market economies and competition in europe are respected and promoted internationally, and in avoiding a multitude of sectoral and national exceptions and uncontrollable exemption thresholds.
in writing. ‒ despite fairly accurate statements on social, fiscal and environmental dumping and some claims that go in the right direction, i cannot support the deepening of the 'single european market'.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on eu competition policy welcomes the commission's report on the importance of competition policy, but calls for competition policy not to be a brake on the competitiveness of firms and for the objective not only to be price reduction but also to be the defence of the eu's strategic interests. this report deals in particular with social dumping, unfair or illegal practices in the banking sector, cases of dominant position (we are talking about integrating fines into a legislative framework to really deter cartels)... the problem of unfair tax competition between states is also highlighted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. contradiction when we know the role of the big banks and multinationals in european affairs and when we do nothing concrete to fight tax havens. despite some interesting observations and good recommendations at times, this report is still trying to destroy our industry, because it wants to go in the direction of the single market when our economies are too different. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ while this report highlights a number of dysfunctions (social dumping, public procurement, unfair banking practices) that should be rectified, or interesting suggestions (truly dissuasive fines, mandatory and automatic exchange of information on tax rulings, common basis of assessment of taxable income, taxation of profits transferred outside the union), it is intended to accelerate the creation of the single market, which is resulting in the destruction of our industry by competition from higher productivity economies. i therefore vote against the conclusions of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the importance of competition policy in the european union, but calls for it not to be a hindrance to the competitiveness of firms. a large part of this report deals with the problem of abuse of a dominant position, which is detrimental to free competition between firms within the single market. the rapporteur stresses that the introduction of more significant financial penalties would limit cartels and anti-competitive practices. finally, in order to combat tax dumping within the union, it is called for the introduction of automatic and compulsory data exchange between member states and the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base. although this report attempts to combat fiscal dumping and abuse of dominant positions, we believe that the solutions put forward contribute to strengthening the single market, particularly through the creation of the banking union. we believe that the loss of competitiveness suffered by our industry and our companies is largely the result of european policies which put too different economies in competition. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ every year, the european parliament produces a report on the union's competition policy. in a europe without borders, it is important that everyone follows the same rules. competition within the union and with its external partners must be fair. distortions of competition such as cartels, monopolies and state aid must be avoided at all costs. the european commission has a duty to enforce competition rules on all member states and on all companies operating in the union and to sanction abuses. the report has enabled me to reiterate my position in favour of tax harmonization and the fight against social dumping. i also reminded the commission of the importance of examining the behaviour of distributors and their interactions at national and european level. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report presents parliament's position on the commission's annual report on the union's competition policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted on 14 june. for the fifth consecutive year, it calls for the reduction or abolition of state aid in the financial sector following the completion of the banking union and the cessation of social dumping measures, which france also defends. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. eu competition policy sets the rules necessary for the smooth functioning of the internal market. in its report, the european parliament calls on the european commission to step up its efforts in several areas, including merger control and the fight against abuse of dominant positions, tax optimisation and social dumping. these measures are important to protect european consumers, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the langen report on the annual report on the european union's competition policy. this 2014 competition report shows that the commission and the competition authority, with over 1 000 employees, are the most powerful authorities in europe to ensure that competition rules are respected in the internal market. i am voting in favour of the idea that in future the multi-billion euro fines for illegal price fixing should be supplemented by penalties for the business owners and managers responsible for these practices. i also believe that decisions taken in the context of competition policy must take particular account of the social implications. i have, however, opposed the paragraphs dealing with competition in the markets for perishable foodstuffs. as things stand, the european union's competition policy is not in line with agricultural problems, and i think that we should therefore call for a joint approach to bring competition policy and agricultural policy into line.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote proposes some changes to the concept of free and undistorted competition, which the commission defends without any nuance. first, by introducing the concept of innovation, it allows the principle of risk-taking and the climate of confidence necessary for investment to be accommodated. secondly, because it takes an approach which is not based solely on lower consumer prices. finally, because it takes up a number of proposals from the committee on taxation to investigate tax records. the report calls for a common consolidated corporate tax base and the introduction of country-by-country reporting. it also wants to reduce state aid to the banking sector or make it conditional on loans to smes. i also supported three amendments on the tisa and ttip trade agreements (in particular their anti-competitive scope and impact in terms of social dumping) and on the preferential use of generic medicines. finally, i voted in favour of the amendment by my colleague edouard martin calling for the large energy-consuming industries to be taken into account and to be supported in the transition of their ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on eu competition policy covers many areas where extreme vigilance is needed, such as the eu's competitiveness gaps, the digital economy, public procurement, telecommunications networks and unfair practices in the banking system. the report before us is also positive in that it seeks to strengthen antitrust procedures and the fight against abuse of a dominant position. it is also suggested that the fight against tax evasion should be accompanied by a european mechanism. in addition to these good intentions, the report supports the reinforcement of the involvement of the european parliament through the codecision procedure. however, all these proposals are only elements of a strategy to strengthen the european single market which is the basis of the european deregulation we know. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it is in favour of a single market.
in writing. - i abstained on the langen report. it contains very relevant and sensible remarks and considerations, in particular on social and fiscal dumping, or on the consideration of the digital economy. it even timidly calls for some intellectual revolutions, such as the redefinition of the notion of competition, by integrating the structure-behaviour-result parameter. it advocates support for european companies competing internationally with companies that are not subject to the same regulatory constraints as them in their own territory. i doubt that these revolutions will take place in the commission. however, the report does not call into question the essential point: this competition is exercised on a european market which is neither single nor homogeneous, since it does not correspond to a single and homogeneous political entity. european policies taken as a whole, far from ensuring the convergence of 28 disparate economies, exacerbate their heterogeneity and even encourage unfair behaviour, as with the 'posting' directive. and it's costing lives, many, too many, especially in my country.
in writing. ‒ competition policy is one of the most harmonised policies in that the european commission has extremely extensive powers of control over state aid, mergers and antitrust proceedings. it is an essential instrument for the smooth functioning of the internal market. this annual assessment is a healthy exercise which enables the legislator and the citizens to know the state of the common market. it is worth noting that cartels cause losses of between eur 181 and 320 billion, or about 3% of the union's gdp; that in terms of energy costs, the european single market is less efficient than the us internal market, with price differences of 31% compared with 22% in the us; that in many member states, a drastic contraction in credit continues to affect smes, which represent 98% of enterprises in the european union and 67% of employees. while we can welcome this regulation, which is the most successful of all european policies, we must continue to be vigilant about anti-competitive or at least offensive practices by foreign companies that may pose a threat to employment in europe.
in writing. ‒ this text raises a number of important issues such as social dumping, the digital economy, social cohesion, public procurement, telecommunications, unfair and illegal practices used by the banking sector. it also calls for the inclusion in a legislative instrument of rules on fines which would have a genuine deterrent effect in the event of cartels and anti-competitive practices. as regards state aid to the banking system, it should cease to exist after the establishment of the banking union and should be linked to conditions for the granting of credit to smes. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. although some of the comments are correct, this report is in favour of the creation of the single market, which is the cause of the destruction of our industry. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because strong competition and a proactive policy on these issues are needed to protect consumers, to strengthen the single market and thus to get back to growth and jobs. the report calls on the commission to step up its efforts to combat abuse of dominant positions and social dumping.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the union's competition policy. he believes it is important to strengthen the international competitiveness of our european companies by asking the european commission not to restrict external commercial strategies. however, like my french colleagues from the epp group, i voted in favour of paragraph 5 to support the fight against social dumping and paragraph 73 supporting the public nature of tax information published by companies under the country-by-country reporting mechanism. i also abstained on amendment no 14 tabled by the gue group to denounce the non-cooperative attitude of many multinationals towards the european parliament on competition policy issues in the context of the work of the taxe special committee, but rejecting the adoption of binding measures against them.
in writing. ‒ i abstained, like the other front national meps, on the report on the european union's competition policy, which calls on the commission to improve the implementation of the single market. despite some good demands and findings on social, fiscal and environmental dumping, and the demand for increased powers of the parliament vis-à-vis the commission, we cannot endorse the deepening of the european single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, despite some interesting recommendations, it is in favour of the creation of the single market, which has the result of devastating our industry by bringing very different economies into competition.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. this report makes some interesting points and some good points, including the recognition that the competitiveness of enterprises and the defence of the eu's strategic interests are a priority. the report nevertheless goes in the direction of creating and strengthening the single market, which we oppose because it will be economically harmful to france. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ in his mission letter to the european commission, jean-claude juncker stated that competition policy would 'contribute to the success of our programme for growth and jobs, including in areas such as financial services and the fight against tax fraud'. the eu competition report 2014 therefore focuses on 'unfair tax practices' in connection with the luxleaks case. but he is simply listing the proposals already made by the special tax committee, while at the same time asking for the establishment of a committee of inquiry which has already been refused. the report notes that 'in the single market, products with different composition from one batch to another are distributed to consumers even though the brand and packaging are identical' and is concerned about possible 'negative consequences for smes' but not for consumers! the rapporteur also stresses that the single market should 'contain an important chapter on competition'. i am voting against this text. it is a very bad case and at the worst possible time that he is repeating the liberal mantras which are the cause of widespread fraud.
in writing. ‒ this report raises a number of important issues such as social dumping, the digital economy, social cohesion, public procurement, telecommunications, unfair and illegal practices used by the banking sector. it also calls for the inclusion in a legislative instrument of rules on fines which would have a genuine deterrent effect in the event of cartels and anti-competitive practices. as regards state aid to the banking system, it should cease to exist after the establishment of the banking union and should be linked to conditions for the granting of credit to smes. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. although some of the comments are correct, this report is in favour of the creation of the single market, which is the cause of the destruction of our industry. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report reminds the commission of the importance of competition policy, while asking that it not be a brake on the competitiveness of companies and that the objective should not be only to lower prices but also to defend the eu's strategic interests. the report therefore deals with social dumping, the digital economy, social cohesion, public procurement, telecommunications and unfair and illegal practices in the banking sector. unfair tax competition between states is also a point raised in the report which calls for the creation of a legislative framework for the eu to prevent aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. finally, the report considers that parliament should also have a co-decision power on competition policy issues. but despite some good points and some interesting recommendations, this report is in favour of the creation of the single market, which has resulted in the destruction of our industry.
in writing. ‒ this langen report on the competition policy of the union welcomes the european commission's report on the value of competition policy, but adds some unoriginal flaws which are still in the direction of deepening the single market. the rapporteur regrets that the eu's only target is lower prices (which lead to deflation, lower yields and therefore weak investment) to the detriment of the 'strategic interests of the eu' (a shame when we see that the big european groups prefer to ally themselves with japanese or american companies rather than european ones and so many of the interests of the eu countries are divergent since they are directly competing). the report makes the fight against tax evasion a priority, but favours the same european solutions (such as accis, a veritable sea serpent). because it is a fundamentally europeanist text, and because it seeks to complete the construction of the single market, i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report on the union's competition policy. some of the measures in this text call for a strengthening of the fight against social dumping, which seems to me to be essential. i also approved the provisions on competition in the perishable food markets. the aim is to protect european farmers and consumers from potential abuse by certain distributors, particularly in the dairy sector.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on eu competition policy follows parliament's support for the commissioner responsible for competition, ms margrethe vestager. i voted in favour of the report, recalling the road map presented to the commission for the success of the programme for growth and jobs.
in writing. i voted against this report which, in commenting on the commission's annual report on competition law, makes openness to competition a real engine of the social market economy, making it possible to complete social and economic cohesion. while i recognize the importance of competition rules in preventing the largest economic operators from abusing their dominant position and agreeing on prices, i am opposed to the view that opening up all sectors to competition is the cornerstone of european construction.
in writing. ‒ despite some good points and some interesting recommendations, this report is in favour of the creation of the single market, which has resulted in the destruction of our industry by the competition of very different economies. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that competition policy is a key issue for the european union. but it should be a means to our growth, not a hindrance. that is why i support the tools to combat social dumping in particular and all the solutions which enable our companies to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by external markets on an equal footing.
in writing. ‒ free, fair competition, which allows the emergence of european economic champions, is one of the conditions for the proper functioning of the internal market and consumer protection. that is why i have supported this text, in which we react to the commission's annual report on competition policy in 2014. our resolution makes proposals in various areas such as antitrust procedures, state aid, merger control, particularly in the digital economy, financial aid and taxation, global competition and the democratic strengthening of european competition policy. i would particularly stress our request that the amounts recovered as a result of an infringement of the union rules on state aid of a fiscal nature be repaid to the member states which suffered from the unlawful practice, and not to the member state which granted the unlawful tax aid. this seems to me absolutely necessary and justified. i would also like to commend the courageous policy pursued by commissioner vestager and the various actions undertaken under her authority, from which we expect results.
in writing. - i voted for the report by werner langen. the european parliament supports this trend in this report, as competition policy is being given new impetus by the willingness of commissioner vestager. it focuses in particular on the new challenges of the digital economy and considers it essential, in the interests of consumers, that fair conditions of competition be guaranteed in this new context. the report clearly sets the objective of combating tax optimisation. it welcomed the commission's investigations into unlawful state aid granted to certain companies in 2014 in the context of unfair tax competition. it expressed concern at the difference between the strict european competition rules and those of certain other countries, which were less protective. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a fair and equitable manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes an annual stock of the implementation of the union's competition policy in the member states. the primary objective of an effective competition policy is to enable economic growth. the european competition policy is not only concerned with the benefits to consumers of lower prices. it must be based on innovation, competitiveness and investment. i supported this text which calls on the commission to put an end to social dumping within the union and to ensure that competition policy takes account of its social consequences, particularly in the most isolated and disadvantaged regions. in addition to tackling social dumping, the european union must embark on a digital single market, complete the harmonisation of its internal market and pursue integration within the member states themselves, particularly in the financial sector.
in writing. ‒ for too long, the european union has been the idiot of the global village. we have strict competition rules that none of our trading partners internationally respect, thus undermining our businesses and our jobs. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which for the first time marks a change in the dogmatism of 'all-competitive'. it recognises the need for moderation of the competition rule for innovation and job protection. after diligent investigations into google's practices, it proposes measures to ensure that the institutions of the digital economy can no longer be caught in the net. it also takes up the european parliament's proposals to combat fiscal dumping, which is a form of unfair competition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. i regret, however, that the right wing, by voting against, has caused two amendments to be rejected. the first would have highlighted the anticompetitive risks of tafta, the second would have sanctioned multinationals which had refused to respond to the call of parliament's special committee on tax dumping.
in writing. ‒ this report follows up the 2014 annual report on eu competition policy. the report discusses social dumping, the digital economy, social cohesion, public procurement, telecommunications, and unfair and illegal practices in the banking sector. a large part of the report also deals with antitrust proceedings and cases of abuse of a dominant position. it calls for the inclusion in a legislative instrument of rules on fines which would have a genuine deterrent effect in the event of cartels and anti-competitive practices. unfair tax competition between states is also a point raised in the report which welcomes the investigations carried out by the commission. despite some good points and some interesting recommendations, this report is in favour of the creation of the single market, which has resulted in the destruction of our industry by the competition of very different economies. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on competition policy is in line with european policies. competition is valued as the 'common foundation of the european union' and the main 'driver of the social market economy'. the report calls for greater openness to competition and for greater independence of the regulatory authorities in this area. this report was supposed to examine the consequences of competition in the tax and agricultural policies of the member states. the impact of the aggressive tax policies of certain member states and the consequences of free competition in the agricultural sector, particularly in the dairy sector, are acknowledged, but no lessons are learned. i am glad that two amendments tabled by my group to protect generic medicines and support dairy farmers were adopted, but i could not vote for this ode to free and undistorted competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the union's fundamental values. this text places the problem of integration at the european level, whereas it is the exclusive competence of the states according to the eu treaties themselves. moreover, this text is very ideological in that it emphasizes that multiculturalism would be the great solution to combating radicalization and religious fundamentalism. finally, the text aims to promote the fact that migrants can enrich the culture of the member states. i think that integration should be achieved by learning about the host culture and by enhancing national identities and cultures, which is the role of the state. i am deeply opposed to a european harmonization of culture and therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ the news is showing us more and more how multiculturalism has failed. the report proposes to continue on this high-speed path. the integration problems associated with successive waves of immigration are a reality that the eurocrats do not want to see. but once again the european union is meddling in national politics by trying to impose its ideology and by wishing to create a sense of common belonging in such a vast territory, within which cultural barriers are far from being overcome, let alone language barriers. in particular, the report proposes educational programmes 'accessible to refugee children' whereas it is integration through assimilation to our national values that should be proposed. the report, which is totally contradictory, affirms a desire to integrate cultural diversity, but goes a few lines further to "take into consideration" different types of communitarianism. on the contrary, we believe it is important to defend our identity, our values and our roots and to give priority to the cultural diversity of the member states and not to create, ex nihilo, a global culture. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that member states commit themselves to supporting the role of intercultural dialogue in education. i pay particular attention to strengthening learning, in particular through the development of programmes funded by the european union, such as erasmus+.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this multiculturalist report which seeks to promote imported diversity at the expense of the various cultural specificities which have made our old continent rich.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed this report which irresponsibly and in total denial of reality, advocates multiculturalism. despite the events of recent weeks, such as the vote of many european women by migrants, the text of the socialist julie ward postulates that intercultural dialogue must be a weapon to fight against racism and discrimination, the real sources of radicalization and extremism. it is also taking advantage of this to try to go against the treaties which stipulate that culture and education are the exclusive competence of the member states and is seeking to strengthen the european union in these areas, although the inability of brussels policies to solve the problems of the european peoples has never been more glaring. in the face of so many ideologies, i have therefore tabled, on behalf of the enl group, an alternative proposal to combat multiculturalism and preserve the capacity of member states to establish their own integration policies, in particular by highlighting national traditions and cultures and by reminding that it is up to newcomers to adapt to the national identity of the host country, and not the other way around.
in writing. ‒ intercultural dialogue is now more than ever an absolute necessity. it is a rather vague concept, however, and it is subject to various trends. it would therefore be necessary to define it politically in order to understand and apply it better. the diversity of our societies requires a greater openness of mind, a greater openness to other cultures. it is partly through education and learning programmes that we will succeed in reducing the distrust that some people have towards another culture. one of the foundations of the european union is unity in diversity. we must make this a reality in europe and beyond. by engaging in dialogue with other cultures and religions, we will learn to live together better and promote the fundamental values of the european union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the role of culture and education in promoting the union's fundamental values. increasing the mobility of young people and teachers, as well as the use of culture in the external development programmes of the european union, should promote mutual understanding and help to combat prejudice or extremism. i felt that it was essential to promote the values of citizenship in all forms and pathways of education and to use european programmes to strengthen the training of teachers, educators and facilitators, so i voted in favour.
in writing. the objectives set out in this report reflect a collective desire to prevent marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. the report also recommends concrete actions to be taken in the field of cultural and educational policies. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the turbulent political climate in europe (refugee crisis, rejection of institutions, withdrawal into oneself, rise of fundamentalism, etc.), this report is essential. it is the indispensable counterpart to more secure considerations in combating the radicalisation of some young people and the drop-out of others. intercultural dialogue, which includes openness to others, understanding and accepting different points of view, mastery of languages, knowledge of other countries and other customs, must become a genuine structural policy of the european union. it involves increased mobility of young people, in the service of building european citizenship. he also has a media education. intercultural dialogue is generous in its expectations and brings new hopes and solidarities to its potential. cultural dialogue is an active agent of deeper integration for greater unity among the peoples of europe.
in writing. ‒ first of all, this report suggests that the union's competence in dealing with culture should be greatly exceeded, since this is a matter for the member states and there is no evidence of any functional deficit on their part which could justify a transfer of competence. furthermore, by choosing to approach the issue of integration from the perspective of multiculturalism, this report is detached from the reality and the serious cultural crises suffered by the european peoples, in particular as a result of mass immigration. i therefore voted against this report which undermines national identities and cultures and progressively weakens the european nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives an inappropriate role to migrants.
in writing. ‒ i cannot resist quoting an anthology of quotes from mrs ward's report, paragraph 7: '[the european parliament] stresses the importance of timely integration and education of segregated communities whose behaviour is contrary to fundamental european values'. but in the meantime we are condemned to organize cohabitation with these segregated communities, which, as i understand it, include all communities except national communities, and whose behaviour is supposedly a consequence of segregation, when it is exactly the opposite. in my country, 40 years of mrs ward's policies have only led to the weakening of our national values in the name of absolute respect for, and even the promotion of, the right to be different. this policy has fostered the aggressive demands of groups who, having the inappropriate behaviour mentioned above, not only do not want to change it, but dream of imposing it on the whole of society. and, finally, it led to the terrible attacks of 2015, which were the result of the hatred of host societies that are constantly denigrated, degraded, blamed. it is distressing that some still have not understood that a multicultural society necessarily becomes a multi-conflict society.
in writing. what responses can be given to the terrorism that is dramatically affecting our countries? these answers are many, but if we want to tackle this issue in depth, we need to develop more dialogue and encourage diversity in our societies. that is why i supported the report by my colleague, mrs julie ward. education is a fundamental element in promoting social inclusion. in the face of hate speech and fear of foreigners, we oppose real solutions that involve significant investments against intolerance and marginalization. citizenship education, youth mobility, alternative teacher training, media education are all useful tools to break the impasse in which we find ourselves today, and this must be accompanied by adequate funding and be in line with the challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seems to me that the news is a sign of the failure of multiculturalism. this report proposes to continue along this path. with my colleagues from the national front, we believe that it is important to defend our identity, our values and our roots and to give priority to the cultural diversity of the member states and not to create, ex nihilo, a global culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ward report, which aims to promote intercultural dialogue in society to foster a better anchoring of the values of the european union. the aim is to make europeans active citizens who are aware of the union's values and committed to defending them. education and training are thus placed at the forefront of this objective. i also welcome the fact that art, sport and volunteering are also considered as ways of participating in civic life and fostering dialogue. finally, the report advocates the integration of culture into the union's external policies when they touch on fundamental european values and into development policy, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to promote intercultural dialogue in order to better anchor the values of the european union in society. the report recommends, in particular, support for human rights organisations to prevent and tackle extremism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the role of 'intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the union's fundamental values'. the original text by the socialist mep julie ward is an apology for multiculturalism and a disregard for the european treaties, which provide that education and culture remain the exclusive competence of the member states. the enf group therefore proposed an alternative motion to emphasise the sovereignty of the member states in matters of culture and education, to highlight the different national cultures and identities, in particular to combat the idea of standardising national cultures in favour of a 'global culture', and to value civic education and the need for each citizen to integrate into the culture of the country in which he lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it attempts to take culture and education out of the competence of the member states and turn them into instruments for promoting multiculturalism. he also poured into evangelicalism by saying that migrants can bring a lot to european culture. neither the attacks in paris, nor the anarchy in calais, nor the sexual assaults in cologne seem to shake this irrational certainty.
in writing. ‒ we were faced with a very ideological text, in line with the crazy policy pursued by the union on immigration. this report - by a socialist mep - called for the promotion of multiculturalism as a solution to integration problems. it also proposed to further deconstruct the competence of the member states in cultural matters by re-assigning this competence exclusively to the european union. denial of reality, blind angelism about migrants, fight against discrimination as the main cause of radicalization and extremism... all the current intellectual drift on the migrant crisis is reflected in this report, which i therefore voted against.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against this report. this particularly damaging text seeks to integrate the cultural dimension as a tool of the union's external policy, which would de facto make it a competence of brussels, whereas the treaties themselves make it a competence of the member states. worse, the text goes further by advocating that migrants are a boon to europe, because they bring a different culture. perhaps the people of cologne do not agree...
in writing. ‒ following the attacks in france last year, european education ministers proposed a text against 'marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation'. the european parliament at least reminds us that such good words require means. he calls for increased public investment in education to truly enable "civic education, inclusion and social justice" in our schools. the root causes of the attacks will remain unquestioned. "radicalization" would be an "unforeseen and unpredictable consequence of a series of transformations". the text, which is based on a purely communitarian and essentialist view, absurdly contrasts "host communities", "religious communities" and "secular communities". under the veneer of good intentions, there is the adherence to the theory of the clash of civilizations, from which the s&ds derive the idea of a "dialogue of cultures" that is as ridiculous as it is harmful. i welcome the commitment to more public spending on education, but i cannot bring myself to support a text that completely ignores the real international and geopolitical causes of the attacks of january and november 2015. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ while the news is showing the failure of a multicultural world, this report proposes to continue on this high-speed path. since it's not working, let's speed up the process! it is worth recalling the problems of integration associated with successive waves of immigration. it's a multi-conflict world that triumphs. is it necessary to recall that cultural policy remains, according to the treaties, a prerogative of the states? once again, the european union is interfering in national politics by imposing an ideology and by wishing to create a sense of common belonging in such a vast territory, within which cultural barriers are far from being overcome, let alone language barriers. the question is also how to orientate the curricula. one of them is to make them "accessible to refugee children". we are proposing integration through assimilation to our national values. the report, which is totally contradictory, affirms a desire to integrate cultural diversity, but goes a few lines further to "take into consideration" different types of communitarianism. on the contrary, we believe it is important to defend our identity, our values and our roots, and to give priority to the cultural diversity of the states rather than creating, ex nihilo, a global culture. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report by the socialist mep julie ward calls for a european-wide grid of reading of integration problems by choosing the promotion of multiculturalism as the solution to this problem. the text proposes to integrate the cultural dimension as a tool of the eu's external policy, thereby seeking to make it an exclusive competence of the european union even though the treaties make it a competence of the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. finally, the text is based on the conviction that migrants can make a major contribution to the cultures of the member states, migration being an integral part of their cultural heritage. this ideological text calls for a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ this ward report aims to promote multiculturalism as a solution to integration problems. this text is an example of denial of reality, since it proposes to integrate the cultural dimension into the eu's external policy and to make it an exclusive competence of the european union, which is contrary to eu primary law. states are encouraged to promote intercultural dialogue to combat discrimination and racism... the reporter, who is the icing on the cake, firmly believes that migrants are a source of cultural enrichment. this text does not fit in well with the recent events in cologne and other german cities. i think that culture and education should remain the exclusive competence of sovereign states, as should integration policy, but also that this report is absolutely shameful, since a multicultural society can only be a multiconflict society, so i have of course voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to promote intercultural dialogue in society to foster a better anchoring of the values of the european union. the aim is to make europeans active citizens who are aware of the union's values and committed to defending them. education and training are thus placed at the forefront of this objective. art, sport and volunteering are also seen as ways of participating in civic life and fostering dialogue. i have in particular endorsed the provisions which advocate the integration of culture into the union's external policies when they touch on the fundamental values of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on intercultural dialogue, which stresses the importance of promoting a better dissemination of the values of the european union and supporting the role of education, training, the arts, sport and volunteering.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which promotes cultural and intercultural dialogue as a tool for democratic participation, the development of civic education and social integration to encourage a sense of common belonging and to avoid the drift towards radicalisation and racism. the report calls for increased public investment in education and stresses the essential role of teachers in stimulating a european consciousness among young people. the report also calls on eu member states to cooperate more to make learning and schooling accessible to refugee children, and to ensure the integration of migrant students in europe.
in writing. ‒ in total denial of reality, the text proposes to integrate the cultural dimension as a tool of the union's external policy - thereby seeking to make it an exclusive competence of the european union, even though the treaties make it a competence of the member states. the latter are also called upon to pursue a proactive policy of promoting intercultural dialogue in order to combat all forms of discrimination and racism, which are the real sources of radicalisation and extremism. finally, the text is based on the conviction that migrants can make a major contribution to the cultures of the member states, migration being an integral part of their cultural heritage. this report is just another barrage of propaganda that has nothing to do with reality. i have, of course, decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on promoting intercultural dialogue, as it aims to promote a better anchoring of the values of the european union in society. i am sincerely convinced that the defence of european values requires a consciousness on the part of its citizens. this report encourages every european to become an active citizen through education and training.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to increase the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the union's fundamental values. these levers, which develop openness and reflection, are a useful tool in dealing with the challenges facing our european and global societies, such as globalisation, migration, religious or intercultural conflicts, the rise of radicalism and extremism. the house therefore calls for the work started in 2008 during the european year of intercultural dialogue to be continued in order to develop with stakeholders a clear and updated political definition of intercultural dialogue. all work must be based on a solid foundation, which is what such a definition will bring. secondly, the existing european financial instruments, programmes and initiatives in the union must be used to the full. i am thinking, for example, of the erasmus+ programme, but also of the 'europe for citizens' and 'creative europe' programmes. these programmes exist, and we must take full advantage of them. finally, we call for culture to be systematically integrated into development projects and programmes. i think these proposals are sound and that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for the report by julie ward. while europe has faced dramatic events and extreme violence in recent months, this report strongly affirms the values of tolerance, pluralism and inclusive democratic participation of the european union. it follows the commitment of the member states on 17 march 2015 to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in education. indeed, it is the education of young people that prepares the future of the continent and the construction of a pluralistic and peaceful society. this report calls for a clear definition of intercultural dialogue and for it to be more fully integrated into our educational programmes. it advocates quality education, guaranteeing social equality and respect for cultural diversity. it also channels the necessary support from europe, through its programmes such as europe for citizens or erasmus+, to civic and social inclusion and citizens' mobility. finally, it recognises the essential role of ngos, civil, civic, sporting and cultural associations, as well as of the nict, in the dialogue between cultures and within societies.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which recalls that genuine intercultural and interfaith dialogue fosters understanding and respect between cultures and increases diversity and respect for democracy, freedom and human rights. the text also encourages the development of the use of intercultural dialogue in external relations and recalls the importance of culture and education in promoting the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ a very ideological report by the socialist mep julie ward, which calls for a european-wide reading of integration problems by promoting multiculturalism. in total denial of reality, the text proposes to integrate the cultural dimension as a tool of the union's external policy, thereby seeking to make it an exclusive competence of the european union, even though the treaties make it a competence of the member states. the latter are also called upon to pursue a proactive policy of promoting intercultural dialogue in order to combat all forms of discrimination and racism, which are the real sources of radicalisation and extremism. finally, the text is based on the conviction that migrants can make a major contribution to the cultures of the member states, migration being an integral part of their cultural heritage. a very ideological text which can only motivate my opposition. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ following the 2015 attacks, the european parliament's committee on culture and education wanted to implement a report on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education. strengthening intercultural dialogue and recalling the fundamental values of justice, freedom, equality, tolerance, democracy and non-discrimination is indeed a necessity in the light of the policies that are primarily security-oriented, even discriminatory, and are implemented, particularly in france. this report seeks to define concepts from different works and studies and stresses the need for multidimensional policies and the inclusion of all actors. it is based in particular on respect for the charter of fundamental rights. this report is paved with good intentions, but beyond some measures which i could criticise, it is moving in the right direction. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which presents the balance sheet and challenges of european regulation of financial services. the text stresses the need to harmonise these increasingly complex rules and supports the proposal for a european public rating agency for sovereign debt. while i support these measures, i am strongly opposed to the banking union which would result from the proposal to break the link between sovereign states and banks at national level. moreover, this text merely takes stock of the regulations and does not make any new and concrete proposals.
in writing. ‒ the text provides few legal elements and no concrete proposals. it generally takes over the commission's communications. two main aspects can be supported: concern about the complexity and abundance of european regulation, and the project for a european and public rating agency on sovereign debts. but we do not support the idea of breaking the link between the member states and their national banks, i.e. the completion of the banking union. the reforms initiated by commissioner hill in the run-up to the cmu also raise questions about their purpose, the influence of american market players on europe. that's why i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ many legislative initiatives in the area of eu financial services have been launched in recent years with a view to restoring financial stability and implementing the lessons learned from the crisis. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a thorough assessment of the effects of the financial services framework is necessary. through the cumulative impact assessment and regular monitoring of these legislative initiatives, the application of the financial services texts should be less complex, more understandable and better adapted to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ this text is only an agreed statement on the reforms in progress in financial regulation. the rapporteur is careful not to mention the irritating topics such as the separation of banks or the issue of securitisation. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report on eu regulation of financial services, which takes stock of it and sets out the issues, is actually a rather hollow text. he's just giving a tour of the place without really making any new proposals. one can support the increasing complexity of regulation or the creation of a european public rating agency for sovereign debts (to avoid the us agencies). i cannot, however, agree with the need to break the link between sovereign states and banks at national level, i.e. to complete the banking union. i remain reserved on the subject of capital markets union, particularly on securitisation and on the question of effective access for smes to the markets. as regards the cmu, i fear that the proposed reforms will ultimately benefit only the american players who dominate the union from london. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report presents few new proposals. while he highlights the increasing complexity of regulation and suggests the creation of a european credit rating agency, which i would possibly agree with, he also advocates the establishment of the banking union, the breaking of the link between states and banks at national level, and the extremely dangerous principle of securitisation. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 financial crisis highlighted many dysfunctions in the regulation of market activities. it is in this context that this report takes stock of and challenges to financial services regulation. the rapporteur rightly expresses serious concern about the complexity of national regulations and advocates harmonisation of the different laws governing this sector of activity. we also agree with him on the idea of creating a public agency for the rating of sovereign debts. on the other hand, we believe that banking union will be detrimental to the member states, since it will prevent them from coming to the rescue of their banking sector should it encounter serious financial difficulties, particularly in terms of capitalisation. we believe that this new legislative framework is dangerous for savers. moreover, the report does not address the issue of the separation of deposit banks from commercial banks, which is the only effective solution to protect savers from the speculative activities of certain financial institutions. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the balance sheet and the issues of the eu regulation on financial services. the economic and financial crisis that emerged in 2008 led to the necessary regulation of the european financial sector. most of the european legislation in this area is implemented in whole or in part by the member states. it is therefore appropriate to examine their effectiveness and relevance. the report calls on the commission to carry out this first evaluation by the end of 2016 and to undertake this exercise regularly. it is in the interests of consumers, investors and businesses to have a regulatory framework in place that protects them from the drift we experienced before and during the crisis. however, such regulation must be proportionate and must not stifle the financial sector, which is essential for the economic recovery of the union.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report takes stock of the first of a series of legislative texts produced by the european institutions in the field of financial services following the financial and economic crisis of 2007/2008. in its preamble, the european parliament recalls that financial stability, consumer protection and the union's competitiveness in the global financial sector must remain the political priorities in this area. he suggests that more attention should be paid to risk studies. i also agree with the analysis that the member states have a major responsibility in implementing european decisions. the report calls on the european commission to finalise its evaluation of the measures by the end of 2016 and proposes to look at the economic impacts of the measures taken since 2007/2008 as well as the opportunities that exist to support the real economy, such as access to loans for smes and citizens. considering that such a high-quality review is necessary in order to adjust the rules without reopening the basic texts and plunging economic actors into uncertainty which would only weaken them, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported this report, which sets out the european parliament's recommendations for improving european regulation in the field of financial services. these recommendations will make it possible to put in place the main components of a capital markets union at european level, and thus strengthen consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ despite good intentions, such as improving and harmonising complex and difficult to read banking regulations, this report has a rather poor track record. it does not devote enough attention to the substantive issues that should be addressed, in order to correct the errors that caused the last financial crisis or to allow more efficient financing of the economy, in particular through access to financial markets for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). on the contrary, banking union is ultimately supported; but this is a project which we cannot accept. i did not want to endorse this lack of ambition and pragmatism and therefore abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because it does not oppose the banking union.
in writing. - i find mr balz's report rather dull and conventional. it is true that at the level of the european union, efforts have been made to bring some order to a financial system whose follies and errors have been responsible for a serious, deep crisis, and from which we have not yet emerged, whatever one may say. but sometimes this regulation has stopped in the middle, as for example with hedge funds or the parallel banking system. at the same time, it became extremely complex, with a multiplicity of delegated acts and executions. but the report is also a failure. despite massive aid or the european central bank's quantitative easing policy, banks still do not play the role of financing the real economy. the solution that this parliament is calling for is the creation of a capital markets union, which in fact means that this financing will be done without the banks and with the markets, which have learned nothing from the crisis. i doubt that smes, which provide the bulk of employment in europe, will find their way into it. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report provides little in the way of legal elements and concrete proposals. the report generally contains the commission's communications. we can agree with him on two main points: concern about the complexity and abundance of european regulation, and the project for a european and public rating agency for sovereign debts. we are opposed to the idea of breaking the link between the member states and their national banks, i.e. the completion of the banking union. the reforms initiated by commissioner hill in the run-up to the cmu also raise questions about their purpose, the influence of american market players on europe. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague burkhard balz on the balance sheet and challenges of european regulation of financial services. in the wake of the financial crisis, many laws in this area have emerged, sometimes in scattered order. the report therefore aims to provide an overview of the situation with a view to achieving a more effective regulatory framework. i welcome the emphasis in the report on financial stability and consumer protection. the competitiveness of the european financial sector and the quality of european legislation are key issues in the international regulation of financial services. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i voted for, was intended to take stock of european financial regulation following the 2007/2008 crisis. it stressed the need to adopt a global view of such regulation to encourage the financial sector to serve the financing needs of the real economy, and also supported the creation of a european public rating agency in order not to be subject only to the rating of the three major us agencies.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on capital markets supports the current guidelines on the supervision of financial flows, their dynamisation through securitisation and the creation of a large european capital market, without raising the question of access to productive credit. the resolution before us is based on the supposed advantages of the 'union of capital markets' (market fluidity, harmonization of rates for the benefit of the countries of the south). but this union of capital is taking place for the time being without an adequate european resolution fund because of german opposition. the part on banking supervision supports the ecb's takeover of european supervision, without raising the question of the lack of democratic control over this key institution. finally, although the european central bank has injected hundreds of billions of euros into european financial circuits through its debt-buying programme, these funds are still blocked by banks and financial players, who prefer to keep them on the stock exchange. it is good that there is a real problem of productive credit in the european union and of access to it, but this text does not address this fundamental problem at all. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ like the other front national meps, i abstained on the report on the balance sheet and the challenges of eu regulation of financial services. he is also concerned about the increasing complexity of regulation and the need for harmonized, coherent and non-redundant regulation. but we cannot follow him on the need to break the link between sovereign states and banks at national level, i.e. to complete the banking union. it makes no mention of the need for a real banking separation, which is now at a standstill. on capital markets union, we are both in favour of diversifying the means of financing and reserved for securitisation or for real access to markets for most smes, which cannot access markets anyway. in this cmu project, we fear that the reforms pushed by commissioner hill will ultimately benefit only american market players, who can radiate to europe from london.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. it is right that it is concerned about the increasing complexity of financial regulation, but it is persisting in the pursuit of banking union, which i am opposed to.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the record and challenges of european regulation of financial services. it advocated the need to harmonise these regulations, which have become increasingly complex over the years, and supported the creation of a european public rating agency for sovereign debts. while i support these measures, i cannot accept the banking union which would result from the proposal to break the link between sovereign states and national banks. i abstained on this text, which also provides an assessment without any new solution for this regulation.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. we recognize some of his good points, including his concerns about the increasing complexity of regulation, but we cannot accept his idea of breaking the link between member states and banks at national level. we therefore prefer abstention.
in writing. ‒ since the 2008 financial crisis, many legislative initiatives in the area of eu financial services have been launched with a view to restoring financial stability. the report welcomes these measures and the future creation of a 'capital markets union', pretending to believe that such a union will solve investment problems, when the lack of investment is in fact linked to the weakness of demand for business, which stems from the wage and budgetary austerity policies imposed on the countries of the european union. the proposed capital markets union is in fact aimed at changing the european financial system from the current financing model based mainly on bank credit to a model based on market finance. under this model, banks can resell these debt securities as financial securities on the capital markets (securitisation), which allows them to lend out of their risk pocket, while pocketing bank fees. this securitisation was a major contributor to the 2008 financial crisis. i object to this text, which is clearly drafted by the banking lobby.
in writing. ‒ the balz report provides little in the way of legal elements and concrete proposals. the report generally contains the commission's communications. we can agree with him on two main points: concern about the complexity and abundance of european regulation, and the project for a european and public rating agency for sovereign debts. on the other hand, we are opposed to the idea of breaking the link between the member states and their national banks, i.e. the completion of the banking union. the reforms initiated by commissioner hill in the run-up to the cmu also raise questions about their purpose, the influence of american market players on europe. with these various points in mind, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the balz report is a rather hollow text on the challenges of financial regulation since the 2008 crisis and the capital markets union projects. it merely gives an account of the agreed places and of the proposals which follow the trend of the texts proposed by the commission, with few legal elements or new proposals. he is also concerned about the increasing complexity of regulation and the need for harmonized, coherent and non-redundant regulation. but we cannot follow him on the need to break the link between sovereign states and banks at national level, i.e. to complete the banking union. it makes no mention of the need for a real banking separation, which is now at a standstill. on capital markets union, we are both in favour of diversifying the means of financing and reserved for securitisation or for real access to markets for most smes, which cannot access markets anyway. for these reasons, it is preferable to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ the balz report is a set of points and does not bring anything new to the table. it lists the commission's proposals on financial regulation and capital markets union. some positive points are to be noted, such as its concern about the increasing complexity of financial regulation that weighs on the activity, or about the creation of a public rating agency. however, it follows the commission on the need to break the link between states and banks in difficulty by promoting the banking union, the limits of which were seen in italy during the rescue of four local banks. nothing is proposed on the necessary banking separation. on the contrary, we are again being given the opportunity to discuss the capital markets union, which would relaunch securitisation in order to finance smes on the american model. however, smes themselves admit that they would prefer to favour bank financing over securitisation, which in the united states is mainly the responsibility of large public funds. i therefore abstained on this text, which seems very empty and does not add much.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which presents the balance sheet and the challenges of european regulation in the financial services sector. the text recalls the need for harmonisation aimed at simplification and not redundancy and additional complexity. in particular, i supported provisions to prevent legal uncertainty, to avoid regulatory arbitrage, which can lead to high transaction costs.
in writing. ‒ the report on the balance sheet and challenges of the eu financial services regulation calls on the commission to present an assessment of the legislative measures taken to deal with the financial and public debt crisis. i voted in favour of the report in support of the request for an evaluation.
in writing. this report takes stock of the legislative work of the previous legislature on financial services regulation and makes suggestions to the european commission for its new initiative on the capital markets union. i voted against this report which, while welcoming the capital markets union, is too uncritical of past legislation and mistakes and promotes the alleged effectiveness of structural reforms and budgetary policies implemented so far.
in writing. ‒ the balz report is a rather hollow text on the challenges of financial regulation since the 2008 crisis, as well as the capital markets union projects. it merely gives an account of the agreed places and of the proposals which follow the trend of the texts proposed by the commission, with few legal elements or new proposals. i could join him in his concern about the increasing complexity of regulation. but i cannot agree with him on the need to break the link between sovereign states and banks at national level, that is to say to complete the banking union. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the financial crisis of 2007-2008 showed the urgency of reforming the union's financial sector. this report is all the more relevant as it takes stock of the current legislation and sends very concrete messages on areas for improvement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to take stock of the many legislative initiatives in the field of financial services taken by the european union since 2008, when the financial and debt crisis erupted. it is appropriate to assess whether these new financial provisions are adapted to the current challenges. indeed, an assessment of the effects of the financial services framework is essential. i supported this text, which recalls that the current legislation must be applied in all the member states, in order to maintain coherence within the union itself. moving towards a capital markets union must benefit the real economy first and foremost, and must be accompanied by appropriate financial services regulations. the union's priorities in financial services must be financial stability and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ a rather hollow text on the challenges of financial regulation since the 2008 crisis, as well as the capital markets union projects. it merely gives an account of the agreed places and of the proposals which follow the trend of the texts proposed by the commission, with few legal elements or new proposals. he is also concerned about the increasing complexity of regulation and the need for harmonized, coherent and non-redundant regulation. but we cannot follow him on the need to break the link between sovereign states and banks at national level, i.e. to complete the banking union. it makes no mention of the need for a real banking separation, which is now at a standstill. on the capital markets union (which today consists of two texts: the relaunch of securitisation and the simplification of the prospectus directive), we are in favour of diversifying the means of financing, but reserved on securitisation or on the real access to markets of most smes, which cannot access the markets anyway. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the external factors hindering european women's entrepreneurship. in addition to proposing measures that are not of any interest, the text is polluted with misguided demands such as the promotion of gender equality in companies, support for "women with multiple identities" or the establishment of psychological cells for women entrepreneurs. it is therefore a series of measures which contribute to the position of the woman as a victim that is proposed here. the only measure that is of interest is the one on awareness raising during school training, but this is a matter for the member states and not for the european union. i am in favour of gender equality in the world of work, but this very ideological text is of little interest and promotes counterproductive measures, such as equal paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ this report presents a series of measures to increase the representation of women among business leaders, based on the plurality of identities, the questioning of family models, the introduction of quotas for so-called disadvantaged groups... this report may in the end justify harmful measures, so i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ among many uninteresting measures, far-fetched proposals have crept in, such as support for "women with multiple identities" or the demand directly derived from gender ideology to "change the traditional distribution of roles within the family". although this is an own-initiative report with no legislative impact, i voted against this text which risks justifying counterproductive measures such as non-transferable paternity leave, which would de facto reduce maternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is clear that the fight against youth unemployment must be the main thrust of any employment policy. but let's not get our hopes up. the triviality and truths of la palisse which abound in this report will not provide an answer to the challenge of youth unemployment, which today reaches staggering proportions in countries like spain. europe cannot help it. and the litany of reports that have been written on the subject will not help either. unfortunately, we can see that non-eu countries - switzerland and norway, for example - are doing better than our member states in this area. we should ask ourselves why. it is up to the states to make the necessary efforts to stimulate youth employment. by a proactive policy in favour of smes, which are the biggest job creators. the commission has also proposed a reduction in the number of staff and a training policy.
in writing. ‒ this report on the factors hindering female entrepreneurship should suggest positions for women to be more represented among business leaders. this text is clearly intrusive and victimizing towards women. it proposes, for example, to promote gender equality in business, to support 'women with multiple identities', to distribute household chores equitably or to change the usual roles in families. the only interesting suggestion is outside the union's competence (awareness raising during school training) and i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on external factors hindering european women's entrepreneurship. indeed, this report contains many uninteresting measures and proposals that i cannot support: promoting gender equality in business, supporting in particular 'women with multiple identities', 'ensuring a proper distribution of household tasks' and 'changing the traditional distribution of roles within the family'.
in writing. ‒ in this text, the rapporteur proposes ways of thinking about how to ensure that women are better represented among business leaders. the report promotes gender equality in business, calls for the proper distribution of household tasks in households, advocates the introduction of women's quotas and the creation of psychological support cells for women entrepreneurs. these proposals illustrate the growing disconnect between the technocrats in brussels and the real concerns of women in the member states of the union. these proposals are completely counterproductive, as is the equal and non-transferable paternity leave, which will help to drastically reduce maternity leave. the only valid suggestion, namely the introduction of entrepreneurship in school curricula, is outside the union's competence. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ one of the european union's economic and social priorities is to stimulate entrepreneurship. this is part of the strategy of the three e's: jobs, enterprise and entrepreneurship. the european union is lagging behind the united states and china in this area. in this context, women's entrepreneurship requires special attention. in europe, it is mainly men who are starting up businesses. this situation must be remedied by creating incentives adapted to the case of women. equality between men and women in terms of professional careers and salaries must become a reality. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is part of the european union's strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth (europe 2020) and the drive to promote entrepreneurship to boost job creation. in this context, female entrepreneurship deserves particular attention, as this report raises the issue of indirect discrimination against women when setting up their own businesses. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i am concerned about the place of women in the world of work. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which aims to promote female entrepreneurship in the union, in particular through quotas in the allocation of european funds.
‒ 60% of university graduates in europe are women. however, they remain a very large minority in senior positions and represent only 31% of entrepreneurs. at a time when the european union is experiencing a serious economic crisis, women entrepreneurs represent an exceptional potential for creating growth and jobs. it is therefore necessary to support women in setting up businesses and in developing their skills, and more generally to support them in their economic and professional projects. the european union has a concrete role to play, in particular by promoting the range of european funding for entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ women's entrepreneurship deserves special attention: equal economic independence is still not a reality in the european union and the employment rate of women is below the target set in the europe 2020 strategy. that is why i voted in favour of the matera report on the external factors that hinder women's entrepreneurship. i would like to draw particular attention to the financing needs of women entrepreneurs and raise the issue of indirect discrimination against women when they start their own businesses. i regret, however, the introduction of gender quotas for all forms of targeted aid to disadvantaged and underrepresented groups. it is not the role of the european parliament to introduce such quotas, but that of each member state, which will take more specific account of domestic needs.
in writing. ‒ this report is utopian and guardianist in that it promotes a distorted view of human relations and identity, by associating gender with it. i remain convinced that the representation of women, in this case in the world of work, is not determined by rules and quotas that distort the dynamics of merit and the fair selection of talent. more seriously, this report seeks to promote changes or behaviour specific to the family structure, in which the union has no legitimacy to act. i voted against this report, which is both ideological and intrusive, because i stand by the family and defend freedom.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it contains recommendations which have nothing to do with the substance of the subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes ways of increasing the representation of women among business leaders. the commission has also proposed a number of measures which we consider to be totally inappropriate, such as the introduction of multiple identities, the questioning of family models and the introduction of quotas for so-called disadvantaged groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague barbara matera on women's entrepreneurship in europe. my political group, the epp, strongly supports entrepreneurship, and therefore women's entrepreneurship, as a way of reconnecting with growth and employment. while equal employment rates and economic independence are not yet achieved, i believe it is all the more important to identify the barriers women face when starting a business, so that we can break them down or overcome them. finally, i welcome the report's emphasis on social entrepreneurship and its better understanding, which should promote gender equality. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aimed to remove the obstacles to female entrepreneurship, which today represents only 31% of entrepreneurs in europe, as part of the european union's strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth (europe 2020). the report encourages member states to put in place a concrete strategy to promote entrepreneurship among women.
in writing. ‒ i voted, like a very large majority of my fellow meps, for the report by my colleague barbara matera on the external factors hindering european women's entrepreneurship. indeed, while female entrepreneurship is one of our priorities in our employment strategy, too few women actually benefit from it: only 30% of entrepreneurs are women. i therefore wished, through this vote, to denounce all the difficulties faced by women entrepreneurs in seeking external funding and the obstacles to the development of women entrepreneurship. we, the members of the european parliament, have clearly called for the development of a genuine culture of entrepreneurship among girls and boys, women and men, through the intensification of exchanges of good practice to support women who wish to start a business.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on external factors hindering european women's entrepreneurship. among the many uninteresting measures, purely ideological proposals have crept in: promoting gender equality in enterprises, supporting in particular 'women with multiple identities', ensuring the proper distribution of household tasks and 'changing the traditional distribution of roles within the family', setting up quotas for women for aid to disadvantaged groups, setting up 'psychological support' units for women entrepreneurs... this own-initiative report, which has no legislative impact, may however justify counterproductive measures such as equal and non-transferable paternity leave (which, for obvious economic reasons, could only lead to a reduction in maternity leave). the few common sense suggestions, such as introducing entrepreneurship in school education, are not within the union's competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this crazy report, which welcomes 'women with multiple identities' (?), and yet gives in to the punchlines about the supposed weakness of women by advocating the setting up of 'psychological support' cells to help women entrepreneurs 'build their confidence'!
in writing. ‒ this report, which was supposedly benevolent, was nevertheless full of absurd, communitarian and private-sector demands: "psychological support" for women entrepreneurs, promotion of gender equality, support for "women with multiple identities", distribution of household tasks, even "change in the traditional distribution of roles within the family"! moreover, while this own-initiative report has no legislative impact, it would nevertheless justify counterproductive measures such as equal and non-transferable paternity leave (the main consequence of which would be the reduction of maternity leave). finally, to protest once again against the union's encroachment on the competences of the member states, and in this case even on those of the family itself, i had no choice but to oppose this text.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this text, which is neither interesting nor has any legislative impact, could be used as a justification for the adoption of counterproductive measures to promote gender equality in companies, to support women with "multiple identities", to rebalance household tasks, etc. it envisages setting up quotas for women in aid to disadvantaged groups, 'psychological support' units for women entrepreneurs... worse, the few interesting suggestions in this text do not even fall within the union's competence! i therefore oppose it.
in writing. ‒ women are underrepresented in entrepreneurship (31%), particularly in traditionally male sectors such as the btp. the report suggests that more should be done to tackle discrimination in access to funding and the stereotypes that discourage women and girls from pursuing scientific or technological careers. but it is in line with the current european logic to present the 'all entrepreneurial' as the panacea for the revival of growth and jobs in europe. the role of the public sector in job creation is systematically ignored. the same applies to the impact of austerity policies on sme order books. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to suggest ways of increasing the representation of women among business leaders. in the end, this is an interesting thought. on the other hand, several measures are proposed which we consider to be totally inappropriate, concerning the plurality of identities, the questioning of family models, the introduction of quotas for so-called disadvantaged groups... this report may in time justify harmful measures, and i therefore oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the report is to suggest ways in which women can be more represented among business leaders. among many measures of little interest, corrupt proposals have crept in: promoting gender equality in enterprises, supporting in particular 'women with multiple identities', ensuring the proper distribution of household tasks and 'changing the traditional distribution of roles within the family', setting up 'psychological support' units for women entrepreneurs... this own-initiative report may, however, justify counterproductive measures such as equal and non-transferable paternity leave (which, for obvious economic reasons, could only lead to a reduction in maternity leave). the few common sense suggestions, such as introducing entrepreneurship in school education, are not within the union's competence. so he calls for a no vote.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to suggest ways to increase the representation of women among business leaders. in addition to the measures of little interest presented, there are others that are much more problematic such as promoting gender equality in enterprises, supporting women with 'multiple identities', ensuring the proper distribution of household tasks and 'changing the traditional distribution of roles within the family', etc. while it is an own-initiative report with no normative scope (which is normal since it encroaches on the competences of the member states), it promotes counterproductive proposals such as equal and non-transferable paternity leave (which for obvious economic reasons could only lead to a reduction in maternity leave). the few common sense recommendations, such as introducing entrepreneurship in school education, are not within the european union's remit. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on external factors hindering women's entrepreneurship. in europe, the employment rate for women was 59.6% in 2014, well below the 75% target set in the europe 2020 strategy and above all the employment rate for men of 70.1%. in this context, women's entrepreneurship must be developed and, as this text calls for, it must benefit from commission initiatives, particularly in terms of financial support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague barbara matera on the external factors hindering female entrepreneurship in europe. the promotion of women's entrepreneurship is one of the main priorities of my epp group. it is widely recognised that to boost growth in europe and create new jobs, the european union needs more entrepreneurs and its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (europe 2020) explicitly states that more concrete initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship. women's entrepreneurship deserves particular attention in this context, as equal economic independence is still not a reality in the european union and the employment rate of women, at 59.6% in 2014 at eu-28 level, is still below the europe 2020 target of 75% and the employment rate of men (70.1%). the rapporteur, in support of this report, intends to draw particular attention to the financing needs of women entrepreneurs and to raise the issue of indirect discrimination against women when setting up their own businesses.
in writing. ‒ the issue of women's entrepreneurship is of paramount importance to the epp group, as much as it is to me. i therefore supported a report on equal economic independence and social entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report, which has no legislative impact, may justify counterproductive measures such as equal and non-transferable paternity leave (which, for obvious economic reasons, could only lead to a reduction in maternity leave). it is very intrusive in the privacy of citizens by wanting to dictate to them the behaviour it deems appropriate. the few common sense suggestions, such as introducing entrepreneurship in school education, are not within the union's competence. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of factors external to european women's entrepreneurship, as it deserves special attention. in order to boost growth in europe and create new jobs, the european union needs more entrepreneurs, both men and women. however, we must not fall into the trap of caricature. for the sake of debate and the message we wish to convey. that is why i have opposed or abstained on a number of very dogmatic passages.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which seeks to put an end to the factors hindering the development of women's entrepreneurship in the union. these measures concern in particular the conditions for achieving a better work-life balance, the creation of networks promoting female entrepreneurship, improving access to finance and promoting entrepreneurship in education and training. i would like to mention two important points in this context. on the one hand, the entrepreneurial spirit must be encouraged as it brings benefits to the individual as well as to the community in which it operates. on the other hand, women represented only 31% of entrepreneurs in the union in 2012, which is far too low. the conditions for the development of women's entrepreneurship and the unlocking of its potential should therefore be created as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently focusing on boosting growth and employment; to do this, the union needs more entrepreneurs. the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth explicitly indicates that more concrete initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship. it is important to focus on female entrepreneurship, in particular as the employment rate of women, at 59,6% in 2014 at union level, is well below the target set in the europe 2020 strategy. the text thus draws attention to the financing needs of women entrepreneurs and raises the question of indirect discrimination against women in setting up businesses. it is therefore important to develop actions to exploit the full potential of women entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ among many uninteresting measures, corrupt proposals have crept in: - to promote gender equality in companies, - to support in particular 'women with multiple identities', - to ensure the proper distribution of household tasks and 'change the traditional distribution of roles within the family', - to set up quotas for women for aid to disadvantaged groups, - to set up 'psychological support' cells for women entrepreneurs... this report, which has no legislative impact, may justify counterproductive measures such as equal and non-transferable paternity leave (which, for obvious economic reasons, could only lead to a reduction in maternity leave). the few common sense suggestions, such as introducing entrepreneurship in school education, are not within the union's competence. i therefore vote against.
‒ women are still too absent from the business world, accounting for only 31% of jobs in this sector. so act. the report aims to promote the development of women's entrepreneurship by improving their environment through the development of childcare services and paternity leave. the fight against stereotypes affecting career development is presented as a priority, as is the fight against discrimination in access to bank loans. i can only encourage this type of initiative, which applies to all matters relating to equality, and in particular to the equality of women and men in the workplace. i would add that the issue of childcare is a parental problem and not just a women's problem. entrepreneurship as the only solution to reduce unemployment in europe is for me only a step forward, but it should not make us forget that other policies are possible in the european union. thus, the creation of public sector jobs and the impact of austerity policies on sme order books are, as it were, absent from this report. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on skills development policies to combat youth unemployment, despite the fact that it was originally a good initiative in a context of increased unemployment among young people in the labour force. the text proposed measures to promote skills rather than qualifications, to encourage guidance from an early age and to develop greater support for apprenticeships. while youth employment is indeed a priority, the measures discussed here remain very vague and hardly adaptable to the current economic situation in view of the budgetary cuts in the member states. moreover, these youth employment policies must be concentrated at regional and local level and not at european level. finally, all the enf amendments were rejected and ideological demands such as those on gender theory and aid for migrants were infiltrated. furthermore, the emphasis on youth entrepreneurship in this text, which seems complicated in the current economic context, suggests a desire to clumsily lower unemployment figures.
in writing. ‒ the vague proposals in this report concern apprenticeships, flexibility in curricula, alternance training, etc. these proposals are paradoxical in view of the budgetary constraints imposed on the member states. in addition, by emphasizing skills rather than diplomas, the report itself appears to be an admission of the failure of national education systems. moreover, it seems much more appropriate that policies for the integration of young people should be pursued as a priority at regional and local level, rather than at european level. finally, the amendments in committee have inserted inappropriate and dangerous notions, such as the integration of migrants and the application of gender theory. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ with almost 5 million unemployed, the employment rate for young people in the european union remains at a very worrying level. this situation represents a serious threat to the social cohesion and economic development of the union. i could only vote in favour of this report because there is an urgent need to improve the employability of young people. that is why i am strongly committed to european mobility and apprenticeship, which, by combining them, offers a royal road to employment for young europeans. we need to harness the potential of learning to create links between business and higher education institutions. i believe that vocational training provides young europeans with the skills they need for successful integration into the labour market and facilitates the transition from training to the labour market.
in writing. - gender theory, help for the sacrosanct "migrants"... and it claims to fight youth unemployment?
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is clear that the fight against youth unemployment must be the main thrust of any employment policy. but let's not get our hopes up. the triviality and truths of la palisse which abound in this report will not provide an answer to the challenge of youth unemployment, which today reaches staggering proportions in countries like spain. europe cannot help it. and the litany of reports that have been written on the subject will not help either. unfortunately, we can see that non-eu countries - switzerland and norway, for example - are doing better than our member states in this area. we should ask ourselves why. it is up to the states to make the necessary efforts to stimulate youth employment. by a proactive policy in favour of smes, which are the biggest job creators. the commission has also proposed a reduction in the number of staff and a training policy.
in writing. ‒ this report to combat youth unemployment actually proposes to no longer promote diplomas but instead the enhancement of skills. this is a reflection of the failure of national and internal education systems. however, interesting possibilities are being considered, such as promoting alternating or apprenticeship, anticipating the skills needs of promising sectors or encouraging guidance from an early age. but there are no practical or concrete aspects, just proposals. on the other hand, in a context of austerity as desired by the union, i am rather of the opinion that employment policies must be conducted at regional and local rather than european level. the idea of developing youth entrepreneurship is certainly laudable, but nothing concrete is proposed and it comes back regularly, as if to keep young people busy. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ most of the measures proposed in this report are difficult to implement in the present context, where member states are forced to adopt tight budgets. it is also clear that policies for the integration of young people must be pursued primarily at regional and local level and not at european level. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report attempts to provide solutions to the structural unemployment of young people. the central idea of the text is to promote the development of skills rather than diplomas, which reflects the failure of the education systems in the member states of the european union. the approaches proposed in this text are to promote apprenticeship and alternance training from an early age. in addition, the report promotes entrepreneurial initiatives for young graduates. the rapporteur also wants to adapt training to the needs of enterprises. while these ideas are sound, we believe that the member states of the union are best placed to solve structural unemployment among 18-25 year olds. promoting entrepreneurship, as advocated in this report, can only be effective if it is not used as a pretext to remove the unemployed from national statistics. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis of 2008 had a devastating impact on employment in the european union and worldwide. unemployment affects a great deal of our citizens and the progress made in reducing the unemployment rate is not fast enough or effective enough. young people are the first victims of this conflict. in the european union, 4.5 million young people aged 15 to 25 are unemployed and more than 7 million are not in employment or studying. this situation cannot continue. on the one hand, we must implement the policies for growth, competitiveness and job creation that we have developed at european level, and on the other, the member states must put in place effective social policies. i would remind you that many european funds can be used to help young people find employment and that they must therefore be used to the full in this respect. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is part of the policy to promote skills development to combat youth unemployment. i believe that our education system should be more responsive to the needs of the labour market. young people are a very receptive audience to new technologies that are revolutionizing our ways of living, producing and consuming. a clear example is the ability to use and understand digital media, the internet or social networks. i am convinced that these assets are a real added value for a company. improving the employability of young people therefore requires the development of useful skills, through education and, let us not forget, continuing vocational training. business creation and self-employment are also part of the solutions. i fully share the objectives of this report and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i supported this report, which aims to adapt education systems to the needs of the labour market in order to combat youth unemployment in the european union. the current situation, with 4.5 million young people aged 15 to 24 currently unemployed in europe, calls for urgent and concrete action.
in writing. ‒ skills development policies to combat youth unemployment youth unemployment in europe has exploded since 2008, from 14.7% to 21.4% today, representing 4.5 million young people aged 15-24. although employment is primarily the responsibility of the member states of the union, there is an urgent need to combine all efforts and initiatives aimed at combating youth unemployment and reducing the number of those who have dropped out of school. several areas are concerned: the certification of diplomas, the validation of learning gains during periods spent abroad, the harmonisation of national regulations for apprenticeships and insurance schemes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the plura report on policies for skills development to combat youth unemployment. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which stresses that education systems should be more flexible to provide for the development of knowledge and skills at all stages of the working life, in order to meet the needs of the labour market and to cope with a still worrying rate of youth unemployment. i also believe that business creation and self-employment are other ways of participating in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ it is a balanced and comprehensive report on the issue of youth unemployment and how to successfully promote effective policies for the next generation. firstly, there is the observation of an inadequacy between the educational and vocational training offered and the realities of the labour market. there is also the quality of guidance systems in the different member states which is criticised. the report also highlights the lack of foresight on the jobs of the future when cooperation between business leaders, professional sectors and public authorities - particularly at the level of the employment pools - should have been organised and systemised to prepare young people for the jobs of tomorrow. the issue of youth entrepreneurship is not forgotten in the context of possible outlets. finally, there is the question of the digital dimension. if not all jobs will fall within this sector, all will be transformed into it. this increase in responsibility must be a priority in the political agenda.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is a dramatic phenomenon for the vitality of european nations and is becoming a structural element of our economies. however, this report does not address the root causes of the problem and does not propose reform of the union's economic frameworks which have a major influence on macroeconomic trends. worse, it attempts to insert harmful and unrealistic elements, such as gender theory, and seeks to favour migrants. finally, the european union is not designed to change the parameters of labour markets and member states. any strengthening of the internal market would be a serious factor in social imbalances. regrettably, the rapporteur and my colleagues in this house have not been clear on this matter, and i have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because the proposals it contains are, on the whole, too vague.
in writing. how can we better facilitate the integration into the labour market of the five million unemployed young people aged 15-24 in the union and the seven million young europeans who are not in employment, education or training? in response to this question, the european parliament calls for an approach that focuses more on vocational education, non-formal and innovative learning, workplace training, traineeships and mobility. i therefore supported this own-initiative report, which is really a pragmatic approach that takes account of the evolution of the labour market. more bridges need to be created between an educational world in which new teaching methods need to be introduced and the world of the enterprise, with the support of all levels of public authorities. bringing schools and businesses closer together can certainly help to strengthen key skills (adaptability, learning to learn, initiative, entrepreneurship and communication), and it is therefore in our interest to encourage these new practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the measures it proposes on apprenticeships are a paradox in relation to the budgetary constraints imposed on member states. in addition, by emphasizing skills rather than diplomas, the report itself appears to be an admission of the failure of national education systems. in addition, it seems much more appropriate that policies for the integration of young people should be pursued as a priority at regional and local level, rather than at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marek plura on policies for skills development to combat youth unemployment. the fight against unemployment is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union and has always been a priority for my political group, the epp. i welcome the ideas developed in this report, which stresses in particular the flexibility of education systems and the need to be able to match knowledge and skills at all stages of employment in order to adapt to the needs of the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to tackle one of the scourges of europe today: youth unemployment. it therefore recommends a number of measures to create jobs, including facilitating the creation of their own businesses, investing in education in line with the needs of the labour market, promoting alternance training and urgently integrating new technologies into learning processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on skills development policies to combat youth unemployment. the problem of youth unemployment is becoming endemic. to support their integration into the labour market, one of the main measures would be to promote the development of skills. some of the measures recommended in this report are both right and necessary. in particular, guidance from an early age should be encouraged, training adapted and made more flexible to better meet employers' expectations, apprenticeships, alternance training and in-company tutoring should be encouraged, etc. although good, these tracks are reworked to the eu sauce and therefore come down to very vague proposals, without any practical or concrete contribution. all we find are theories and wishful thinking. it is clear that policies to integrate young people into the labour market must be implemented as a priority at regional and local level, not at european level. public service networks are able to support young people in the transition to employment, in partnership with associations or private organisations, as well as with companies.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is true that it has the merit of being concerned about youth unemployment, but it is incapable of making any concrete proposals. all the amendments tabled by the fn members were rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, although it is a commendable initiative in the fight against the ever-growing unemployment of young people. in the context of the right measures, this text tends to promote skills rather than diplomas, to encourage youth guidance, or to support learning. however, the concrete proposals are vague or even absent. disconnected from economic reality, ignoring the budget cuts in the member states, this text advocates a youth employment policy at european level, when the solutions lie at local and regional level. finally, as has often happened, the amendments tabled by our group were systematically rejected, and the final text was polluted by ideological claims (gender theory, aid to migrants), which i strongly oppose.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this long litany of wishes is to combat youth unemployment through skills development policies. some good ideas emerge from this text, such as the desire to encourage apprenticeship, alternance training and tutoring, or the desire to anticipate the skills needs of the growth sectors. but these big ideas can be organized by the member states, which have the prerogatives to do so. it seems clear to us that policies to integrate young people into the labour market must be implemented as a priority at regional and local level: public service networks are able to support young people in the transition to employment, in partnership with associations or private organizations, as well as with companies. the european union does not need to deal with this.
in writing. ‒ the main merit of this report, which suggests ways to combat youth unemployment, is that it strongly opposes cuts in education and encourages the creation of green jobs that cannot be relocated. otherwise, he's just repeating the usual puns from the right. starting with the development, from the secondary school, of 'entrepreneurial spirit' and 'professional skills' but also 'democratic skills'. the increase in the private sector's control of education is also a factor, supposedly to the benefit of changing markets and to the detriment of students' basic and civic skills. once again, there is a call for deregulation of entrepreneurship, the eu's panacea for all job seekers in all circumstances. finally, with 7 million young people out of work in the eu, it is particularly unfair and unworthy to highlight the 2 million unfilled or 'overqualified' jobs. as with the introduction of the youth guarantee over three years ago, there is no guarantee beyond the words 'decent and quality jobs'. i vote against it.
in writing. - this is a major report that deserves our full attention. but this report contains vague proposals on apprenticeship, flexibility of courses, alternance training, etc. they are a paradox in relation to the budgetary constraints imposed on the member states. in addition, by emphasizing skills rather than diplomas, the report itself appears to be an admission of the failure of national education systems. in addition, it seems much more appropriate that policies for the integration of young people should be pursued as a priority at regional and local level, rather than at the european level. finally, the amendments in committee have inserted inappropriate and dangerous notions, such as the integration of migrants and the application of gender theory. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ to support the integration of young people into the labour market, one of the main measures would be to promote the development of skills, rather than qualifications. this idea is in some ways the root of the failure of national education and vocational training systems. other avenues are being developed, such as encouraging guidance from an early age, apprenticeship, alternance training and in-company tutoring. although these are good ideas, they are only vague proposals, with no practical application. most of these measures are difficult to implement in the present context where member states are forced to adopt tight budgets. it is clear that policies to integrate young people into the labour market must be implemented as a priority at regional and local level, not at european level. the idea of developing entrepreneurship to encourage young people to create their own jobs is a common one, but its impact will be marginal in a particularly difficult economic context. youth entrepreneurship is sometimes just a tool used to get them out of the unemployment figures. this report should not be supported.
in writing. ‒ this report on skills development policies to combat youth unemployment envisages putting the skills of young people ahead of their qualifications in order to facilitate their integration into the labour market, but also encouraging guidance from an early age, as well as apprenticeship or alternance training, adapting training and making courses more flexible, and anticipating the skills needs of the most promising sectors. these proposals are hardly revolutionary and are, for the most part, vague. moreover, these measures would require a budgetary effort impossible within the binding framework of the european union. moreover, this policy should be conducted at the local and state level, not in brussels. the reasons listed in this text led me to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the fight against youth unemployment, which is one of my priorities. at present, more than 7 million young europeans aged 15 to 24 are not in employment, education or training. of these, 4.5 million are unemployed. in this very worrying context, it is essential to develop the skills of young people so that they can integrate into the labour market. european funds help to provide access to university and company training. i supported the provisions calling for more financial resources to disseminate information on european funding tools and to develop, in universities and in companies, the knowledge and skills needed to seek funds, study and manage funding projects.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on policies to combat youth unemployment, which outlined measures to promote skills development. the report was widely agreed in committee and received the same approval in parliament. it provides valuable support in the fight against youth unemployment, a priority for the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on youth unemployment in europe, a dramatic phenomenon which is reaching very high levels, while 2 million jobs remain vacant in the european union. the report calls on the union to react to this situation, which constitutes a significant threat to social peace in europe, and to propose concrete measures to avoid it. it calls on the member states to adopt social protection measures to counter the economic and social effects of youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ this report is a collection of ponciffs, wishful thinking and measures unrelated to the real issue. the training and integration of young people into the labour market can only be effective if it is decided at national level, in accordance with the demographic and economic realities of each country. the differences between member states are very great on these two points, and it is counterproductive to try to deal with this problem at european level, as if the situations were the same everywhere. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on policies for skills development, as it aims to combat youth unemployment. i am convinced that the education system should be more flexible in allowing the development of professional skills at each stage of a career. as youth unemployment is a priority issue, i believe it is imperative to adapt education systems to the needs of the labour market. i believe that france should take inspiration from systems that work, such as in germany, where apprenticeship is a sector in its own right and with very good opportunities.
in writing. ‒ today, more than 7 million young europeans are not in employment, education or training. the unemployment rate among young people is twice the unemployment rate in the union. what future is there for our european societies if we are not able to offer all our young people the opportunity to exploit and fully exploit their talents and entrepreneurial spirit? that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which makes some interesting proposals to combat youth unemployment. all levels of action - european, national, local - and all actors - public, private and civil society - must be involved in this collective and orderly effort. the levers of action such as education, traineeships, apprenticeships and lifelong learning must be activated, as must european instruments such as erasmus+, the youth guarantee or eures.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment remains a central economic and social problem. the european union has almost 5 million young people out of work, while at the same time almost 2 million jobs are unfilled. in order to respond to this problem, it is important to take account of changes in the labour market and thus adapt education systems to develop the knowledge and skills needed for the different stages of professional careers. in parallel with these changes, there is a need to strengthen the links between the education system, i.e. higher education institutions, and business. the creation of businesses and self-employment are also elements that can respond to the fight against youth unemployment. finally, better absorption of european funds by the member states is needed.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is at an unacceptable level. more than 23% of our young people are unemployed. faced with the risk of losing an entire generation, the european union takes responsibility and proposes that the member states implement the necessary measures. i am convinced of this and have therefore voted in favour of this report. by recognising the fundamental right to education and training, it highlights the need to invest in education as the main tool for young people's qualifications and success. the report also stresses the need to create quality jobs so that the new generation does not become the generation of precariousness. above all, we call for the youth guarantee to be strengthened: every young person must be offered a training solution or a job. this position of the european parliament, already defended during the vote on the 2016 budget, was however rejected by the commission and the council during the budgetary procedure. the commission must come forward with a concrete proposal: our young people will not accept being sacrificed in the name of austerity, the youth guarantee must continue in 2017!
in writing. ‒ the problem of youth unemployment is beginning to take an endemic form. to support their integration into the labour market, one of the main measures would be to promote the development of skills rather than qualifications. this idea is in some ways the root of the failure of national education and vocational training systems. most of the proposed measures are difficult to implement in the present context where member states are forced to adopt tight budgets. it is clear that policies to integrate young people into the labour market must be implemented as a priority at regional and local level, not at european level! public service networks are able to support young people in the transition to employment, in partnership with associations or private organisations, as well as with companies. there is no need for the eu to deal with this. the idea of developing entrepreneurship to encourage young people to create their own jobs is a recurring idea whose impact will be marginal in a particularly difficult economic context. moreover, this interest in youth entrepreneurship is sometimes just a tool used to 'occupy' young people and thus to get them out of the unemployment figures. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the least that can be said is that youth unemployment is a major concern in europe, with the rate rising to 21.4% at the end of 2014, double the general unemployment rate and exceeding 50% in some eu countries, notably greece and spain. the aim of this report was to identify the causes of youth unemployment and to propose different solutions to address them. the report is far from being up to the challenge. he still proposes the same inadequate recipes, including the creation of enterprises as a "sustainable" way of reducing unemployment, even though it is known that this is a dangerous approach, especially in the long term. what about the so-called need to balance the skills of young people with the demands of the market, which is constantly demanding adaptation to the needs of enterprises? the content has certainly been improved thanks to the adoption of the majority of the amendments of my gue group in the parliamentary committee, such as the creation of safer and more sustainable jobs, especially in the social and solidarity-based economy and in renewable energies, or the desire to strengthen the youth employment initiative. so in the end i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on the digital single market because it supports, through the digital economy, the federalisation of europe and undermines areas of sovereignty of the member states. the report proposes to introduce greater vat harmonisation in the area of online shipments, thus affecting the tax sovereignty of the member states. it also provides for the concentration of national operators into a few large operators at european level and for the unification of copyright and intellectual property rules. the measures in this ultra-liberal and free-trade text would help to make the member states lose all digital sovereignty to the chinese and american giants in the digital sector.
in writing. ‒ the key document of this parliament's term, this text provides clear support from the european parliament to the commission's communication on the digital economy. the text uses the concept of the digital economy for political purposes, supporting the construction of a european federalism without mentioning an essential and non-negotiable point at the time of globalization and the dismantling of european equipment: digital sovereignty. on this vital issue and in the interests of our nation, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because it aims to remove the barriers that prevent innovative companies from launching and developing. the digital single market can help to create more growth and jobs. it has been estimated that once completed, the digital single market could create €340 billion of additional growth in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which supports one of the commission's flagship projects, which the eurocrats are telling us about: the digital single market. as with the single energy market, the aim is to advance the federalisation of europe in vital sovereign areas, starting with taxation: in the name of market fluidification, the project provides for greater vat harmonisation in the area of online shipments, towards a single rate, to develop cross-border purchases. the trend is also towards a concentration of operators in a few european-level oligopolies, which would make it impossible for the states to regain their sovereignty in this strategic economy. in the end, it is our states and, with them, our citizens who will be handed over to the american giants of telecommunications and the internet.
in writing. ‒ this report for a digital single market act uses the digital economy to advance federal europe at the expense of states in different areas of sovereignty. it provides for greater harmonisation of vat for online mail (single rate), concentration of transactions by a few european operators and unification of copyright and intellectual property rules to prohibit zone blocking. the text, however, refuses to deal with such important subjects as the dismantling of european telecommunications equipment manufacturers in favour of the chinese and the americans or the lack of investment due to competition, especially in digital terms, in rural or peripheral areas. finally, nothing is said about the problem of personal data which differs according to european or american rules, especially when we know the risks with espionage cases. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report uses the digital economy as a pretext to promote the federalisation of europe in areas that fall within the competence of the member states. the rapporteur also proposes, as the european commission has recommended, to harmonise taxation to encourage cross-border purchases. the text also promotes the concentration of operators, which will undermine the sovereignty of the member states in an industry which we consider to be strategic. finally, the text calls for the unification of national legislation on intellectual property. these proposals are unquestionably harmful to the operators of the digital industry, who will be exposed to unfair international competition. it is about preserving our jobs and our national sovereignty in a highly strategic sector. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report entitled 'towards an act on the digital single market'. new digital technologies have an impact on almost every sector of our society. from agriculture to finance to transport, digital technology has brought a revolution that has profoundly changed the way they work. european legislation must therefore be adapted to these technological developments. the achievement of a digital single market will foster competitiveness and job creation while providing a regulatory framework to regulate the negative aspects that such technologies can generate.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out parliament's position on the communication from the commission on the digital single market strategy of 6 march 2015, one of the pillars of president juncker's political agenda. the report makes a number of recommendations to take advantage of the growth potential of the digital economy, by encouraging the development of innovative companies in the field of new technologies or 3d printing and new forms of trade and exchange such as the sharing economy. the report also looks at consumer protection online, with the ban on geo-blocking. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. this own-initiative report sets out the measures needed to establish a digital single market at european level. this will in particular maximise the growth potential of the digital economy and enhance the security of digital networks and infrastructures.
in writing. ‒ today, only 1.7% of eu businesses make full use of advanced digital technologies and only 14% of smes use the internet as a sales channel. in 2013, the size of the sharing economy market was about 3.5 billion worldwide, and it's estimated that it will exceed 100 billion in the next few years. this is why the european commission has made the completion of the digital market one of its political priorities. sixteen initiatives will be put in place by the end of 2016 to improve access to goods and services for eu consumers, while ensuring a high level of protection on a long-term basis, and to remove barriers for smes, start-ups and growing businesses to seize the opportunities offered by new information and communication technologies (ict).
in writing. ‒ the creation of a digital single market will enable europe to catch up with the us by making its industry more competitive against the global digital giants. i therefore voted in favour of the gebhardt and kallas report on the creation of a digital single market. the digital revolution that is about to unfold will offer immense growth potential for european businesses and consumers. the trust of consumers is the central pillar of the digital single market. as far as businesses are concerned, it is absolutely essential to provide them with a stable legal environment so that they can develop beyond european borders without unjustified additional costs or legal uncertainty. finally, the development of the digital economy must be accompanied by protection of copyright, intellectual property and a better fight against counterfeiting on the internet.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the resolution we have tabled does not give enough attention to cultural issues, which are central to the digital agenda. digital technologies, by the profound transformation of the tools, objects and uses they imply, directly affect the creative and heritage professions. these technologies raise key legal questions with non-neutral economic consequences on access to information and works and on the remuneration of authors. they also question the tasks of public services, which requires clarification of the services directive in the wake of this digital revolution. in addition, given the economic and social potential of big data and the internet of things (especially in the fields of health, energy and logistics), i would like to stress the importance of investing in information highways that are practical and open to all. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is a tool that must be able to be used in this particular case.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a digital single market is part of a federalistic integration dynamic that would be imposed on the member states through forced harmonisation. the integration strategy is clearly seen in the proposal to harmonise vat in the area of online mail, but also in the regulation of operators which will encourage their grouping at the level of the european network and finally in the harmonisation of intellectual property rules. i am committed to the sovereignty of the member states in this area of network freedoms and free competition and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to dismantle the sovereignty of states in the digital field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in order to ensure consumer and business confidence in new digital services, a high level of data protection is essential. innovation and more generally growth in the digital economy will only happen if we encourage business models that build that trust. i also believe that the digitisation of industry should be seriously encouraged by the european commission through the adoption of european or global standards. this represents opportunities for industry and all our smes that the various productive sectors cannot afford to pass up. in addition, digital taxation needs to be adapted to this new economy, so there is an urgent need to develop common standards that respond to the specificities of this rapidly evolving sector. finally, access to the internet in rural or remote areas must be defended at european level. for these regions, this is an economic and social shortfall. public-private investment in these areas must therefore be encouraged.
in writing. the european parliament also has a say in how it envisages the development of a digital market by 2020. that is why i supported this own-initiative report which sets out two key priorities: improving access to the digital single market for consumers and businesses across europe, and creating a favourable environment and fair conditions of competition for innovative services and advanced digital networks. geo-blocking and unjustified tariff discrimination must be stopped. while stimulating this large market, we must also ensure that we take into account a fair remuneration of creators. it is not acceptable that the giants of the web take the wealth without redistributing it and investing in cultural content. digital technology must be the ally, not the enemy, of a living, quality culture.
in writing. ‒ although this is only an own-initiative report, the issues it addresses are nevertheless fundamental, since they paint a picture of our future economy. i am very much in favour of building a digital single market. we have the talent, we have the ideas, but we lack a unified market which, in some areas, is dominated by us companies. the reality is that we have accumulated a backlog which we must not only catch up with but also overcome by coming up with innovative ideas in order to become the market leaders of the future. there is untapped growth potential in the digital revolution, and i am concerned that our young talents and start-ups will be exporting to the us to find the opportunities that europe does not offer. i think that we have here a pool of growth that france, through education, training, taxation and a reform of the labour code, must integrate into its economic thinking and encourage to become a country that respects its traditions but also has the audacity to invest in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it provides clear support from the european parliament to the commission's communication on the digital economy. the text uses the concept of the digital economy for political purposes. it is obvious that it is taking part in the construction of a european federalism without mentioning a crucial point which is non-negotiable in the face of globalisation and the dismantling of european equipment: digital sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues evelyne gebhardt and kaja kallas on a strategy for a digital single market. this report is the european parliament's response to president juncker's digital strategy, which he made a priority of his mandate. it covers a wide range of topics, from online commerce to copyright, vat, the media and data protection. the digital world is one of the challenges of tomorrow, and the european parliament, by taking a stand on its issues, intends to prepare the union to be at the forefront of all the areas covered by the digital world. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the digital single market, a subject on which i have invested a lot of time and tabled many amendments. the report should help to lay the foundations for a stable european legal environment for a more efficient european digital economy. businesses need legal certainty to grow across borders and consumers need it to buy and sell online with confidence across europe. but the creation of a digital single market must also enable us to fight counterfeiting on the internet and defend ourselves against the american giants and the chinese of tomorrow. i voted against paragraph 73 of this report, which considered that the limited legal liability of platforms was 'essential', even though google, apple, facebook and other amazon companies are now making huge profits from a market of 500 million consumers by evading tax, flouting european rules, crushing competitors and not really participating in the financing of cultural products, partly because of this limited legal liability which has become obsolete and aberrant.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the digital single market. the text uses the digital economy as a pretext to advance the federalisation of europe in areas of sovereignty. in the field of taxation, for example, it provides for greater harmonisation of vat in the area of online shipments, towards a single rate, to develop cross-border purchases. this report is ultra-liberal and free trade. he is deliberately ignoring the vital issue of digital sovereignty to hand over our state-linked hands and feet to the american telecom and internet giants. the same is true of the sovereignty of states over personal data, the dismantling of european telecommunications equipment manufacturers in favour of chinese and american companies, and the lack of investment due to excessive competition (digital divide).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this ultra-liberal text because it uses the digital economy to increase the federalisation of europe, in particular through increased harmonisation of vat on online shipments to develop cross-border purchases. it also serves powerful financial interests by encouraging the concentration of operators at european level, which will make it more difficult for france to regain its sovereignty in this area.
in writing. the title of this report was already ominous. the content followed this path towards ultra-liberalism and total free trade. it uses the digital economy as a pretext to push for the federalisation of europe in different areas of sovereignty. taxation is thus affected, since a closer harmonisation of vat towards a single rate is being discussed, in an effort to make the market more fluid. other measures developed by the text include the concentration of telecommunications operators into a few large european operators and the unification of copyright and intellectual property rules (with a view to prohibiting zone blocking). the digital sovereignty of the states is thus broken and handed over to the giants of the telecommunications and the internet. finally, this report entails an unacceptable loss of national sovereignty on the issue of personal data, a crucial issue for all of us. i voted strongly against this deplorable text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this report uses the digital economy as a pretext to advance the federalisation of europe in areas that still belong to the member states: taxation (with increased vat harmonisation in the area of online shipments), concentration of operators into a few large 'european' operators, unification of copyright and intellectual property rules (to prohibit zone blocking), etc. the result is an ultra-liberal and free-trade text that sacrifices the sovereignty of our states on the altar of the american giants of telecommunications and the internet.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that 'the achievement of a digital single market [...] could boost the union's competitiveness, have a positive influence on growth and employment, relaunch the single market and make society more inclusive, by offering new opportunities for citizens and businesses, in particular through the exchange and sharing of innovation'. beyond the fine words, it is worth noting that the commission and the rapporteurs consider the digital revolution only in economic terms, without really taking users into account. some progress has been made in this text, such as the limitation of geo-blocking (i.e. the impossibility of accessing certain services on the internet based on the ip address linked to a country). but the issue of roaming charges is carefully avoided, as are aspects related to net neutrality. i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ this text is a flagship document of the legislature: it provides clear support from the european parliament to the commission's communication on the digital economy. the text uses the concept of the digital economy for political purposes. it is obvious that it is taking part in the construction of a european federalism without mentioning a crucial point which is non-negotiable in the face of globalisation and the dismantling of european equipment: digital sovereignty. on this vital issue and in the interests of our nation, i oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ this document provides the european parliament's support to the commission on the digital economy and, under the pretext of regulating the digital economy, it plays the game of federalisation of europe. it provides for the harmonization of vat to achieve a single rate. in addition, it concentrates operators towards a few large european operators which would make it difficult to return to national digital sovereignty. we therefore oppose this text, which goes against any notion of national sovereignty but towards more federal europe.
in writing. ‒ this text gives a blank check to the european commission's communication on the digital economy. the commission is using the digital economy as a trojan horse for forced federalisation, since the text includes increased vat harmonisation in the area of online shipments and aims to introduce a single rate for cross-border purchases, but also to promote the major economic operators at european level, instead of national operators, in order to undermine any strategic power of the states on the issue. finally, there is provision for harmonisation of copyright and intellectual property. in short, this text clearly opposes the sovereignty of the member states and does not mention the deleterious consequences of competition policies on infrastructure investment. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the strategy for a european digital single market. the aim is to make european companies more competitive against the global digital giants in this sector with immense growth potential. the emphasis is also on security: citizens should enjoy the same protection when they buy online as when they buy in traditional stores. as far as businesses are concerned, it is absolutely essential to provide them with a stable legal environment so that they can develop beyond european borders without unjustified additional costs or legal uncertainty. the role and responsibility of internet platforms and intermediaries will need to be clarified: they must be responsible for the content they disseminate. i have approved the provisions on the protection of copyright and intellectual property, in order to better combat counterfeiting and protect rightholders, who must be able to benefit from the value created on the internet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the digital single market, considering that better market coherence must be pursued. the single market will significantly improve the distribution of digital goods and services in europe, thereby fostering the growth of our european digital economy.
in writing. i abstained on this own-initiative report on the digital single market because, while it gives an interesting overview of the digital situation in europe today, and legitimately calls on the european commission to adopt a real vision for a connected europe, it proposes a digital future essentially based on deregulation and open markets. such a vision will not allow the two main challenges of the digital single market to be combined, namely to take sufficient account of the role of digital economic actors, and in particular of start-ups and small independent and alternative suppliers, and to allow, while protecting them, citizens to benefit from free access to new digital technologies.
in writing. ‒ this text provides the european parliament's support for the commission's communication on the digital economy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the protection of consumers; the environment; the protection of consumers; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment concentration of operators in a few large european-level operators, which would make it impossible for states to regain their sovereignty in this strategic industry; unification of copyright and intellectual property rules to prohibit zone blocking. this text is ultra-liberal and free trade. he is deliberately ignoring the vital issue of digital sovereignty to hand over our state-linked hands and feet to the american telecom and internet giants. the same is true of the sovereignty of states over personal data, the dismantling of european telecommunications equipment manufacturers to the benefit of the chinese and the americans, the lack of investment due to excessive competition (digital divide). i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the digital market, on the internet, is a huge reservoir of potential growth. it has grown rapidly in recent years: more and more of us are shopping, renting and watching movies on the internet. however, the digital market is under-exploited by our businesses in europe, and the reason is very simple: there are barriers that prevent the emergence of a common, european digital single market. today, it is sometimes impossible to get a product delivered because of where we live, impossible to watch a video from abroad. we have just voted a key text in the european parliament which calls for all these obstacles to be removed. this will enable our companies to compete directly with the giants of america or asia. it's good for our economy, and it's good for our jobs. but we must not lift the barriers on any condition. the internet must remain a space of freedom, but not a zone of lawlessness. so i want to develop a european-style digital market, where we protect copyright, where we hold the big video and music platforms accountable for the content they broadcast.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the digital single market. this strategic guideline, which may seem abstract, is followed by the adoption of 16 important and very concrete european initiatives. the challenge is to make the european union one of the leaders of the fourth industrial revolution, with the creation of a genuine cross-border e-commerce market. if completed, this project will boost the union's competitiveness, have a positive impact on growth and employment, and significantly relaunch the single market. this process will also contribute, provided that we decisively close our digital skills gap, to making our society more inclusive, by offering new opportunities to european citizens, consumers and businesses, while stimulating trade and the sharing of innovation. to achieve this, a key word is trust, both from consumers and businesses. this also raises the issue of an adequate regulatory environment, in particular for platforms and intermediaries, outlined in the text. finally, it highlights the potential offered by the sharing economy, without being too evangelical: we recall the challenges it represents for the legislator.
in writing. ‒ the digital single market is one of the main priorities of the juncker commission. on 6 may, it unveiled its action plan to build this market. the report by kaja kallas and evelyn gebhardt urges the commission to act in all areas of its strategy and even beyond. it called for full harmonisation of the legal framework for online sales in order to better protect consumers and improve consumer confidence. it also places the european union in a context of innovation and support for young firms, which are essential for european dynamism. however, the report gives too little weight to culture and creators, which are as much a source of wealth for europe as start-ups. it contains ambiguous provisions on geo-blocking and platform liability, while it opens up important discussions on portability, copyright, audiovisual services, and that europe must specifically affirm the role of digital in the dynamism of cultural creation. for these reasons, and despite these reservations, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the creation of a digital single market which will enable europe to strengthen the competitiveness of its industry in the face of the global digital giants. the eu must get on the digital bandwagon as soon as possible, catch up with the us and build a legal and economic environment that is conducive to the creation of future european digital champions. the creation of a digital single market is accompanied by prospects for economic growth, many jobs but also greater benefits for consumers. i supported this text, which combines the development of a digital economy with the protection of copyright, intellectual property and better tools to combat counterfeiting on the internet. the union must fully embrace the digital path, offering immense opportunities for growth, a stable legal framework and preserving our cultural industries.
in writing. ‒ this text is a flagship document of the legislature as it provides the european parliament's support for the commission's communication on the digital economy. the digital economy is here used as a pretext for advancing the federalisation of europe in areas of sovereignty: taxation: in the name of market fluidification, it provides for greater harmonisation of vat in the area of online shipments, moving towards a single rate, to develop cross-border purchases; concentration of operators in a few large european-level operators, which would make it impossible for states to regain their sovereignty in this strategic industry; unification of copyright and intellectual property rules to prohibit zone blocking. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the digital sector is becoming increasingly important in all areas of everyone's life. this is why economic issues cannot be disconnected from other issues. this report does just that, considering that the future of digital policy necessarily and only depends on deregulation and the opening up of markets. competition "provides consumers with more choice". it is a great classic of european politics, but unfortunately we know what it is. a real plurality of choice for a minority and low cost for the vast majority. the european parliament has lost an opportunity to put forward an ambitious project that takes account of all the issues at stake, starting with ensuring equal and universal access to digital services to really reduce the digital divide. concerns about the protection of digital workers or copyright have not even been raised, let alone addressed. a missed opportunity to really take account of the general interest in this important sector for the future. i therefore voted against.
mr president, let us be frank about the problems of migration: we have all failed. the member states first, the largest and the smallest, the most open and the most closed, the non-schengen countries as well as the schengen countries and the european union itself. the refugee resettlement programme covered only 10% of the total actual arrivals and, as mentioned earlier, was carried out at a rate of only 1 or 2 per 1000. the lesson is clear: national egoism doesn't work, it's no longer an option. a member state cannot boast of blaming its neighbours for the problem and then turning to them to obtain financing for its public investments throughout the union. a member state cannot decide on its own to accept all those who will apply and then call on those of its partners who have made a different political choice to help. which of our member states can hope to deal with the problem on its own in a country of origin, whether in peace or in war, or in a country of transit, such as turkey or libya? as for the european council, mr president of the european council, how can it claim to be the sovereign body of the union and let its members go home and publicly boast that they do not apply their own decisions? let's get some rest! divided, we suffer all events, internal and external; united, we have the ability to overcome them all. there is a time for emotion, there is a time for reason and there is a time to return to what should be the first quality of the elected that we are: responsibility.
mr president, madam prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, mr schulz has spoken to us of a coup d'état and even of the alleged 'poutinization' of polish politics. oh there! yes, the pis is a popular party. the attack on poland today is an attack by a european system on democracy and on the peoples who have chosen sovereignty, freedom and independence in solidarity. the people who still believe in the christian roots of humanism, and whose humanism is not the fabrication of a new european order, supreme disorder. yes, poland is a people of resistance to whom we owe the fall of the wall. yes, poland and its people are resisting because they are conservative, they have ancient and true values: the family of one father and one mother, respect for life; she believes in truth, justice, and righteousness. it's catholic, not liberal in the hands of sects controlling society through finance and the media. ladies and gentlemen, the european system is bankrupt. its democracy is a dictatorship which forces people to vote again as soon as they say no to a treaty or which simply ignores the vote against the european constitution, for example. the permanent coup d'état is the european system. poland, hungary, slovakia, the czech republic, the countries which were friends of the velvet revolution - which i had gathered before the fall of the wall - are now resisting this dictatorship which is ready to attack, destabilise and overthrow any government which does not work for the foreign powers which govern here and seek to govern the peoples of europe. the alsatian i am also resists german arrogance. we french patriots can no longer stand, with the poles, that one country - germany - decides on the economy of the eurozone, immigration and the conformity of democracy to the criteria of the new european reich. i ask this house to recover its senses. yes, poland is being attacked because of the crime of social, human and christian conservatism. believe me, this is just the beginning. the revolt of the people is launched, it will sweep you away and you deserve it. the time is near.
mr president, madam prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, when i hear mrs harms or mr verhofstadt, i think that it is not poland that has a problem with the rule of law and democracy, but the european institutions. when i hear the european commission talking about the so-called problem of poland, i think that this commission has a problem with facts and realities. did she look at the time of speech in polish political life before the pis election? did she look at the constitution of the constitutional court before the pis election? do you think the polish people, who have fought so hard for their freedom, would accept to sacrifice it like this? i was recently reading an interview with a polish political scientist, piotr kaziński, who is not particularly known for his close ties to the law and justice party and who himself says that there is absolutely no fascist drift in poland. i would like to remind you that in my country - france - the members of the constitutional council are directly appointed by the presidents of the republic, the senate and the national assembly, as are the heads of the public audiovisual service, but indirectly, which could be interpreted as a form of control of power. it is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission is using false pretexts to destabilize a democratically elected government. and so today i am - i say - a pole, wholeheartedly with the polish people to uphold freedom... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, if i have understood the explanations given to us correctly, we are reducing democracy in order to strengthen democracy. poland is asking to be exempted from the charter of fundamental rights in the name of improving rights. i'll make another point. what credit should we give to our debate this afternoon when the european institutions have decided to offer three billion euros to mr erdogan's turkey, which is also persecuting journalists, imprisoning them and turning the law on its head? the truth is that the europe of the market has supplanted the europe of the values of freedom, human rights and pluralism of the press. i have long since proposed the creation of a european observatory to ensure the pluralism of the press and media in all countries. it's not too late to do that, it would be a step forward. we could also set up the same observatory on the issues and instruments of justice and law in each european country.
mr president, madam prime minister, after viktor orbán, it is your turn to come here to answer the scandalous accusations made against your government by the eurocrats. in short, you are being accused of implementing the programme which brought you to power after perfectly democratic elections, a voluntarist programme which aims in particular to protect poles from the foolish decisions taken by brussels on immigration. instead of calling on more and more immigrants to boost your demographic, you are instead betting on the polish families you have decided to help, including your measure of 500 zlotys per child. after this heated debate, in which your country was violently attacked, i wanted to thank you for showing us that another europe is possible, a europe of sovereign nations and free peoples who refuse to give up what they are. i am glad to see that you are forming a coherent bloc in eastern europe with your neighbours hungary, the czech republic and slovakia, which rejects the euro-globalist dictates. so long live poland, long live hungary, long live the free and proud peoples of our old continent!
in writing. the eu's attack on poland is an unacceptable attack on democracy and on the people who have chosen the pis (law and justice party) to represent them. it is a fight between brussels technocrats and well-meaning people against a free and independent nation that safeguards its values with conviction. the european system is the permanent coup d'état. when you don't think like mrs merkel and the system, you get re-elected or, as in this case, you are accused of human, social and christian conservatism. as if the eu were to abandon all its values which have been its foundation and identity for millennia in order to give birth to a globalised europe subject to austerity and german dictates! poland is now showing us that another europe is possible, a sovereign europe, as is the case in hungary, the czech republic and slovakia. i am glad that this debate gives me the opportunity to express my full support for poland, its people and its leaders.
in writing. after hungary and the government of viktor orbán, poland is now sliding into nationalist authoritarianism: the european union must take measures to stem the drift that threatens the rule of law. like its hungarian counterpart fidesz, andrzej duda's law and justice party has attacked press freedom. the new president also took control of the polish constitutional court, in defiance of the polish constitution. the polish government is thus directly attacking democracy and the rule of law, by flouting the principle of separation of powers. the european union must respond firmly to avoid the 'urbanisation' of the whole of eastern europe. i am determined that we shall initiate a procedure to safeguard the rule of law in poland as well as in hungary. jean-claude juncker and the european people's party must take responsibility: we must also severely punish hungary! the europeans do not understand that we tolerate such deviations.
madam president, 200 000 human victims, 300 treasures of humanity threatened, including, by islamist vandalism, the unfortunate christians of syria driven from their homes, killed, butchered, crucified, their children forced to watch, as in hassaké, the beheading of their own. it is obvious that this must stop, but for this to stop, there are a number of conditions that must be met. the first is to talk to the legal government of that country, whatever else you may think of it, which is a party you cannot bypass. the second is that turkey, saudi arabia and qatar must stop supporting the jihadist movement. the third is that all the interested states must be involved, including iran, russia and of course the permanent members of the security council. fourthly, we must not be naive enough to think that everything will be settled simply by an electoral majority resulting from free elections in which even refugees who have left the country will take part. the jihadists will never accept any such agreement! the fifth condition is that peace must be restored, if necessary by force. this force must be an international force provided by muslim states which are not parties to this conflict and guided by the permanent members of the united nations security council. it is not western bombing that will bring peace to this wretched country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few weeks' time the syrians will be celebrating a very sad anniversary: five years of war. the promised arab spring has turned out to be a nightmare for civilians. syria is in chaos, to which western governments have largely contributed by supporting the syrian rebellion, composed of relatively moderate jihadists. the disaster of the us and french interventions in iraq and libya has not been a lesson. today, the number one enemy is still the syrian regime, which is accused of starving the 40,000 people of madaya. but we forget to mention that this city is held by islamists from the al-nusra front and the salafists from ahrar al-sham. i should add that according to local newspapers, the latter are diverting international aid to sell it at a premium. let me also remind you of the suffering of the people of foua and kefraya, who are besieged by the islamist rebels because of their loyalty to the syrian government. as the islamic state retreats into iraq and syria, but resumes the offensive in libya and makes its mark around the world, it is urgent that our nations normalize their diplomatic relations with the syrian government, as the latest report from the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons states that the syrian authorities have completely destroyed their chemical weapons stockpiles. he should encourage us to do so.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, although it is very late, i am very pleased to be able to bring up in a debate this evening this directive on the presumption of innocence, on which we have been working for many months and on which we have finally reached an agreement, and i might even say a good agreement, after some difficult negotiations. this agreement sets out an ambitious legislative text on this great principle of criminal law, for the respect of our rights of defence for all of us, european citizens. on 31 march last, ladies and gentlemen, you gave me a clear mandate. the position of our parliament was strong and firm. it called for greater protection for suspects or accused persons, an ambitious directive to protect the rights of europeans and a directive harmonising national provisions upwards rather than downwards. the right not to be publicly accused by the public authorities before a judgment is rendered is enshrined in this text. i will give you a recent example: during the charlie hebdo attacks in my country, a young high school student in my constituency, mourad hamyd, was accused of having participated in the attacks, while he was quietly attending a mathematics class. his name was all over the news, all over the media, all over the networks, when he was totally innocent. his name was tarnished, he was involved in horrible attacks, it was a traumatic experience. the european directive proposes to prohibit any public statement or official decision by public authorities which would present or even imply that a suspect is guilty before trial. the text contains clear definitions of public declaration and the concept of public authority. secondly, and this is a victory for parliament, the directive contains a new article on the way in which suspects are presented, who may, at the hearing or in public, be behind glass walls or partitions, handcuffed, with handcuffs, dressed in prison clothes, and this way of presenting people can fully suggest the guilt of the person who is gambling and undermine his right to the presumption of innocence. from now on, we will have to ensure that suspects or accused persons are not presented in a way that might suggest their guilt. finally, the directive fully enshrines the great principle in dubio pro reo, according to which any doubt as to the guilt of a person must obviously benefit that person, and where there is doubt as to the guilt of the person, the person must be acquitted. finally, the fact that the burden of proof rests with the prosecution is a principle of criminal law, and it is self-evident. in the text, some people wanted to make it possible, at some point, to reverse the burden of proof as a principle. this was one of our battles, or even our red line, and we managed to go ahead and make sure that this element exists only in limited cases, where there is a presumption of guilt. the directive also enshrines the right to remain silent and makes the right to silence an absolute right, which is a real breakthrough in this area. it seems obvious, but in some cases silence can be used as such against a person as an inducing element, here too, of his guilt. the directive enshrines the right to be present at the trial and, lastly, with regard to the taking of evidence, a paragraph refers to the national rules on the admissibility of evidence and the fairness of proceedings. we have fought for an additional recital and this is a real first in a european text, since there is a clear reference to article 3 of the echr and to the case law, which states that when evidence is obtained through torture, it totally deprives the whole procedure of fairness.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right, but france does not need the european union to protect it. article 9 of the 1789 declaration does this better than any directive written in obscene jargon. i believe that criminal proceedings should be a matter for the sovereignty of the member states alone. the union is in any case incapable of protecting this fine principle without damaging it. the commission proposal for a directive is a good example of this. article 5 of the convention, for example, allows for the burden of proof to be reversed, with the burden of proof being on the accused rather than on the accuser. in my opinion, this is contrary to the presumption of innocence. even more disturbingly, its recital 17 allows for the use of coercion to compel suspects to provide information. why not torture while we're at it? amendments will no doubt remove these errors, but the damage has already been done in principle. the union is really nothing but a europe of banks and lobbies, and it will never understand anything about freedom, which is fundamentally alien to it.
madam president, i have one thing to say. i am not in favour of the automatic harmonisation of certain parts of the legal systems of national countries. but in the case of criminal procedure, it's a different matter, in my opinion. commissioner knows that i was minister of justice in the czech republic when the european arrest warrant was introduced. the main objection of the czech mps at the time was: yes, we will extradite czech citizens to greece, to germany, to other countries, but where is the guarantee that in these states there will be the same standard of protection of their procedural criminal rights? and it is to this that the proposal we are discussing today is intended to contribute, so that there is a uniform standard of criminal procedure in all countries. i therefore support it, i congratulate the rapporteur, because if european citizens are to be extradited to all 28 countries, we must ensure that there is a basic standard of criminal procedural law in all countries. without that, the european arrest warrant cannot work.
member of the commission.– mr president, the directive on the presumption of innocence is another step on our long journey towards a truly european area of freedom, security and justice. it follows after other directives, like the directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings, adopted in 2010; the directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings, adopted in 2012; and the directive on the right of access to a lawyer adopted in 2013. i would like to encourage you to vote in favour of this directive tomorrow. i am already looking forward to the vote on the directive on specific safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, which was agreed before christmas. finally, i am convinced that we will also be able to negotiate on the directive on legal aid in the same constructive and responsible spirit.
i'm the reporter. madam president, in conclusion, i should like to say briefly, following the comments made by my colleagues, that despite the existence of national legislation on the presumption of innocence and on the components of this principle, there are still many violations of this right in europe there have been several examples of this and, in connection with this, an erosion of this fundamental right itself. it is a fundamental right, a right which is essential to prevent arbitrariness and abuse in the trials, and, as one of my colleagues has just said, one of the pillars of democracy. that is why it was important that we reached this agreement - a solid agreement at a time when democracy and the rule of law are being undermined or attacked within the european area itself. as a lawyer by training, i am proud to have been able to take part in the drafting of this directive, much to the displeasure of my colleague mr lebreton, who called the text absurd and interminable. a directive containing 15 articles is relatively brief and in any case quite worthy of the attention of legal experts. i am also pleased, and i agree with most of what my colleagues have said, that this directive continues to set out the union's road map for procedural rights, and above all, in essence, to build the europe to which many of us aspire, a europe which respects the rights of the defence and which is a europe which is coherent between the member states and between the rights of their citizens. in conclusion, i would of course like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs from the bottom of my heart for the hard and constant work they have put into the construction of this text, thank mrs jourová who, on behalf of the commission, has been attentive and very helpful, the council, with the latvian presidency first, then the luxembourg presidency, which has finalized this text with us, and all the teams who have worked very hard to achieve this result. i hope that tomorrow a large majority of our parliament will be able to approve this directive on the presumption of innocence, which, as several of my colleagues and you have said, madam commissioner, is part of an overall framework on procedural rights.
mr president, my point of order is based on rules 152 and 154. i think that in any case, mr president, it would not have been possible to put this proposal to the vote immediately. article 152 of our rules of procedure is perfectly clear: the agenda for the part-session must be adopted at the beginning of the part-session. there is, of course, a possibility of amendment under rule 154, that is to say, an urgent motion. however, it must first be announced by the president, then translated into all the official languages and can only be discussed at the sitting following the announcement by the president. in any event, therefore, the procedure which has been followed or which might have been followed up to now was contrary to the rules of procedure of our institution.
mr president, mr prime minister, you are taking over the presidency of the council at a critical time. many believe that 2016 is the year of all the dangers for the european union. there is talk of a risk of explosion because of the possible withdrawal of the united kingdom, but also because the interests of the member states have never been so divergent. and above all - you have alluded to this - the people are increasingly refusing to be enslaved by this euro-globalist super-state which has been built up for them little by little over the last 60 years and which they are living more and more like a dungeon. this europe is coming to terms with its contradictions, and one of them is to make sure that governments in brussels come to say and do things that are very different from why the people elected them. for example, your own government, mr president, proposed, not two months ago, a geographical and regulatory tightening of the schengen area. but today, you're gonna have to argue the exact opposite. and slovakia, which will follow you, will do the same, as it challenges today before the court of justice the quota of migrants that we would like to impose on it. there is bound to come a time when we must choose: either to serve the people or to serve the institution of the 'european union', which they increasingly reject.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, parliament expects the dutch presidency to place the reform of taxation of multinational companies very high on its agenda. for years, multinationals have been able to play the game of tax competition between our states in order to avoid paying, in many cases, almost all the taxes normally due on the profits they made in europe. all our member states have played this little game, in which the netherlands has been particularly effective. that time is over, just like banking secrecy, and for the same reason. our public opinion can't stand him anymore. that is why the g20, the oecd, the european commission - whose efforts i applaud - and parliament have opened the whole file with a simple philosophy on our part: yes to tax competition, but let us apply to taxation the principles and rules that we apply in all other areas in the union - and i know that the netherlands is particularly keen on this - fairness, transparency and loyalty, whereas today, in this area, there is a prevailing lack of clarity, disloyalty and injustice. we must act on two levels: at union level, we must agree on a common definition of taxable profit, and then we can compete fairly on rates, as we have done for 40 years on vat. at the global level, we need to agree among ourselves and with our partners on the oecd recommendations. the european commission will adopt a comprehensive package on this subject as early as next week. we expect the dutch presidency to be able to reach a political agreement before the end of june, and we also expect the cooperation we expect from it in the committee which i have the honour of chairing in the european parliament.
mr president, as you both know and as you keep saying, the challenges have never been greater: the economy and employment, of course, the migrant crisis, the refugee crisis, terrorists, the destabilisation of the world, syria, libya, and all this at the doorstep of our european union. in the face of these crises and challenges, european citizens are entitled to expect their european political leaders to show courage, will and determination, to take decisions, to stick to them and, finally, to govern effectively. what do we have against you, apart from you two, of course? we have a council which makes few or no decisions and, when it does, does not respect them. we have a crisis of withdrawal, a crisis of governance and a crisis of decision-making. now, we all know what we have to do. we are talking about schengen. you will only save schengen and we will only save schengen if we finally take the decision to control our external borders ourselves. this is an example and we can continue to do so for a long time. i ask you and the political leaders to make progress and take decisions, otherwise populism will continue to grow in the european union.
mr president, mr minister, after reading the programme of the dutch presidency, i would like to welcome the ambition of your presidency. but will you be consistent about its budgetary implications? you cannot ignore that we have just voted a budget for 2016 at the height of its flexibility. so yes, we must make our security - if i may read it - real with our civil and military means of defence and at our borders. but with what credits? so yes, our growth needs research projects funded by the union, but did you know that 86% of good projects are rejected because of lack of funds, not accessibility, as you write? so yes, we must work on the next multiannual financial framework, but we cannot ignore the revision of the current framework, not only because the revision is in the mff - a deal is a deal, as you said - but also to continue the fight against youth unemployment, whose commitment appropriations are suspended for 2016, to relaunch european research, which is a condition for growth, to finance our common security measures, and all that i cannot say in a minute. i would like to conclude by saying that when we do not pay the 17 billion euros in bills, flexibility is not enough: we must find new revenue for the union.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, the dutch presidency is beginning at a time when, under the luxembourg presidency, much has been done on the question of the fight against terrorism, particularly with the negotiations which have been launched to adopt the pnr. a whole area - the fight against terrorist financing - remains to be cleared. i have not heard from you a clear determination or direction on this matter. can you tell us what you intend to do in this area under your presidency? i also imagine that your presidency will not remain indifferent to the decision taken by the european commission on a tax system in belgium. in this area, in line with the work carried out in this european parliament by the taxe committee following the luxleaks scandal, i believe that there is much to be done and undertaken, not only in the european union as a whole but also in your country. you could use your presidency to set an example, including by responding to the constant requests of this european parliament to ensure that the country-by-country declaration is adopted under the right conditions, that is to say, made public.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia. the purpose of this text is to approve the proposal for a council implementing decision authorising latvia to receive and transmit personal data in the context of automated searching of vehicle registration data. i am firmly opposed to the transfer of personal data of french citizens and cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ this text allows latvia to receive and transmit personal data. with my colleagues from the front national, we are firmly opposed to this kind of automatic and widespread transmission of data relating to french citizens. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ this report on automated exchanges of vehicle registration data in latvia is intended to allow latvia to receive and transmit personal data for the purpose of automated consultation of vehicle registration data in order to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. i am strongly opposed to the automatic and widespread transmission of personal data of french citizens. i think it is rather essential on a case-by-case basis to initiate cooperation between states, if necessary. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly opposed to any transfer of personal data, especially in an automated and widespread manner. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the objective of this report is to strengthen crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crime. that is why i have approved this text providing for the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council decision endorsed in this report seeks to increase the flow of personal data for automated consultation in the field of vehicle registration. the automatic transmission of data is part of a current trend towards the deprivation of freedoms in a defined area, under the pretext of fighting terrorism. the latter thrives thanks to the collapse of our frontiers, the laxity of the judiciary and the lack of resources of the national services in the fight against the networks concerned. the data exchanged will be those of a very large majority of innocent citizens, while crime, particularly cross-border crime, continues to escape widespread surveillance. i am opposed to this counterproductive and liberticidal method of fighting crime and terrorism. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to the automatic and widespread transmission of personal data of french citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is really a mere formality since the european parliament is only consulted. the council implementing decision is to authorise the automated exchange and consultation of personal data relating to vehicle registration in latvia. i believe that in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime we need to bring together all the tools at our disposal to be able to identify threats and track down criminals and terrorists. the exchange of vehicle registration information is certainly only a small step, but it seems to me necessary in this fight against those who undermine our freedom and security.
in writing. ‒ this report authorises latvia to receive and transmit personal data. with my colleagues from the front national, we are opposed to this kind of automatic and widespread transmission of data relating to french citizens. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia. the council adopted an implementing decision and is consulting parliament to allow the automated exchange and consultation of personal data relating to vehicle registration in latvia. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is to allow the automated exchange and consultation of personal data relating to vehicle registration between latvia and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia. this vote is not directed against latvia. the report endorses the proposal for a council implementing decision authorising latvia, in order to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, to receive and transmit personal data for the purpose of automated searching of vehicle registration data. i am opposed to the automatic and widespread transmission of personal data of french citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it allows latvia to receive and transmit personal data. i am opposed to this kind of automatic and generalised transmission of data relating to french citizens.
in writing. i voted against this report which authorises latvia to receive and transmit personal data in the context of automated consultation of vehicle registration data. the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime must not be at the expense of honest citizens and their individual freedoms, and does not justify the automatic use of their personal data.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the council authorises latvia to receive and supply personal data in order to combat terrorism and crossborder crime. this will allow it to consult the vehicle registration data automatically. the european parliament was to approve this proposal for a council implementing decision. we are firmly opposed to this, because we are against this automatic and widespread transfer of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to allow latvia to receive and transmit the number plates, personal data, of its police files with those of other member states. the legislation does contain a provision on data protection and limits on its use, but the shortcomings of this legislation are well known. in france, the cnil has expressed concern about this legislation. and above all, this case is part of a general trend of recording offenders as well as citizens. these files are then cross-referenced with passport or other data to determine 'profiles' of each citizen. a so-called big brother to fight terrorism, an argument that snowden has largely demonstrated to be ineffective. it is mainly a means of increasing the amount of data on citizens to make it available to the united states, with which latvia has particularly close defence relations. given the bellicose nature of the government of this country and its hostility to russia, our neighbour and partner, it does not seem prudent to me to incite this country to spy on peaceful people. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report authorises latvia to receive and transmit personal data. with my colleagues from the front national, we are opposed to the automatic and widespread transmission of data relating to french citizens. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the council's proposal to authorise latvia, in order to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, to receive and transmit personal data for the purpose of automated consultation of vehicle registration data. the objective is laudable, but we are opposed to the automatic and widespread transmission of personal data of french citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the proposal for a council implementing decision authorising latvia, in order to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, to receive and transmit personal data for the purpose of automated searching of vehicle registration data. i am opposed to the automatic and widespread transmission of personal data of french citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, the purpose of which was to approve the council implementing decision authorising the automated exchange and consultation of personal data relating to vehicle registration in latvia. the aim is to deepen crossborder cooperation within the framework of the european model for the exchange of information, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and crime.
in writing. ‒ the report on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia, which i supported, is part of a standard european parliament consultation procedure.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the proposal for a council implementing decision authorising latvia, in order to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, to receive and transmit personal data for the purpose of automated searching of vehicle registration data. i am opposed to the automatic and widespread transfer of personal data of citizens and therefore i am voting against this text which threatens freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the automated exchange of vehicle registration data in latvia. it is an administrative formality, because parliament is only consulted, but it is an important act because of the message we are delivering.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to allow latvia to receive and transmit vehicle registration data. the text is part of the desire to promote the exchange of information between the member states of the european union and to strengthen cross-border cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the proposal for a council implementing decision authorising latvia, in order to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, to receive and transmit personal data for the purpose of automated searching of vehicle registration data. we are opposed to the automatic and widespread transmission of personal data of french citizens. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to adopt a proposal for a directive on the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. while i recognise the right to the presumption of innocence, and its core principles, as a fundamental right, i am strongly opposed to eu interference in criminal law matters, which is the exclusive competence of the member states. i am opposed to the harmonization of criminal law at european level and therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ criminal proceedings should be a matter for the sovereignty of the member states alone. the european union is working to harmonize this principle from below. for example, as regards the burden of proof, the text shifts the burden of proof to the detriment of the accused. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution, the fruit of a long work by my colleague nathalie griesbeck, because it is a concrete legislative text that works for the rights of the defence of every citizen. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and above all an essential principle for preventing arbitrary judgments and abuses in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to adopt a proposal for a directive to strengthen certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at one's trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right. the report also considers that the commission has taken a too minimal approach and questions the lack of ambition of this initial proposal which would risk harmonising national provisions 'downwards'. criminal law is a matter for the member states. i am opposed to the union's interference and to any attempt to create a european criminal law. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ while i support the principles mentioned in this report, such as the presumption of innocence, the right to remain silent, the right not to cooperate, the fact that the burden of proof rests with the prosecution, and that the accused must benefit from the doubt, i am firmly opposed to any interference of european law in national law. i do not see any need for a european criminal law. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at one's trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle which obliges states to consider any person innocent until he has been convicted by a court of law. this new text will apply at all stages from the moment a person is suspected. it provides in particular for the prohibition on public authorities making public statements about allegedly guilty persons. furthermore, the burden of proof is the responsibility of the prosecutor. i voted in favour of this report as an important step towards the creation of a european judicial area.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to propose a european framework for strengthening the protection of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. however, criminal law is a fundamental area of justice that has already been badly abused by recent reforms. the interference of the european union in this area is unacceptable and affects both the prerogatives of the king and the corpus of fundamental rights that france has developed. i am committed to the sovereignty of states, particularly in criminal matters, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that criminal procedure and criminal law should remain the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the presumption of innocence, which was the result of negotiations between the council and parliament, is a cornerstone of the legislative package on the procedural rights of citizens in criminal proceedings; the package also includes a proposal covering child guarantees and another covering legal aid. the presumption of innocence, on the other hand, enshrines a principle of fundamental law which must be applied at all stages of criminal proceedings. in the negotiations, it is important to stress the particularly firm position of parliament vis-à-vis the council in order to enforce a principle of fundamental law according to which the burden of proof should fall on the prosecution. the compromise also makes it possible to establish the right to silence as an absolute right. it also strengthens the provisions on the right not to incriminate oneself. the text thus obtained is balanced and very satisfactory. member states will have two years to transpose this text; it is therefore to be hoped that it will make it possible to harmonize the essential modalities surrounding the presumption of innocence as soon as possible. we in parliament will be attentive to this.
in writing. ‒ the institutions, in the context of interinstitutional negotiations, have succeeded in proposing a balanced approach with regard to the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at one's own trial in criminal proceedings. so i decided to support this approach. for the french, in general, the right to a fair trial is a given principle. unfortunately, this is not so evident in all member states. in reality, our reading varies from one country to another and that is why the legislators have wanted to define, in respect of national sovereignty, common minimum rules governing certain aspects of the right to the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues from the front national, we believe that criminal proceedings should not be a matter for the sovereignty of the member states. the european union is undertaking a harmonization project on the basis of this fine principle. for example, as regards the burden of proof, the text shifts the burden of proof to the detriment of the accused. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague nathalie griesbeck on the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at her trial. the purpose of this text is to establish common minimum rules governing certain aspects of the right to the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle of the judicial system and the basis of the right of defence. she'll be better protected at all stages until the verdict is rendered. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to guarantee respect for the right to a fair trial in the union by defining minimum rules common to all countries, in particular concerning the right to the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence directive will allow this key concept to be incorporated into all national legislation in the eu member states within two years. in particular, the text calls for the burden of proof to be placed on the prosecutors; it recognizes the right of the accused to remain silent, without being held against them and also asks that an accused person not be automatically handcuffed or his movements impeded. these practices may seem common, but legal traditions differ from one country to another and it is especially important that the european union prevents any retreat from fundamental rights, while some governments may be tempted to question them. it is also important to show that the european union can be a source of progress, of defending certain rights, while its economic policy is still associated, rightly, with serious social recessions. i therefore supported this directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. these are, of course, fundamental rights to which i am committed. these rights are guaranteed in france and in the other member states. the report criticises the commission for taking too minimal an approach and questions the 'lack of ambition' of this initial proposal, which would risk harmonising national provisions 'downwards'. criminal law is a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states. i am opposed to the union's interference and to any attempt to create a 'european' criminal law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that criminal proceedings should be a matter for the member states' sovereignty alone. the european union uses the presumption of innocence - this fine principle which france proclaimed in article 9 of the 1789 declaration - to increase its scope for action. and with what result? in order to risk harmonising the presumption of innocence downwards, the report hesitates to take a position on fundamental issues such as the possible reversal of the burden of proof to the detriment of the accused.
in writing. another interference by the european union in the competences of the states. in this case, if this report defends basic principles of criminal law, which i of course support (presumption of innocence and its corollaries, such as the right to remain silent, the right to be present at trial, etc.), there is no question of the european union interfering in this crucial area of justice. yes to the specificity of the state in such important areas of competence, and no to the establishment of a european criminal law. my vote against this text is therefore not motivated by a question of the criminal principles in question, but by a firm determination not to abandon this specific part of our national sovereignty to europe.
in writing. - i voted against it. the european commission is not happy that criminal law is a member state competence in which europe does not have to interfere. we recognise that the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right, as are all the principles surrounding it (burden of proof on the prosecution, right to remain silent, right not to incriminate oneself and not to cooperate, right to be present at one's trial, etc.). this attempt by the union to create a european criminal law is wrong and we oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the stockholm programme focused on strengthening the rights of individuals in criminal proceedings. the european council therefore invited the commission to consider proposing minimum procedural rights for suspects or accused persons, with a view to promoting better cooperation in this area in the european union. the commission proposal as amended by parliament does indeed guarantee the presumption of innocence. suspects shall be presumed innocent until proven guilty by a final decision rendered in accordance with the law, in a trial during which they have had all the guarantees necessary for their defence but also the right to remain silent, to be present at his trial and the right to a fair trial. the text also ensures that the burden of proof is on the prosecution. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues from the front national, we believe that criminal proceedings should not be a matter for the sovereignty of the member states. the european union is undertaking a harmonization project on the basis of this fine principle. for example, as regards the burden of proof, the text shifts the burden of proof to the detriment of the accused. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to adopt a proposal for a directive to strengthen certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at one's trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right. the principle that the burden of proof is on the prosecution and that any doubt as to guilt should be to the benefit of the accused, the right to remain silent, the right not to incriminate oneself and not to cooperate, the right to be present at one's trial are also central elements of the presumption of innocence. these are principles we recognize. the report, however, considers that the commission has taken too minimal an approach and questions the lack of ambition of this initial proposal which would risk harmonising national provisions 'downwards'. criminal law is a matter for the member states. we oppose the union's interference and any attempt to create a european criminal law; i am not going to vote for this text.
in writing. ‒ criminal law is a competence of the member states. i am opposed to the union's interference and to any attempt to create a european criminal law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to define common minimum rules governing certain aspects of the right to the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. this text, which is part of the package on procedural rights, is intended to guarantee respect for the right to a fair trial. it is also about building confidence among member states in the criminal justice systems of other member states and, as a result, facilitating mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ the report on the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings aims to ensure respect for the right to a fair trial. i voted in favour of the report, considering that the establishment of common procedural rules is fundamental.
in writing. this report, which is part of the stockholm process, emphasises the protection of accused persons and the need to implement a procedure providing a minimum legal basis of rights for suspects, in order to harmonise the principle of the 'presumption of innocence' in europe. i voted in favour of this report, which guarantees legal certainty and prevents abuse in criminal proceedings. the report also refers to the european and international conventions that the union is obliged to respect in this area. finally, with this report, the union is thus strengthening the principle that the burden of proof lies with the prosecution, the principle that any doubt as to guilt should be in the interests of the defence, and the right to remain silent and the right to be present at the trial.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal for a directive which aims to strengthen certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at one's trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right. the principle that the burden of proof is on the prosecution and that any doubt as to guilt should benefit the prosecution, the right to remain silent, the right not to incriminate oneself and not to cooperate, and the right to be present at one's trial are also central elements of the presumption of innocence. these are principles which i, of course, recognize and defend strongly. but the report takes the view that the commission has taken too minimal an approach and questions a lack of ambition which would risk harmonising national provisions downwards . criminal law is a sovereign competence of the member states. i am firmly opposed to the union's interference and any attempt to create a european criminal law. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it emphasizes the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial, two principles which are now fundamental to our national law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european commission directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right and a fundamental principle to avoid arbitrariness and abuse in criminal proceedings. this is a principle that underlies the protection of the right to a fair trial. this directive will apply at all stages of criminal proceedings, from the moment a person is suspected of having committed a criminal offence or an alleged criminal offence, or is prosecuted for it, until the final decision as to whether that person has committed the criminal offence concerned has become final. the right to be present at the trial, the right to remain silent or the burden of proof are also specified in this text.
in writing. ‒ too often, the european union is perceived as a technocratic monster far removed from the concerns of our citizens. it is, however, a powerful tool for promoting and guaranteeing the rights of every european. at a time when europe is experiencing a wave of regression in human rights and freedom of expression, i fully support this report which aims to defend the right to the presumption of innocence and to guarantee the principle of a fair trial for all. the european parliament has fought against any possibility of reversing the burden of proof in the face of the council, the european commission and the right wing: everyone is presumed innocent until proven guilty. once the council has approved the proposal for a directive, it will have to be transposed into the law of all the member states. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. it is by building walls against arbitrariness, by guaranteeing the rights of all, that the european union is great and gets closer to its citizens. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to adopt a proposal for a directive to strengthen certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at one's trial in criminal proceedings. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right. the principle that the burden of proof is on the prosecution and that any doubt as to guilt should benefit the prosecution, the right to remain silent, the right not to incriminate oneself and not to cooperate, and the right to be present at one's trial are also central elements of the presumption of innocence. these are principles we recognize. the report, however, takes the view that the commission has taken too minimal an approach and questions the 'lack of ambition' of this initial proposal which would risk harmonising national provisions 'downwards'. criminal law is a matter for the member states. we oppose the union's interference and any attempt to create a 'european' criminal law. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the presumption of innocence is fundamental in the current context. it cannot be of variable geometry depending on the individuals or the context. the proposal for a directive submitted to the european parliament aims to implement a minimum set of rights for accused persons. while the european commission's initial proposal aimed at harmonising the directive downwards, the european parliament proposed a more ambitious text and recalled that the presumption of innocence is there to avoid forms of abuse and arbitrariness and to protect the right to a fair trial. in particular, the european parliament introduced provisions reaffirming the right to remain silent, the right to be present at trial and the principle that the accused has the benefit of the doubt. these proposals were accepted by the council. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european legal framework to protect the rights of the defence. i therefore voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes a regulation to replace the 1989 directive on personal protective equipment (ppe). the amendments include an extension of the categories of ppe (e.g. tailor-made ppe), the need to attach a declaration of conformity to each ppe, the designation of new certification bodies and a shorter time to bring it into conformity. i voted against this text because the amendments it proposes will have financial repercussions on manufacturers, and therefore on households and businesses. in addition, they will lead to a considerable increase in the complexity of their production chain, which is already subject to very rigid standards.
in writing. ‒ this report will lead to an additional cost of producing personal protective equipment (ppe), which will raise prices and put a dent in the wheels of manufacturers who are being added to increasingly stringent standards. in the end, it will be the households that will be penalised, as they will no longer be able to buy this type of equipment, which has become too expensive despite negligible safety gains. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report must implement a regulation which will have financial consequences for ppe manufacturers (compliance and administrative burden) and will therefore ultimately weigh on the price and thus on consumers and businesses. manufacturers are already subject to strict standards and the legislator will force manufacturers to constantly question them. the improvements in health or safety are minimal and do not justify these new standards. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the ppe report must implement a new regulation with minor changes that will have significant financial implications for ppe manufacturers. the additional production costs of this revision of the regulation will be borne by households and businesses, while the improvements in safety and health are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the 1989 european legislation on personal protective equipment. the text provides for harmonisation measures to ensure better protection for users of equipment such as bicycle helmets and kitchen gloves through common standards. i voted in favour of this report because i support these objectives.
in writing. i supported this proposal because it contributes to greater clarity and to an improvement in the legislation applicable to personal protective equipment. this measure is beneficial to users as it aims to strengthen the protection of their safety and health.
in writing. ‒ the replacement of the 1989 personal protective equipment directive by the new text supported by this report is a significant widening of the scope of standards which affect many manufacturers of protective equipment. this is a costly change for companies, and may push up prices. the safety gains brought about by these new standards are not commensurate with the regulatory and economic impact. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is too administrative and it risks increasing production costs for businesses.
in writing. ‒ this report implies an additional cost of production of personal protective equipment (ppe), which will result in higher prices. this legislation is putting a crimp in the wheels of manufacturers by adding to them ever more stringent standards. in the end, it is the households that will be the ones who will be penalised, since they will no longer be able to buy this type of equipment, which has become too expensive. all for negligible security gains. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague vicky ford on personal protective equipment. the purpose of this text is to update the current directive by encouraging better cooperation in order to benefit in particular from common definitions at european level.
in writing. ‒ this report, for which i voted, deals with the strengthening and harmonisation of legislation on protective equipment, such as work gloves, helmets, suits, masks and other protective equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on personal protective equipment. the concerns of households and businesses are light years away from an already demanding new ppe regulation. this regulation will have significant financial consequences for ppe manufacturers (compliance and increased administrative burden), and thus on the final price of the product placed on the market. the extra production costs of this revision of the regulation will ultimately be borne by households and businesses. the legislator will force manufacturers to constantly question their production chain, which will be very problematic for manufacturers already subject to strict standards. the improvements in safety and health (and even the environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it imposes an additional cost on the production of personal protective equipment (ppe), which will increase the price of ppe. this is discouraging to manufacturers, who are subject to increasingly stringent standards, and may encourage households to stop buying their products, which have become too expensive. and all for negligible security gains.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a regulation to replace the 1989 directive on personal protective equipment (ppe), which is considered to be obsolete. the changes introduced by this text include the extension of the categories of ppe, the need to attach a declaration of conformity by each ppe, the designation of new certification bodies and the reduction of the time taken to bring them into conformity. these changes will have a financial impact on the companies producing such equipment and on their customers, whether private or professional. finally, as is often the case with european regulations, it will overburden an already very restrictive legislation for ppe producers.
in writing. - i voted against this text. ppe (personal protective equipment) is equipment intended to protect a person against a risk that may threaten his safety or health, mainly at work, but also in the context of sports or leisure activities (safety footwear, protective clothing, sunglasses, harnesses, etc.). among other things, this regulation will introduce new 'categories' of ppe, which will broaden the scope of the text, an obligation to attach a declaration of conformity to every ppe made available on the market, and the designation of new certification bodies and a shorter time to bring it into conformity. this text is intended to be positive but will in fact have very little impact in terms of safety and health. however, it will have significant financial consequences for ppe manufacturers and this extra cost of production will be borne by households and businesses. the employment itself is likely to suffer from this regulation. there was no need to establish new standards.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to define, by means of a regulation, the essential requirements which personal protective equipment must satisfy in order to be made available on the european union market. this wide range of equipment includes personal protective equipment such as motorcycle helmets and occupational protective equipment. parliament's amendments add to the initial list of equipment to protect against oxygen deficiency (e.g. diving equipment), chemicals, biological agents, radiation and radioactive contamination. i am voting for this text which promotes security.
in writing. ‒ this report implies an additional cost of production of personal protective equipment (ppe), which will result in higher prices. this legislation is putting a crimp in the wheels of manufacturers by adding to them ever more stringent standards. in the end, it will be the households that will be penalised, as they will no longer be able to buy this type of equipment, which has become too expensive. all for negligible security gains. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this regulation will have considerable financial consequences for ppe manufacturers (compliance and increased administrative burden) and thus on the final price of the product placed on the market. the extra production costs of this revision of the regulation will ultimately be borne by households and businesses. the legislator will force manufacturers to constantly question their production chain, which will be very unwelcome to manufacturers already subject to strict standards. employment is likely to suffer from this new regulation. the improvements in safety and health (or even the environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on personal protective equipment. the aim was to approve the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, the aim of which is to improve the internal market and consumer protection for this type of product.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment has generated a broad consensus. i voted in favour of the report to show my support for a proposal which i consider to be fair and clear.
in writing. this report on personal protective equipment is intended to replace an earlier text dating from 1989. although the amendments are not very numerous, its scope is widening. however, neither the provisions relating to employees, nor the opinions of smes, nor measures to simplify procedures were finally included in the report, which led me to abstain in the vote in plenary.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation replaces the 1989 directive on personal protective equipment (ppe). this new regulation will have significant financial consequences for ppe manufacturers (compliance and increased administrative burden) and thus on the final price of the product placed on the market. the extra production costs of this revision of the regulation will ultimately be borne by households and businesses. the legislator will force manufacturers to permanently challenge their production chain, even though they are already subject to strict standards. it could hurt jobs. the improvements in safety and health (or even the environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i would like to highlight here the proposal of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection which excluded kitchen taps from the regulation, for example, and thereby showed that a reasonable compromise could be found between consumer protection, the requirements of the single market and the position of manufacturers. the report therefore deserves the support of those of you who are not directly members of our committee.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to ensure the best possible protection of users of personal protective equipment. that is why i have approved this text, which is now a regulation. a means of enforcing the regulations more uniformly.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text on personal protective equipment, which incorporates the terms of the agreement between the institutions on the regulatory requirements to be laid down for such products, in order to ensure their free movement within the union and a high degree of protection for their users, whether for private or professional purposes. what does personal protective equipment actually represent? these include safety shoes and gloves, life jackets, construction helmets, hearing protectors, safety glasses, safety harnesses. as rapporteur for my political group on this text, i welcome the result finally achieved. in particular, we have succeeded in defining a simplified procedure for the renewal of certificates for equipment which has not been modified since its previous certification, while maintaining a 'safety net' for all. with these new balanced rules, we are achieving our objective, avoiding unnecessary burdens and improving safety.
in writing. ‒ the placing on the eu market of personal protective equipment (ppe) has been fully harmonised since 1989 by directive 89/686/eec. the current legislation on ppe needs to be aligned with the new legislative framework (nlf), a package of measures to improve and simplify product regulation in the single market. i supported this report which stresses that the common approach in the context of the ncl clarifies the powers of market surveillance authorities by allowing the tracking and return of dangerous products placed on the single market. the text also recalls the obligations of economic operators.
in writing. ‒ this regulation will have significant financial consequences for ppe manufacturers (compliance and increased administrative burden) and thus on the final price of the product placed on the market. the extra production costs of this revision of the regulation will ultimately be borne by households and businesses. the legislator will force manufacturers to constantly question their production chain, which will be very badly perceived by manufacturers, already subject to strict standards. the improvements in safety and health (see environment) are minimal and do not justify the establishment of new standards. the commission has tried to regulate the use of gloves, which was fortunately rejected by meps but is significant in that it lacks any sense of priorities. i vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to replace the 2009 gas appliances directive with the aim of simplifying the legislation and defining the obligations of the economic operators concerned (manufacturers, agents, importers and distributors). the main measures in the text are the obligation to install and maintain gas ovens by professionals for safety reasons, the obligation to inform consumers of the health and safety risks and the introduction of ce marking (compliance with the requirements) of appliances. however, this text contains very few changes compared to the current directive. moreover, under the pretext of a desire to increase security, it presents a political objective aimed at harmonizing the internal market. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ there is little change in this text compared to the current directive, the primary aim of which is to harmonise the internal market, not security, as is claimed. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the proposal from the parliament and the council on gas appliances. the objective stated is the safety and health of users, since the report sets out obligations for the economic operators concerned, particularly with regard to the risk of carbon monoxide production by certain appliances; for example, a gas furnace can only be installed and maintained by a professional who is responsible for checking the safety of combustion. if i have the safety and health of my fellow citizens at heart, i have had to oppose this text, which on the one hand does not bring anything new or different from the previous directive on the subject and, on the other hand, under the guise of more protection, actually has as its framework the harmonization of the internal market by regulation, that is to say, this single european market which ultimately aims at a globalised economy to the detriment of the national common good.
in writing. ‒ this regulation aims to replace the 2009 european directive on gas appliances. the text does not change the scope of the previous directive but amends certain provisions, in particular as regards the obligations of economic operators. in practice, only professionals will be able to install and maintain gas appliances. this type of appliance is a danger to consumers because it can emit carbon monoxide if it is not installed correctly. the report also calls on national authorities to ensure that consumers are better informed about the dangers of gas appliances. this regulation makes very few changes to the previous directive in terms of user safety. the european commission, on the other hand, sees the new regulation as a further step in its drive to fully harmonise the internal market. the european union is therefore using a false pretext for purely political purposes. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ european harmonisation of gas appliance rules was necessary to improve the efficiency of the sector. one of the union's priorities is to complete the single market. this would allow businesses to benefit from a more conducive environment for the smooth running of their business and consumers to obtain the same protections regardless of the country in which they reside. i voted in favour of this report, which perfectly highlights the need to complete the single market and the need to use energy rationally.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to update the 2009 eu legislation on the free movement of gas appliances by harmonising the conditions for placing gas appliances on the market or putting them into service. gas is an important sector in the european economy, covering a wide range of products (boilers, furnaces). every year, more than 30 million of these devices are sold. the main objective of this text is to improve consumer safety and to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the leading cause of death in europe in relation to gas appliances. i have supported this report because the gas sector in europe employs almost 480 000 people and offers many practical solutions to consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve and simplify the legislation applicable to gas appliances. the aim of this measure is to strengthen the guarantee of quality of products offered on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ as part of the internal market harmonization package, the proposal for a regulation amending a 2009 directive strengthens the regulatory constraints on the installation and use of gas appliances. the obligation to inform and label the products concerned is also increased, but the safety gains for consumers are minor. on the other hand, this text contributes to the strengthening of the internal market and regulatory harmonization, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is more concerned with harmonisation than with security.
in writing. ‒ this text is little changed from the current directive. the underlying reason for this report is the harmonization of the internal market, not security as it is claimed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague catherine stihler on the regulation on gas appliances. the proposal for a regulation aims to replace directive 2009/142/ec, which harmonises the conditions for placing gas appliances on the market and putting them into service by guaranteeing essential requirements for their sale in the single market. the text thus strengthens consumer safety and the precautionary measures have been amended to better combat carbon monoxide poisoning. i welcome the fact that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which called for the conditions for placing gas appliances on the market to be harmonised, in particular by imposing safety standards and the rational use of this energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on gas appliances, as the text makes few changes to the current directive and the objective is not safety but regulatory harmonisation of the internal market. it is part of the 'harmonisation of the internal market' package, and concern for public safety is in fact only a pretext.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it makes little change to the existing directive. its objective is not so much to improve security as to further harmonize the internal market.
in writing. ‒ until now, gas appliances were governed by a 2009 european directive. the aim of this report is to replace it, in order to simplify the legislation by defining the obligations of economic operators in the sector (manufacturers, agents, importers, distributors). the text requires buyers or owners of gas furnaces to have them installed and maintained by a professional for safety reasons, to inform consumers about the health and safety risks of the products, and to put in place a ce marking that complies with the requirements. under the guise of simplification, this report changes little or nothing to the existing regulation. moreover, under the pretext of security, it is part of a desire to harmonize the internal market. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this useless report does not introduce anything new and merely replaces an existing text by making minor changes. the text itself is not aimed at security but at harmonizing the internal market by means of regulations. voting against will not undermine the security of our citizens and we are firmly opposed to any step towards strengthening the internal market.
in writing. ‒ this text is little changed from the current directive. the underlying reason for this report is the harmonization of the internal market, not security, as it claims. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this regulation replaces a 2009 directive on gas appliances in line with the objective of simplifying legislation. this text defines the obligations of the economic operators concerned (manufacturers, agents, importers and distributors), which already largely exist at national level. since the text is little changed from the existing directive and the objective is not safety but harmonization of the internal market by means of regulations, we will not vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this is a regulation on user safety and health, which requires us to be cautious in the way we vote. since the text is little changed from the existing directive and the objective is not safety but the harmonization of the internal market by means of regulations, i am opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on gas appliances. the aim was to approve the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aimed at improving the internal market and consumer protection for this type of product. the gas appliance sector is very important in the union, employing 476 000 people and covering a wide range of products. over 30 million of these devices are sold every year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the stihler report. the proposal for a regulation aims to replace directive 2009/142/ec, which is an example of union harmonisation legislation, guaranteeing the free movement of gas appliances. it has contributed significantly to the completion and functioning of the single market and harmonises the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances falling within its scope as regards the safety risks related to gas and the rational use of energy. directive 2009/142/ec lays down the essential requirements with which gas appliances must comply in order to be made available on the union market. provisions were introduced following alignment with the decision on the new legislative framework (ncl). the gas sector plays an important role in the union's economy, and 476 000 people are employed in the gas appliance sector alone. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from simple gas stoves to boilers in large buildings, and the current stock of gas appliances in europe is 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units sold each year.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation on gas appliances is part of the search for greater consumer safety. i therefore voted in favour of the report, allowing for the updating of the indication of compliance with european standards for greater transparency.
in writing. this rather technical report concerns the market and use of gas appliances in europe. it makes it possible to move from a directive to a regulation and, therefore, to take further harmonization within the union. with the additional definitions and clarifications, and with the introduction of measures on the eco-design of its devices, this report seems to me to be a positive one, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ since the text makes few changes to the existing directive and the objective is not safety but the harmonisation of the internal market by means of regulations, i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because it sets out the essential requirements to be met by gas appliances on the eu market. the gas sector plays an important role in the union's economy. this text pays particular attention to consumer safety. it focuses on precautions against carbon monoxide poisoning, which remains the leading cause of death in europe from gas appliances.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on a regulation to replace the 2009 directive on the free movement of gas appliances. that directive laid down in particular the essential requirements to be met by gas appliances in order to be made available on the union market. the aim of this text is to improve consumer safety, given that carbon monoxide poisoning is the leading cause of death in europe for gas appliances, while maintaining the objectives of competitiveness of the gas sector in europe.
in writing. ‒ the regulation makes very few changes to the directive already in force (transposition into national law). the objective is not security but the harmonization of the internal market by means of regulations. i'm against it. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to replace the 2000 cable installations directive. in fact, despite some interesting technical proposals, this regulation does not meet any of the needs of the professionals concerned and only reinforces the regulatory constraints to which they are subject. finally, the current directive is a satisfactory standard in a sector which is doing well. so there's no point in changing it.
in writing. ‒ this report requires the ce marking of cable installations. once again, the union is allowing itself to be subjected to an unnecessary and costly requirement when there are already many quality controls. that's why i objected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ i did not think it appropriate to vote in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cable installations. first mistake: the only real purpose of the regulation is to replace a european directive of 2000 in order to avoid any national transposition law, that is to say to override the prerogatives of the national parliaments again. the directive in force already regulates the construction and operation of cable installations such as funiculars, cable cars, cable cars, etc. the future regulation is only intended to harmonise european standards for subsystems and components - in particular the requirement to provide a declaration of conformity for those subsystems and components bearing the ce mark - in the name of the holy single market. however, european companies already dominate the sector, including a franco-italian group which generates 80% of the sector's turnover in the eu. we are therefore once again faced with an attempt to produce more standards - the existing standards being sufficient - in a european manner, to the detriment of our own economic and industrial interests.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to replace the current european directive governing the construction and operation of cable installations such as cable cars, cable cars or chairlifts. the report recommends harmonizing european standards for subsystems and safety components. the new regulation, which the text promotes, would also require the involvement of notified bodies in the production and design phases and a safety analysis of all plant projects in progress. we consider that the current legislation provides sufficient guarantees for the safety of users of such installations. the new regulation therefore seems to us to be unnecessary, or even harmful to those in a healthy industry, since it will put additional constraints on manufacturers. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to update european legislation on cable installations and the marketing of equipment. these include funiculars, cable cars and cable cars, which are very common in mountainous areas. the main objective of this text is to strengthen the safety of these installations by means of common rules for conformity assessment and market surveillance by public authorities. it should be noted that historic installations are excluded from the scope of this text. i have supported this report because i believe that these rules are intended to introduce common and protective safety standards at union level without any additional bureaucracy for companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve and simplify the legislation applicable to cable installations. this measure is beneficial to users as it aims to provide a high level of protection of user safety.
in writing. ‒ although the text contains several interesting technical points, this regulation is not justified by a request or any need from the professionals in the sector (manufacturers, companies). the standards already in force in this area appear to be satisfactory. i believe that normative inflation should be avoided wherever possible, and as the saying goes, 'too much regulation kills regulation', i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not seek to require real additional safety standards.
in writing. ‒ this report requires that cable installations be ce marked. this is again an unnecessary and costly requirement, given the many quality controls already in place. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr antonio lopez-isturiz white, on the regulation on cable installations. the aim of this text is to update existing european legislation in the light of the new legislative framework. the aim is therefore to clarify european standards and to achieve harmonisation between member states. the harmonised approach will cover, in particular, conformity assessment procedures and the ce marking. i welcome the fact that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sought to harmonise the conditions for placing cable installations (cable cars, funiculars, cable cars, etc.) on the market, to improve safety in connection with these installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the union.
in writing. - i voted against the cable installations report. the text, although it contains some interesting technical points, does not reveal any additional safety requirements claimed by manufacturers or companies in the sector. a regulation is therefore not a priori useful, since the standards in force are already satisfactory and the european industry is in good health. since the ce marking is not a mark of origin but an additional quality control requirement for manufacturers, it is appropriate to refuse a normative over-bid which in any case penalises the operators in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it requires cable installations to be ce marked. this is a superfluous requirement in view of the quality controls in place.
in writing. - if there is nothing shocking in this report, i voted against it. it is intended to replace the 2000 directive on cable installations (cable cars, funiculars, cable cars, etc.). however, this directive already set out a satisfactory level of requirements, particularly in terms of safety standards. finally, this regulation does not address a specific need of the professionals concerned and only reinforces the regulatory constraints (including ce marking) they face. so there is no need to add to a sector which is doing well overall.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report is intended to replace a 2000 directive in force in order to avoid any national transposition legislation. it provides for the construction and operation of cable installations (cable cars, cable cars, cable cars, chairlifts, etc.) with harmonized safety requirements. the future regulation is concerned with harmonising european standards for safety subsystems and components, which are now included in the extended definition of 'cable installations'. this text does not indicate any additional safety requirements claimed by manufacturers or companies in the sector. it is ultimately limited to adding an additional constraint and to playing the normative over-bid. we are against it.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to harmonise the regulation on gas appliances. the report introduces the requirement for ce marking on gas appliances to ensure conformity. it extends this obligation to related equipment. these rules and measures are essential to prevent gas poisoning, particularly carbon monoxide (co), and leakage of any substance harmful to health and posing a safety hazard. the precise report pushes attention to detail to the point of defining "cooking", since the appliances in question are most often cooking appliances. it is "the art or practice of preparing or heating food for consumption by means of heat and a wide variety of methods". from chemistry to gastronomy, europe still has a long way to go. i am voting for this text, which, although its main aim is to make the market more efficient, will also increase information and user safety.
in writing. ‒ this report requires cable installations to be ce marked. this is again an unnecessary and costly requirement, given the many quality controls in place. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to replace an existing directive governing the construction and operation of cable installations (cable cars, cable cars, cable cars, chairlifts, cable cars, etc.) with a regulation. while the directive sets out harmonised safety requirements, the future regulation aims to harmonise european standards for subsystems and safety components, now covered by the extended definition of cable installations. the text does not indicate any additional safety requirements claimed by manufacturers or companies in the sector. it is therefore not useful in the light of the already satisfactory standards in force and the good health of the european industry. since the ce marking is not a mark of origin but an additional quality control requirement imposed on manufacturers, it is necessary to reject a normative over-bidding which in any way penalizes the operators in the sector.
in writing. ‒ this text does not indicate any additional safety requirements claimed by manufacturers or companies in the sector. a priori, a regulation is not useful, since the standards in force are already satisfactory and the european industry is healthy. since the ce marking is not a mark of origin but an additional quality control requirement for manufacturers, it is appropriate to refuse a normative over-bid which in any case penalises the operators in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on cable installations. the aim was to approve the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aimed at improving the internal market and consumer protection for this type of product.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the cable installations report, considering it necessary to align the current legislation with the new legislative framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to modernise legislation on submarine cables and to make it more effective in the union by converting it from a directive into a regulation. the report calls for full harmonization of the rules and conditions for placing on the market of safety subsystems and components for cableway installations. it also lays down the necessary safety requirements for users, operators, workers and third parties. environmental protection, marketing authorization, the management of compliance with pre-1986 installations and the management of submarine cables on land remain the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the text does not indicate any additional safety requirements requested by manufacturers or companies in the sector. a new regulation is therefore not useful, since the existing standards are satisfactory and the industry is healthy. the ce marking is not a mark of origin but an additional quality control requirement imposed on manufacturers. i reject this regulatory over-bidding which penalizes the players in the sector and i therefore vote against this useless text at best.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a regulation on cable installations, which aims to harmonise eu legislation. the proposal aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products within the union.
in writing. ‒ the regulation (replacing an existing directive) would require: - the involvement of notified bodies in the production and design phase; - the provision of a declaration of conformity of subsystems and safety components bearing the ce mark; - a safety analysis of all current plant projects is required, conditioning their possible operation. note: lifts and other specific equipment are excluded from the scope of the regulation. it is interesting to note that no additional safety requirements are being requested by the professionals in the sector. a regulation is therefore not a priori useful, since the standards in force are satisfactory and the european industry is healthy. since the ce marking is not a mark of origin but an additional quality control requirement for manufacturers, it is necessary to reject a normative over-bid which in any way penalizes the operators in the sector. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ there is no question of allowing a delegated act to extend the scope of generalised trade preferences, which could only worsen the situation of european businesses. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this eug resolution on an objection to a delegated act on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. while the reasons given by this political group for opposing such a delegated act may seem trivial, in particular because of the interference and a certain cultural imperialism with regard to the kyrgyz republic, it is certainly not appropriate at the present time to offer this country a tariff preferential regime, in particular a reduction or even a gradual abolition of customs duties on its exports to the eu. apart from the fact that kyrgyzstan does not currently comply with the so-called 'relevant' conventions provided for in regulation (eu) no 978/2012 to become a gsp+ beneficiary, i am in principle opposed to the extension of the scope of trade preferences, which is part of the logic of a globalised single market. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the kyrgyz republic continues to violate numerous international conventions, practices torture, does not allow detainees to benefit from a lawyer and allows ethnic conflicts to take root within its borders. there is therefore no reason to grant this country an exemption from customs duties with the european union, through the gsp+ scheme, for reasons of 'good governance'. i am committed to respect for international law, including conventions, and i voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection because it is unthinkable to allow a delegated act to extend the scope of generalised trade preferences, which could only worsen the situation of european companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution of the european united left on the objection to a delegated act on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for kyrgyzstan. this objection was to reject the tariff preferences granted to kyrgyzstan. the reasons given by the eug did not in my view justify the total challenge to this delegated act of the european union. that objection was rejected, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the objection to a delegated act on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. this report lists a number of human rights violations in kyrgyzstan. i do not see why this country should be granted the benefit of the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, which consists of exempting certain imports from this country from customs duties.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the european union may grant a requesting country the benefit of a special tariff arrangement if the requesting country respects sustainable development and good governance gsp+ (special scheme of generalised preferences). this scheme allows, among other things, exemption from customs duties on 6 000 tariff lines. the conditions for being gsp+ are to promote sustainable development, protect human rights and democracy. the kyrgyz republic is guilty of serious failings: torture is still practised, ethnic conflicts are commonplace, defendants are still denied access to a lawyer, and so on. in these conditions, the kyrgyz republic cannot be claimed to have "good governance", and it is normal to exclude it from this scheme.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to grant kyrgyzstan a new status allowing exemptions from customs duties, by means of a delegated act in which neither parliament nor the council have a say. this resolution, which was tabled by my group, calls into question the validity of the act. delegated acts are supposed to deal with 'non-essential elements of legislative acts', but are regularly the means for the commission to bring them into force. the new status granted to kyrgyzstan is not a new one. it is theoretically awarded to countries on the basis of their good compliance with key international human rights conventions. however, kyrgyzstan regularly violates these rights: torture by the repressive forces, a corrupt judicial system, and the abuse of freedom of expression, as has been demonstrated recently by various international monitoring bodies. in terms of both the political background and the form used, this commission act is yet another symbol of the human rights of variable geometry defended by the commission and immediately put back in the closet when they do not allow the union's free trade area to be extended. the anti-russian intent of this new attempt at annexation cannot escape me. i support this initiative which denounces
in writing. ‒ this is a delegated act to extend the scope of trade preferences, which could only worsen the situation of european businesses. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the kyrgyz republic violates numerous international conventions, continues to practice torture and allows ethnic conflicts to develop. it would make no sense to give it zero customs duties with the union, on the basis of good governance , through the gsp+ scheme. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eug's objection to the generalised tariff preferences scheme for kyrgyzstan, which encourages destabilisation by favouring the use of sanctions. political stabilisation should be further encouraged by the union's support to the kyrgyz economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the objection to the delegated act on the granting of the generalised tariff preferences scheme to kyrgyzstan, in view of the country's non-compliance with several conventions of the world labour organisation, the committee against torture and the convention on the rights of the child. the commission should take these elements into account and not include kyrgyzstan in its list of countries with preferential tariffs.
in writing. ‒ in substance, i support this objection to the delegated act on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences, despite some reservations about the wording chosen. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the gue's objection to the granting of the gsp to kyrgyzstan. the country is suffering from economic and political difficulties and its economy must survive certain external pressures. i therefore support the idea of temporarily and modestly helping a country which must not sink into potential instability.
in writing. ‒ the objection proposal submitted has the effect of delaying new positive regulations on information and limitation of pesticides in food for infants. the vote was therefore taken against.
in writing. ‒ this is an objection to a delegated act which aims to regulate the composition and information of baby food from 4 months of age. the rapporteur stresses the importance of breastfeeding, which is desirable but not always possible. it also calls for a review of the maximum permitted sugar content and a total ban on glyphosate. however, the referral of the text will not necessarily produce the desired effects and may even delay some real progress, particularly as regards information on packaging. in addition, efsa is due to produce two opinions on composition and authorised pesticides in 2016. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of this regulation. it should be noted that baby food products are the most regulated and controlled products. it is almost certain that a well-meaning mother who does not want to buy specialized products exposes her child to more pesticides (e.g. 10 times more in breast milk or uncontrolled on fresh products) than with so-called highly standardized industrial products. the manufacturers are already prepared to implement it and this text will not harm babies any more than it does now, on the contrary. that is why i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to a delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based preparations and baby foods. the delegated act in question aims to regulate the composition and information of baby food for babies from 4 months of age, which is a laudable and necessary objective. the referral back of this text proposed by the british ecologist keith taylor seems inappropriate as it would only delay progress in packaging information. baby food is the most controlled product today, and we can only welcome that, because it is about the health and food safety of our children.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, supported by the green group, suggests opposing the commission's draft decision in the context of a delegated act on requirements for cereal-based baby formulae, on the grounds that sugar contents are too high. i would like to remind you that the commission has respected its mandate by applying the highest international standards. it also announced that a new study would be conducted by the european food safety authority and that action would be taken on the basis of its results. for these reasons, i objected to this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection concerning the permitted sugar content of cereal-based preparations and baby food, because it seemed to me to be unfounded. not only is the sugar level fully aligned with the codex alimentarius (the global food code) standard as revised in 2006, but the delegated act also provides for extremely high compositional standards for these specific foods, in particular to reduce their sugar, salt and fat content. in addition, the commission has committed to promptly request a reassessment of the compositional standards of these products from efsa, with a view to further restricting them if necessary. finally, it is not very meaningful to talk about the sugar level of a particular food, it is the sugar level consumed as part of the general diet that counts.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report on the nutrition of infants and young children which states that a number of who rules and precautions are not met with regard to the composition and labelling of cereal-based preparations and baby foods. young children are a vulnerable group in europe and the world, and they must be protected above all else. eating habits and taste determination are fundamental to human health. artificial and early introduction of salt and sugar increases the prevalence of obesity and cardiovascular disease. we have therefore asked the commission to review its copy.
in writing. ‒ the objection is aimed at promoting the feeding of babies exclusively by breastfeeding. although the latter provides irreplaceable immune supplies, it may be impossible or even dangerous if the mother has ingested chemicals. on the other hand, industrial food is tightly controlled. since this objection could have a counterproductive effect, in particular by delaying information on the feeding of babies, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the delegated act has no more drawbacks than the current legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection because its justifications seemed to me completely unfounded. the aim of the report was to challenge a draft text on food for infants and young children (especially jars) and it contained a lot of misinformation. addressing vulnerable populations, it is normal for these foods to meet strict compositional standards, in order to limit the salt, saturated fat, and sugar content. this was the very purpose of the commission's text, which confirmed the current compositional requirements and nutritional standards, which are among the highest in the world.
in writing. ‒ baby food is already very effectively controlled, this objection is frightened unnecessarily by the consequences of the contested text. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to a delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based preparations and baby foods. i consider the objection to be unfounded in that the delegated act already sets very high standards for sugar, salt and fat content. that objection was adopted, which i regret.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the objection to a delegated act on the specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based preparations and baby foods. the rapporteur stresses the importance of breastfeeding, which is desirable but not always possible. it also calls for a review of the maximum permitted sugar content and a total ban on glyphosate. the referral of this text will not necessarily produce the desired effect. it will only delay progress, particularly in relation to certain information on packaging. in addition, efsa is due to produce two opinions on composition and authorised pesticides in 2016. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of this regulation. it should be noted that baby food products are the most regulated and controlled products. it is almost certain that a well-meaning mother who does not want to buy specialized products is exposing her child to more pesticides than with so-called highly standardized industrial products. the manufacturers are already prepared to implement it and this text will not harm babies any more than it does now, on the contrary.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection because i believe that it is unnecessarily concerned about the consequences of the contested text. baby food is very well controlled.
in writing. - i voted against that objection. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the rapporteur welcomes breastfeeding, which is desirable but not always possible, and calls for a review of the maximum sugar content and a total ban on glyphosate. we do not think it is necessary to refer this text back, since it will only delay progress. moreover, baby products are already the most regulated and controlled products. the commission's text will not harm babies any more than it does now. so this opposition is useless.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposes to reject the commission's delegated act on food for infants and young children. the commission allowed baby food to provide 30% of its energy in sugar, which is higher than the recommendations of the who and the scientific committees of the member states, as sugar is a major factor in obesity. the resolution also calls for zero tolerance for pesticides, given the particular vulnerability of the endocrine system of infants and young children. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this objection will not advance the studies currently being carried out by efsa (european food safety authority) on the composition of the products and the presence of pesticides. dietary balance is conceived of as the whole of the diet and not food by food. industry and standards should not be substituted for nutritional education and parental judgment. the deep motivation for this objection is the forced promotion of breastfeeding, which is irreplaceable in terms of immune defenses but not always possible and potentially more dangerous than industrial products because it concentrates the chemicals consumed by the mother in milk. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the objection to this delegated act, which is intended to regulate the composition and information of baby food for babies from 4 months, is raised by a british environmentalist, keith taylor. it stresses the importance of breastfeeding, the revision of sugar levels and the total ban on glyphosate. however, these are already measures that manufacturers are ready to apply and this delegated act may delay the progress of regulation in this area, in particular with regard to information on packaging.
in writing. ‒ the referral of this text via this objection will not necessarily produce the desired effects: it will only delay progress, in particular certain information on packaging. in addition, efsa is due to produce two opinions on composition and authorised pesticides in 2016. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of this regulation. it should be noted that baby food products are the most regulated and controlled products. it is almost certain that a well-meaning mother who does not want to buy specialized products exposes her child to more pesticides (e.g. 10 times more in breast milk or uncontrolled on fresh products) than with so-called highly standardized industrial products. the manufacturers are already prepared to implement it and this text will not harm babies any more than it does now, on the contrary.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which was intended to reject a delegated act on the composition of baby food. i regret that this text was adopted because the delegated act already set extremely high standards for sugar, salt and fat composition, making this objection unfounded.
in writing. ‒ the objection to a delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based preparations and baby foods was, in my view, unfounded. i voted against the objection, as it does not take into account the particularly high standards already provided for in the act.
in writing. i voted in favour of rejecting the commission delegated act on specific compositional and information requirements for cereal-based preparations and baby foods. this objection is justified because the act does not take the necessary measures to prevent obesity in infants and young children, in particular through the reduction of the sugar content recommended by the who. in addition, it would be necessary to prohibit the presence of pesticides in this type of food, because of the particular vulnerability of young people to the dangers of pesticides.
in writing. ‒ the objection is raised by keith taylor, an english environmentalist. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all types of transport. the rapporteur stresses the importance of breastfeeding, which is desirable but not always possible. it also calls for a review of the maximum permitted sugar content and a total ban on glyphosate. the referral of the text to which the objection relates will not necessarily produce the desired effect and will only delay progress, in particular certain information on packaging. in addition, efsa is due to produce two opinions on composition and authorised pesticides in 2016. those opinions shall give rise to revisions of the delegated act. it should be noted that baby food products are the most regulated and controlled products. it is almost certain that a well-meaning mother who does not want to buy specialized products exposes her child to more pesticides (e.g. 10 times more in breast milk or uncontrolled on fresh products) than with so-called highly standardized industrial products. the manufacturers are already prepared to implement it and this text will not harm babies any more than it does now, on the contrary. i vote against the objection.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this objection, as did my colleagues from the epp, because we find that the delegated act already sets very high requirements for the composition of these foods. i would like to mention in particular their salt, fat and sugar content. there is therefore no point in duplicating a new procedure which would delay the final objective.
in writing. ‒ the objection relates to a delegated act which aims to regulate the composition and information of baby food from 4 months of age. the rapporteur stresses the importance of breastfeeding, which is desirable but not always possible. it also calls for a review of the maximum permitted sugar content and a total ban on glyphosate. the referral back will not necessarily have the desired effect, but will merely delay progress, particularly with regard to certain information on packaging. in addition, efsa is due to produce two opinions on composition and authorised pesticides in 2016. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of this regulation. it should be noted that baby food products are the most regulated and controlled products. it is almost certain that a well-meaning mother who does not want to buy specialized products exposes her child to more pesticides (e.g. 10 times more in breast milk or uncontrolled on fresh products) than with so-called highly standardized industrial products. the manufacturers are already prepared to implement it and this text will not harm babies any more than it does now, on the contrary. i therefore vote against this objection.
in writing. ‒ the resolution opposes a draft commission act extending the authorisation of sugar levels three times higher than the world health organisation recommendations in food for infants and young children. although i do not share all the analyses of this resolution, the most important thing seems to me to be to continue with the idea of the precautionary principle and to do everything possible to protect young children and infants. the introduction of too much sugary food particularly affects the development of young children and contributes to the increase in childhood obesity, including by influencing their taste in the short and long term. it's a public health problem that's becoming increasingly alarming. in addition, in accordance with the recommendations of international health organizations, there must be zero tolerance for pesticides in these food products. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution opposing the commission's draft act and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the peace process in colombia is a process that it is useful to support, but the union can only parasitize the states directly concerned and the un, whose role in restoring and maintaining peace is very important here.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this resolution concerning the peace process in colombia. i am of course in favour of any dialogue and/or multilateral action that could lead to a peaceful settlement of the internal armed conflict in colombia, which has lasted for more than fifty years and has caused great suffering to the population, whether through terrorist acts or the actions of paramilitary groups. however, the european union is not intended to take the place of sovereign states, or even the un, in processes involving the royal rights of sovereign nations for the former or peacekeeping missions for the latter. however, as the resolution recalls, 'the colombian government, its legislature and the colombian people are sovereign in setting the parameters of this special peace jurisdiction', and there is therefore no reason for the eu to interfere in such a process, whatever the good intentions behind it.
in writing. ‒ the peace process between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) is finally moving forward. the two antagonistic forces have managed to reach realistic agreements on some of the issues that divided them, such as rural reform, the management of illicit drug trafficking and the creation of a peace court. however, much work remains to be done. the european union is a political, economic and commercial partner of colombia. it wants an end to this conflict which has lasted for more than fifty years and has caused many victims among the colombian population. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. by voting, i wanted to support the peacebuilding efforts between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc). the establishment of a trust fund will finance the establishment of a post-conflict justice and reparations system to end impunity.
in writing. ‒ it is certainly not appropriate to oppose a peace process which, at first sight, seems to be working for the common good. the question is whether the european union is not likely to parasitize the states in their royalty functions and the united nations in its primary role of peacekeeping and post-conflict management. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the peace process in colombia can only be welcomed. however, the union can only parasitize the states directly concerned and the un, whose role in restoring and maintaining peace is absolutely essential. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the peace process in colombia. the various groups in the european parliament believe that the european union should promote the peace process under way in colombia between the government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc). both sides must continue to make efforts to find a solution to the conflict between them. at the same time, it is necessary to prosecute war criminals and provide reparations for the victims. that resolution was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the peace process in colombia, as did the other members of the national front. of course, i am never against a peace process, but it must be remembered that the european union has no place in this affair, except to parasitize the states in their royal functions and the un in its primary role of peacekeeping and post-conflict management.
in writing. ‒ the internal armed conflict in colombia, which has lasted for more than 50 years, has led to murders, enforced disappearances, abductions, sexual violence, abuse of minors, displacement of populations, etc. nevertheless, a negotiating table between the government of colombia and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc) was opened in havana, cuba, on 19 november 2012, leading to an agreement on 23 september 2015 to establish a special peace court that would respect the rights of victims and contribute to a stable and lasting peace. the resolution 'takes note with satisfaction of the agreements reached so far between the colombian government and the farc in favour of peace in colombia'. the resolution also notes the important role played by cuba, chile, venezuela and norway. it also stressed the importance of a "genuine effort to combat inequality and poverty" in order to achieve peace. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the peace process in colombia is a process that it is useful to support, but the union can only parasitize the states directly concerned and the un, whose role in restoring and maintaining peace is very important here. therefore, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on support for the peace process in colombia. the text recalls that the establishment of peace must be accompanied by a genuine effort to combat inequality and poverty. it calls in particular for support for the few groups that have suffered disproportionately from the conflict, such as afro-colombians and indigenous peoples. the cooperation framework established by the memorandum of understanding of november 2009 between the european union and colombia provides not only for the strengthening of economic and trade relations between the parties, but also for the consolidation of peace, democracy, respect for human rights, sustainable development and the well-being of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the peace process in colombia, which highlights the gains made by the various agreements between the colombian government and the farc and reaffirms the eu's support for the peace negotiations.
in writing. ‒ of course, i support, in principle, balanced peace processes, but i deny the european union the right to interfere in this type of international affairs. it is up to the states concerned and the un to act, certainly not the union. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i support the peace process currently under way in colombia. after years of civil war, it is time for this country to return to peace and stability. there is still a lot of work to be done, but europe must also send such messages to remind us of its values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the peace process in colombia. the establishment of a stable and lasting peace in colombia is a priority for the european union in the context of its close political, economic and commercial cooperation with the country. the internal armed conflict has lasted for more than 50 years and has caused great suffering to the population, whether through acts of terrorism or the actions of paramilitary groups. in order to provide the best possible support to colombia in the post-conflict phase, we call on the member states to create a trust fund to put an end to impunity, to establish the truth and to try and punish the perpetrators of crimes committed during the conflict so that they do not recur and that the victims receive reparation. finally, it is important to tackle inequality and poverty upstream, for example by helping displaced people and communities, by guaranteeing access to decent work and the recognition of social and labour rights in colombia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which marks the eu's support for colombia in its peace process which began in 2012. after 50 years of uninterrupted armed conflict between the colombian authorities and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia (farc), march 2016 should be the occasion for the signing of a final peace agreement, as provided for in the agreement between the forces involved. this conflict, which has claimed nearly 230 000 lives, must give way to a real rule of law. that is why this resolution calls for the establishment of a special trust fund for colombia to accompany the victims to help them obtain truth, justice and reparations. the union stands by colombia and welcomes the political efforts made by both the colombian authorities and the farc.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this text. this is not to oppose the peace process, but simply to remind the house that the union has nothing to do in this matter except to parasitize the states in their royal functions and the un in its primary role of peacekeeping and post-conflict management.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament has voted a balanced resolution in favour of the peace process in colombia, a country that has been mired in a deadly conflict for more than 60 years. having visited colombia as part of a pge mission last june, i know how much the colombians hope for a final peace agreement. so this is a historic agreement that the colombian government and the farc are reaching; the resolution calls for the establishment of a special peace tribunal to defend the rights of victims and a court capable of prosecuting those responsible for the conflict, including paramilitaries. the agreement's main points are the desire to set up mechanisms of restorative justice capable of compensating all victims, to grant a broad amnesty, to involve the entire colombian people and to reach a bilateral ceasefire as soon as possible, including the involvement of all the actors in the conflict and in particular the other guerrilla of the national liberation army. the peace process must now be brought to a conclusion despite the obstacles posed by former president alvaro uribe. it was important that parliament should support the process, so i voted in favour.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, minister, thank you for being here. in fact, you should have been there as a guest - i think - in the middle of the votes, when the whole house is present, as this is an important subject and deserves to be debated before all members. everyone has rightly congratulated you - your team and yourself - on the very fine work that has been done in paris. i hope you will be able to pass on to the next presidencies the quality of the work and the way you have worked, because i believe that you have also reinvented a form of presidency of the cop. it is often said that you were hesitant at first when it came to france's candidacy. i'm absolutely convinced today that you've had one of the highlights of your career. so, obviously, cop 21, with its goal of getting closer to 1.5 degrees, requires us to move away from fossil fuels. this agreement is weakly constrained, let's face it. we shall see how we can construct the implementation arrangements, but this is a weak constraint. basically, it is based on virtuous circles that will take us from today's 3 °c, which reflect the reality of the commitments of the states, namely climate chaos, to 1.5 °c. but to have these virtuous circles, we need everyone to get involved. so today, conditions are more favorable than ever. we see how renewable energies - for example, photovoltaics or onshore wind - are more competitive than oil, gas, nuclear and soon coal. but at the same time, when we look at the latest figures on investment in renewable energy, we see that all regions of the world are moving forward in investment in renewable energy, except europe, and especially because of france, where investment was cut in half in 2015, when it was growing everywhere. secondly, when we listened to the debate this morning, the president's programme had only one sentence on climate, mr minister, only one sentence on climate! if this is the mood in the council on climate change, i fear that the virtuous circle between states, businesses, local authorities and ngos is not really taking shape. so you have a huge responsibility here, and the commissioner too, to change the mood in the council. we have an important meeting, the summit with the council. to aim for 1.5°c - and the commissioner knows this very well - is to change our objectives for 2020 because we are already well beyond the objectives. but by 2030, it's purging the carbon market, it's changing the focus of renewables as energy savings. and you have a responsibility here, or the council will not move. finally, one last request, mr fabius, please. we're seeing this incredible movement of divestment. so can france take the initiative of an international conference bringing together the major players in finance, banks and institutions on divestment, with a view to marrakesh? take this initiative on behalf of france, and we will continue the movement.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i would first of all like to thank this parliament for holding this important and very timely debate to discuss the humanitarian situation in yemen. let us face it, yemen is too much of a neglected, even forgotten, crisis. it is absolutely necessary that we devote attention to what has been described as a humanitarian crisis of catastrophic proportions, surpassing all others when measured by the number of people in need of immediate assistance. in spite of repeated international condemnation, we are witnessing continuous disregard for the very basic principles of international humanitarian law and human rights law. civilians and civilian infrastructures are being targeted by all parties to the conflict on an almost daily basis. we are particularly concerned by the recent attacks on médecins sans frontières (msf). their facilities in yemen have been attacked, leading to casualties which are yet another example of the violations of international law that occur during this war. the intensity of the humanitarian crisis is constantly on the rise. humanitarian organisations estimate that 21.2 million yemeni people – that is 82% of the total population – are in need of humanitarian assistance; 14.4 million are suffering from food insecurity; 14.1 million are in need of health care and 19.3 million lack access to water and sanitation. the european union has been actively contributing to efforts aimed at resolving the current conflict and restoring basic rights for ordinary yemenis. we are doing so on several tracks. on the humanitarian front, the commission increased its emergency assistance for yemen by eur 17 million in december, bringing the total amount of commission support in the crisis to eur 52 million for 2015. some member states already contribute to emergency and humanitarian assistance and more will follow. the funding benefits the most vulnerable people, including internally displaced persons, refugees, migrants trapped in yemen and those affected by the pre-existing nutrition and food crisis, all of whose situations have deteriorated due to the conflict. the european union will continue to call on all parties to allow access for delivery of humanitarian aid. however, the level of humanitarian funding is only one aspect of the problem. we know this. with a population dependent on imports for 90% of its basic needs, the lifting of all restrictions on commercial imports is equally important. in this respect the european union is working very closely with the united nations and other partners to expedite the implementation of the united nations verification and inspection mechanism to allow the flow of humanitarian and commercial goods into yemen, to which it is contributing eur 2 million. the second track is political. the escalation of hostilities in the second half of 2014, and more prominently since march 2015, has gravely obstructed the achievements and the implementation of the yemeni transition and have left the country on the brink of a humanitarian disaster. the european union, as stated in the conclusions of 20 april and 16 november 2015, strongly believes that the solution to this crisis must be a political one. achieving an inclusive political settlement, fully in line with the framework provided by the gulf cooperation council (gcc) initiative, the outcomes of the national dialogue conference and relevant united nations security council resolutions is the only sustainable way to alleviate the plight of the yemeni people. after united nations facilitated talks in geneva in june, a second round was held in bern, switzerland in december 2015. the european union is closely coordinating with the united nations to continue playing a helpful role with the parties to ensure that the third meeting can take place in the coming days. the conflict has now involved a number of regional players. we encourage all relevant actors to play a positive role towards a lasting political solution of the crisis. one of the main concerns of the european union remains the implementation of immediate steps leading to a durable ceasefire. previous ceasefires have failed to take hold due to multiple violations by the parties and it is crucial that the parties implement confidence-building measures, including the full respect of international human rights and humanitarian law and the release of political prisoners. permanent access for humanitarian and emergency assistance to reach the suffering population, in particular in the city of taiz, but also in saada and other affected regions, must be guaranteed. in yemen’s dramatic situation, ensuring accountability for violations is an important part of the process to achieve a lasting settlement in the current conflict. the united nations human rights council adopted a compromise resolution on 2 october 2015 on technical assistance and capacity building for yemen in the field of human rights, which sets the conditions for a national commission of inquiry, which the eu expects to work independently. i reiterate our call for the independent investigation of all alleged violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law. the european union looks forward to the high commissioner’s oral update at the council’s 31st session and to a comprehensive written report during its 33rd session.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, yemen, which was the scene of a tremendous popular movement in 2011, has been in the midst of a deadly conflict for the past ten months between a coalition led by saudi arabia on the one hand and the houthis, allied with the forces of former president saleh, on the other. in the name of a binary reading grid, we are being led to believe that there is only an internal conflict between "good" sunnis and "bad" shiites the one supported by saudi arabia, aspiring to stability on its borders, and the other by an iran that is hungry for regional influence. it is a failure to recognize the history of the country, the games of alliance of each and every one and the complexity of the political and social situation. one thing is certain: the yemeni population, already among the poorest in the world, is suffering from a mixture of underdevelopment, competition between aqap and daesh, and the bellicism of saudi arabia, that kingdom with medieval practices, which the west turns a blind eye to. indeed, how long will yemen remain a forgotten conflict? will we repeat the mistakes of the syrian conflict? we must not be satisfied with denunciation or humanitarian aid. we must act on the actors and not just hide behind the un and the united states.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, in her statement of 10 january, the high representative condemned the new bombing of a hospital in northern yemen, which killed six people and seriously injured several others, including staff of médecins sans frontières (msf). she spoke of - and i quote - "attacks deliberately targeting humanitarian operations and civilians". but the commission is careful not to demand the opening of an investigation, as msf is asking. i would remind you that this is the third hospital run by msf that is directly targeted by the anti-shia coalition led by saudi arabia. similarly, we rarely hear you condemn the use of cluster munitions by the saudis, weapons that are banned by a un convention signed in 2008. i'm not sure. sorry, i forgot that our saudi friends got their petrodollars to chair the human rights council of this very un. but let me remind you that at a time when there were only poor bedouin in saudi arabia, yemen was already a great civilization - the one of the queen of sheba, mentioned in the old testament. so let us stop allowing the yemeni people to die under saudi bombs and prevent the irreparable destruction of their multi-millennial heritage!
madam president, for more than a month the turkish army has been conducting a rare and violent operation in southeastern turkey, turning this predominantly kurdish region into a war zone with more than 50 towns under curfew. the repression is directed against hdp elected officials, not all of whom are kurds and even less so against pkk members, but also against journalists, trade unionists and academics who have dared to sign a petition denouncing these operations. the fight against terrorism has a good back. no, it is not the pkk that is the origin of the conflict: this is ankara's version. the main victims of the conflict are civilians, including many women and children, including very young children. five-year-old terrorists: who are we kidding? the european union must stop taking a unilateral view of this matter, commissioner. it must do all it can to stop the violence, bring the parties back to the negotiating table and force the turkish government to resume the peace process. the rights of cultural and religious minorities must be recognized. discrimination and repression against them must end. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is urgent to organize an official delegation of our parliament to turkey.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will tell you a secret: a few minutes ago i was still with the turkish delegation. i represented you in this delegation, which is very large and which, ladies and gentlemen, had not met for ten months. during this whole period, the turkish delegation did not meet in the european parliament. why would you do that? because the turkish ambassador to the european union is present at every meeting of the delegation and speaks more than any other member of this delegation. i think it's a denial of democracy. today, turkey is present in the european union, not physically, but through deeds. in relation to the subject of our interest today, i would like to say that there is not a day in turkey without an attack or a murder. unfortunately, turkey is at the very heart of our present situation. the kurdish people should not be confused with turkey. i also think that we should be careful that turkey, under the guise of fighting daesh, has decided to fight its opposition and that in this way turkey is once again demonstrating a lack of real democracy in its actions and within the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what are we looking for in our enlargement policy? what do we want? do we want peace, do we want peace or do we want war? i would like to speak as an alsatian, because we are in strasbourg today. alsace, when it was at the origin of the first and second world wars, was in one camp against another camp, instead of being a bridge. when she wanted to, did she become the bridge? it became the capital of europe. in our enlargement policy, are we seeking confrontation - that is, to pit one side against the other - or are we seeking to build bridges for these countries which belong to two cultures, on the one hand, to the west and, on the other, to the east, being caught up both in the influence of the west and in that of - it must also be said - russia, and even asia? i suggest and i implore you to make your politics bridges to peace.
madam president, the implementation of the association agreements with ukraine, georgia and moldova does not meet any economic imperative for the member states of the european union. on the contrary, and in view of the relatively low economic levels of these three countries, there is no justification at present for extending a free trade area to countries with such low levels of development. the free trade area is already, as you know, generating real economic and social drama in europe. i would also like to point out - you may have heard this - that in moldova, for example, the minimum monthly wage is 43 euros. moldova is a country where 30% of the population lives below the poverty line, but it is also an underground economy that accounts for 40% of gdp. therefore, in the context of the russian embargo, georgia and ukraine are real weapons of massive unfair competition for our farmers, who are having a lot of trouble and are facing difficulties in exporting their agricultural products.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, daesh and those associated with it are the figure of the violent and criminal rejection of all human values, all ideas, of thought itself, camouflaged behind the guise of a religion which they defile by torturing, massacring, killing, beheading everything that does not resemble them: democrats, young people, creators, musicians, kurds, religious minorities living under their iron heel and blood. christians, yazidis, alawites, copts from libya... we must not forget that the main victims of these fascist mercenaries are the muslims. we must therefore fight these monsters without mercy, which should not exempt us from reflecting on the sources that have made it possible to manufacture this terrorism-fascism: a certain western morgue, the culture of the law of the strongest, the smell of oil and money, which daesh loves above all, and wars. the institutions must act without wavering to protect religious minorities, to reverse the criminal nihilism of daesh and to help people to escape from their difficulties and misery by seeking a new framework for euro-mediterranean partnership for human co-development.
mr president, madam high representative, in the convention of 9 december 1948, the un defines genocide as any act committed with the intention of destroying, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. we are fine with the crimes that are committed against christians, not just christians - i agree with you - but against christians in particular, in the context of genocide. it is essential that our parliament should ask the un to recognize this. why, you ask? it is not a word like any other: genocide is a word that has a legal meaning and a legal meaning, and at the same time it is a word that has a significant psychological and diplomatic meaning. that is why it is so important that we take the initiative. today, of course, it is not just the law that can be used to fight daesh. we need weapons and diplomacy, but we also need to use the law. this is a strong signal to christians and to all minorities, but especially to christians, because - let us not forget - they are very lonely. and we who claim the christian roots of europe have a special duty to them.
mr president, after the emotion of the attacks and the agreed fine words, the reality of our collective inability to fight terrorism sustainably and effectively is catching up with us. this mutual defence clause, based in particular on article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, is being used in a way that is both unprecedented and exceptional and is endangering the development of a genuine common security and defence policy, which many of us, from all political parties, are calling for. the use of this clause is all the more irrelevant since the terrorists who struck france came from our country, and we had better be concerned with the solutions to be found in europe to combat the disintegration of the social bond and of coexistence. this debate in parliament tonight is not up to par. we are not involved in the decisions, particularly in relation to this article, nor is the high representative, mrs mogherini. this clause is the very symbol of the regression of the european construction. it favours a bilateral logic within a community organisation. there is therefore urgency and, really, france, which has worked to build a european defence, and i, as a frenchman, do not understand at all this article which goes against this european defence.
mr president, on behalf of the french people, i would first of all like to thank all the countries which have supported this clause. i would like to thank them, of course, for what some of them have done in a very concrete way and, in general, for the message of solidarity that has been sent on this occasion. at the same time, madam high representative, it is true that the questions about the implementation of this clause also raise the question of what we are capable of doing to defend ourselves, because - i repeat - all countries, ladies and gentlemen, are liable to be struck by terrorism. some have been, and some will be, unfortunately. and nato cannot answer that. as a former secretary of defense, i've worked extensively inside and outside nato. the latter is not the appropriate structure for this. we need to defend our fellow citizens. this is the first duty of a state, and a state alone today cannot do it. whatever the actions, they're all international. it is not a renunciation of sovereignty, it is a practical organization. so, madam high representative, we really need to move the defence europe forward in a very concrete way. you have spoken to us about it and you have stated your conviction on the matter. we must now go further and define the timetables. first, the timetables for implementing a permanent headquarters: we need to anticipate, plan and be able to react immediately. today we are not until we have this permanent staff. secondly, it is true that there is great unity in diversity or great diversity in unity. this means, in particular, that permanent structured cooperation must be developed. we can do this. it is also something pragmatic and concrete. madam high representative, i await your answers.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, after the terrorist attacks of 13 november 2015, french president françois hollande invoked article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union in his speech to the french parliament in plenary on 16 november 2015. in the face of barbarism, in the face of abject crimes, in the face of the death wish on our territory, european solidarity was the one and only answer. today, this solidarity is symbolized by article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union. yes, france needs mutual assistance from europe, because, very often, it is alone in fighting those who attack us. many member states have responded very quickly to the call for action in this article. i welcome those decisions, their decisions. while you are due to deliver a new comprehensive foreign and security policy strategy for the european union by june 2016, madam high representative, it is important that this french invoking of the mutual defence clause can take on an operational dimension. this is the first time that a member state has used this clause. so let us turn the test into a masterstroke, and let us revive the european defence project, as a number of colleagues have just indicated. we can't hide our faces anymore. europe has security challenges shared by all its member states and this in its immediate neighbourhood: the sahel, the near east, the middle east. the conclusion is simple: our security is common, it is regional, it cannot be dispersed. in the face of this situation, only a genuine defence europe will be able to cope. europe cannot rely on a country like france alone, and france cannot reasonably take care of europe's security alone. let us not be afraid to tell those who want less and less europe that they are absolutely wrong and that, on the contrary, it is only through more europe that we will be able to control and combat these terrorists in this war that is taking place. this is the reality, this is our major political project which will restore to europe the prestige it has lost in these years of crisis. i thank you, madam high representative, and my colleagues, for your attention. i think this is a major debate and we must today, in our debate in the european parliament, in relation to you and the european council, give the answers that not only the french people expect, but also the 500 million europeans.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i do not like the way we are working on these issues in this house. we usually vote resolutions without taking account of the agenda of the hrc, even though its work has already begun. this time the european parliament votes a resolution effectively sooner, the better. but we are not taking the priorities of the hrc into account. this approach is not effective, we cannot work within the un bodies without regard for the work of the institution. and it is not you, madam high representative, that i am questioning. on the contrary, i thank you for your intervention. yes, member states would have much to gain by carefully considering and, even better, implementing the recommendations of the cdh, particularly on housing, debt, women's rights, and economic and social rights. yes, the european union loses credibility in these areas when it cannot continue to ask third countries to comply with rights that it itself respects less and less. so for all these reasons, the gue/ngl has chosen not to join this resolution and will abstain on it.
mr president, the threat of terrorism is global, global, internal and external. in the face of this threat, we need unity, will and, above all, action today - not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but today - and action in four directions. first, we must control, like all the great powers of the world, and effectively guard our borders. secondly, we must make it compulsory for european countries to exchange information. if not, we tell stories. thirdly, we must put a common european defence policy on the rails, because the threat is at the doorstep of europe. fourthly, we must have a foreign policy strategy to try to find solutions to conflicts, particularly in syria and libya. in conclusion, i say to you, if we can do all this as 28, let us do it, but if we cannot act as a whole, then let us decide to act as a few: let a few countries take the initiative to move forward. i hope that in this respect france and germany will regain the inspiration and vision which the european union is sorely lacking today.
mr president, in the face of terrorism, the member states can no longer act alone. the union must ensure the coordination and coherence of national policies, because european security is at stake. in the face of terrorism, the socialists and democrats are calling for more europe. more europe, this requires systematic sharing of information between the police, judicial and intelligence services of the member states. europol, with its new counter-terrorism centre, must become a fully-fledged european agency. the fight against terrorism also means tackling its financing. the strengthening and harmonisation of the powers of financial intelligence units and the improvement of the efficiency of the european system for freezing terrorist assets are all measures which must be taken as soon as possible. finally, in the face of the growing recruitment of young europeans by the islamic state, we must tackle the roots of terrorism through a systematic policy to prevent radicalisation. europe and its member states must invest more resources in developing and financing preventive measures, from the local to the european level, at school, in neighbourhoods, in businesses, but also on the internet. we have a burning obligation to demonstrate, through our public policies, that our young people - all our young people - have a place in our society. we must forcefully recall our common values of respect and solidarity with all the religions, including the muslim religion, which make up our european community.
in writing. several proposals have been announced by the commission. the establishment of a european border guard corps, a targeted reform of the schengen code for systematic checks at the external borders of the union, an extension of ecris to criminal records of non-europeans. i have been asking for these proposals for a long time now. but why so much time and lives wasted before they are done? in my report on the prevention of radicalisation, which was voted on 25 november, i included many other measures. i hope that the commission and the member states will commit themselves to the introduction of criminal liability for internet giants who do not cooperate in the face of the mass dissemination of terrorist propaganda content. strong measures to combat the financing of terrorism must also be put in place. the responsibility of certain gulf countries for financing terrorism must be brought to light. we also need a european tfts, a system for detecting terrorist financing channels, modelled on the agreement we have with the united states. what we have lacked so far is political will! let us not abandon european citizens to terrorists and let us act!
madam president, commissioner, i recently had an exchange with commissioner malmström on the protection of sensitive products from the outermost regions in the various trade agreements. i would like to remind the european parliament of the commissioner's commitment to the members of the european parliament to ensure that protection. as we open these negotiations with australia and new zealand, we are therefore relatively confident that the commission will take account of the implementation of the protection of special sugars in the outermost regions, which, as you know, may be weakened. we expect the commissioner to take care of this personally, in accordance with the assurances given to us.
madam president, my dear sylvie guillaume, i hear colleagues saying that we must not waste time and that we are lagging behind the united states, which has recently strengthened its position in the pacific. however, i still think that we should proceed, as always, with a little caution, because, of course, we share common values with australia and new zealand, especially on fundamental rights and democracy, but we also have real differences in business cultures. australia and new zealand have no concept of geographical indication. in the area of services, they are very much in favour of negative lists, whereas we are rather attached to positive lists. so why be careful? my previous colleague said that it was a win-win agreement, but when we look at the agricultural issue in concrete terms, europe has every reason to fear this opening up. we must be very vigilant, because agriculture in these two countries is intensive and industrial, the standards are less restrictive, and we should not end up with european agriculture under threat, particularly in the dairy sector. so, as we say in france, "you must hurry, but hurry slowly".
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in february. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. a process is under way to open discussions with new zealand and australia, which could lead to free trade agreements. although it is essential to help strengthen the union's ties with these two partner countries, the agricultural aspect of such agreements is very sensitive and the european union should not sell its agriculture on the altar of diplomacy. at a time when our livestock sectors, which produce meat and dairy products, are going through an unprecedented crisis, it would be dangerous to open up the european market to such direct competitors. let me give you some figures: new zealand is the world's largest exporter of dairy products and the second largest exporter of milk powder. it is the fifth largest exporter of beef in the world. australia is the world's second largest exporter of milk and the third largest exporter of beef. other sectors are also affected, such as large crops and sugar. i therefore call on the european commission to concentrate on the agreements currently being negotiated and not only to limit agricultural concessions as much as possible but to encourage the exclusion of our sensitive products.
in writing. a process of opening up negotiations is under way and the launch of negotiations for free trade agreements between the european union and australia and new zealand will open up new prospects and opportunities for our businesses. in order to prepare for these future negotiations as well as possible, it is essential that the european commission should carry out, as soon as possible, comprehensive and precise impact analyses in order to be able to anticipate the effects of such agreements on our market. the aim will be to negotiate ambitious and balanced free trade agreements in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit. in view of the opening of these negotiations, i would like to stress at this stage that agricultural products will be a very sensitive subject in these future discussions. the most sensitive products will need to be excluded from negotiations or at least, where appropriate, specific quotas or appropriate transitional periods will be introduced. it will also be essential to obtain the recognition and protection of our protected geographical indications. finally, i would point out that australia and new zealand each have their own specificities and that separate agreements will have to be negotiated in this respect.
the next item is the report by mrs lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014 (2014/2218(ini)) (a8-0361/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the vote) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to bring into force the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and kosovo. it proposes, inter alia, to strengthen political dialogue and promote trade integration. it also provides for the establishment of new forms of cooperation. this agreement is therefore fully in line with european integration and the process of kosovo's accession to the european union. i voted against this report because i am opposed to the policy of enlargement of the european union. the report also undermines the sovereignty of states which have not yet recognised the republic of kosovo, since the eu encourages them to do so. finally, it must be borne in mind that the ruling parties in pristina are responsible for the eradication of all non-albanians.
in writing. ‒ by associating kosovo with the eu, a decisive step towards the balkan country's accession to the european union has been taken. with my colleagues from the national front, we are firmly opposed to any enlargement of this european union. it would also be to support the very dubious governmental practices of this country, which is unfortunately dominated by the albanian mafia. that is why i have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ i have formally opposed this report by mrs lunacek on the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. this type of agreement, as we know, is the essential step before a country is integrated into the european union. in the midst of a crisis of legitimacy, and even as pillar states of the eu such as the united kingdom are increasingly seriously considering leaving it, brussels is stubborn and prefers to plunge headfirst into the abyss rather than consider for a single second to step back and acknowledge its past mistakes. furthermore, to consider the integration of an entity that is still not recognized as a state by all countries on the international scene, nor by some eu member states, is a camouflage reserved for the principle of state sovereignty, especially since the eu dares to look the other way to these sovereign nations that do not want to recognize this narco-territory as a state. it should be remembered that kosovo, besides being a hub for all kinds of trafficking, including drug trafficking, was born in the blood of the massacre of the serb minority. in these circumstances, it seems irresponsible to me to consider its membership of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the lunacek report proposes to adopt a stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. this type of agreement is a prerequisite for the integration of this province, which is still not recognized as a state under international law. while the european union is facing many ups and downs from its member states, notably hungary, poland and now denmark and italy, the european parliament and the european commission are determined to pursue their enlargement policy. in addition to its economic consequences, it should be stressed that in a regional context undermined by interreligious and interethnic tensions, the adoption of such an agreement will aggravate the destabilization of the balkans. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the parliament's decision, which is necessary in the context of the procedure for the approval (ratification) of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european union and kosovo. the aim of this agreement is to promote diplomatic relations and trade in a wide range of areas between the countries of the european union and kosovo. it will also help to implement many reforms in education, employment, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the eu-kosovo association agreement will strengthen our ties with this neighbouring country in many areas such as governance, judicial cooperation, consumer protection, intellectual property, energy cooperation and environmental protection. the agreement will also support the balkan country in its process of political and economic reforms. seven years after declaring its independence, kosovo is still facing serious economic difficulties, widespread corruption and a large emigration of its population to neighbouring countries. it should be noted, however, that this instrument of cooperation between the european union and kosovo is not linked to the prospect of kosovo's accession to the european union. the european commission wisely committed itself in 2014 to a pause in enlargement to consolidate what has been achieved between the 28.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to normalise relations between the european union and a 'state' which is not recognised by the united nations, nor by two permanent members of its security council, namely china and russia, nor by four eu member states, nor by india. moreover, to recognise this entity would be to divert attention from one of the real issues at stake, namely the considerable influence of the albanian mafia there. finally, after the corruption scandal exposed in the eulex mission, the european union would benefit from limiting its interference in matters concerning the balkans, especially since it has been noted for its inability to act against the ethnic cleansing of non-albanians. i am opposed to the union's interference in the internal affairs of states and naturally voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not recognise the legality or legitimacy of kosovo under international law.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this is about ratifying an agreement which everyone knows is a first step on the road to kosovo's eu membership. it organises cooperation with kosovo and liberalises trade and the issuing of visas to kosovo citizens. as usual, the european union is doing things the other way round. it is doing so purportedly to improve a situation it cannot ignore: disastrous economic situation, corruption, the role of the mafias, the involvement of the ruling parties in the ethnic cleansing of non-albanians. however, it offers kosovo what should only be the reward of an internal process of reforms, particularly in the areas of democracy and the rule of law, which are sacrosanct for the european union... that's not the only absurdity. the commission, by negotiating and signing alone, and parliament have their share of responsibility. but the council has given its go-ahead as well. the legal basis, i believe, is the unanimous, and therefore unopposed, vote of the five member states of the european union which still refuse to recognise kosovo's independence. it's a scandal enough. another is that it was a council of agriculture and fisheries that did it! we're really stepping on our heads!
in writing. ‒ associating kosovo with the eu is a decisive step towards the balkan country's accession to the european union. but we, together with my colleagues from the front national, are opposed to any further enlargement of this already sprawling europe. moreover, to join kosovo would be to endorse the country's troubled governance, which is dominated by the albanian mafia. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. parliament's approval is required for ratification of this stabilisation and association agreement, which insists on respect for democratic principles. after its entry into force, the agreement should encourage the implementation of reforms in kosovo and strengthen cooperation with that country. this will lead to the creation of an area of free trade and the application of european standards in areas such as competition, state aid and intellectual property. that recommendation was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims at the signing of a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo. the agreement will set a number of objectives, including trade cooperation, the launch of a regional political dialogue and the harmonisation of many internal market rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. this agreement is a very important first step on kosovo's path to european integration and its process of accession to the european union. one of the elements is the rapid liberalisation of the visa regime for kosovar citizens. parliament also urged the five member states which had not yet recognised the republic of kosovo to do so. the enlargement policy of the european union is a disaster. his balkan policy has resulted in crimes against the serbian population. facilitating kosovo's accession would be politically equivalent to giving a bonus to the albanian mafia, which is the most stable institution in the 'country'. moreover, interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states which do not intend to recognise the creation of kosovo is an attack by this parliament on the sovereignty of states. it should be a ground for refusal in itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because by associating kosovo with the eu, it constitutes a decisive step towards the country's eu membership. i am opposed to any new membership on principle. furthermore, facilitating kosovo's accession is tantamount to lying down in front of the albanian mafia which has taken over this small and fragile country.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to bring into force the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and kosovo. it advocates enhanced political dialogue, closer trade relations and increased cooperation, thus further supporting kosovo's european integration path and indeed its eu accession process. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. moreover, such a text seriously undermines the sovereignty of the eu member states, some of whom have not yet recognised the republic of kosovo, a state creation that is highly controversial from the point of view of international law. finally, this accession process would implicitly give a blank check to the many segregationist abuses committed by the ruling parties in pristina against non-albanians. in view of these important elements and my general opposition to the policy of enlargement of the european union, i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. the agreement establishes contractual relations for enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation with kosovo. it is important to mention that this agreement includes the rapid liberalisation of the visa regime for kosovar citizens and the obligation for those member states which have not yet done so to recognise the republic of kosovo as an independent state. this is in fact a first official step on kosovo's path to eu integration. we are firmly opposed to this opening of the eu to the east, especially to a country that some member states do not even recognise!
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo, the final step in the creation of a free trade area across the western balkans. these agreements are economic annexations which are subjecting all the neighbouring countries to structural adjustment and at the same time are amplifying the trend of social and fiscal dumping in the union. for these reasons, i am opposed to any further enlargement of the eu, the ultimate objective, stated or dreamed, of these agreements. finally, this is an agreement with a territory which is not internationally recognised as a state, including by five eu member states. for all these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ associating kosovo with the eu is a decisive step towards the balkan country's accession to the european union. but we, together with my colleagues from the front national, are opposed to any further enlargement of this already sprawling europe. moreover, to join kosovo would be to endorse the country's troubled governance, which is dominated by the albanian community. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the lunacek report on the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement was negotiated from october 2013 to may 2014 and signed on 27 october 2015. the agreement establishes contractual relations which provide for enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. the agreement is a very important first formal step in kosovo's eu accession process. one of the key points of this agreement is the rapid liberalization of the visa regime for kosovar citizens and the recognition of kosovo by all member states. the eu's balkan policy has resulted in crimes against the serbian population, allowing kosovo to join would give even more power to the albanian mafia, which is the only organised structure in that territory. furthermore, forcing member states to recognise kosovo as a sovereign state is an infringement of sovereign rights. we therefore strongly oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ the enlargement policy of the european union has already been a serious political blunder. his balkan policy has resulted in crimes against the serbian population. facilitating kosovo's accession would be politically equivalent to giving a bonus to the albanian mafia, which is the most reliable institution in the 'country'. moreover, interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states which do not want to recognize the affront that the creation of kosovo has been in the eyes of international law or who do not want to see this dangerous precedent turned against them (as in spain in particular) is an attack by the european parliament on the sovereignty of states. it should be a ground for refusal in itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on eu-kosovo relations. the council adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc).
in writing. ‒ the recommendation contains the decision of the european parliament, which is necessary in the framework of the approval (ratification) procedure of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european union and kosovo. after receiving the approval of the european parliament, the saa is expected to enter into force in the first half of next year. once in force, the saa will establish a contractual relationship involving mutual rights and obligations and covering a wide range of sectors. the saa shall emphasise respect for core democratic principles and fundamental elements which are at the heart of the union's single market. it will create an area for free trade and the application of european standards in other areas, such as competition, state aid and intellectual property. it will also contribute to the implementation of reforms that will enable kosovo to adopt european standards. other provisions concern political dialogue, cooperation in a wide range of areas, from education and employment to energy and the environment, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ since i was unable to be present at the vote on thursday 21 january, i would like to express my support for the report on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part, which will allow for better cooperation in the fields of justice, home affairs, the environment, employment and energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo, which is a major step forward in relations between kosovo and the eu. this contractual agreement, which entails mutual rights and obligations in a wide range of areas, should encourage kosovo to make the necessary reforms, should foster its trade relations and political dialogue with the eu and allow for closer cooperation in many areas such as energy, environment, justice and home affairs. the agreement also emphasises respect for the core democratic principles and the fundamental principles of the union's single market. finally, i believe that this agreement will help put kosovo on the path to stability, sustainable economic growth and the job creation that the country needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. this vote opens the way for deepening relations between the eu and kosovo. it is a question of building a genuine political dialogue and committing ourselves to greater economic integration. the agreement contains provisions to promote european standards in key areas such as public procurement, consumer protection and competition. the final objective is therefore the establishment of a free trade area. the signing of such an agreement will not only broaden the scope of eu-kosovo cooperation in trade and economic matters, but also in the fields of justice, energy and the environment. parliament's approval of the signing of this agreement sends a strong message to kosovo of eu support for the reforms that are essential to stabilise the country. the agreement must now enter into force in order to implement all these provisions.
in writing. ‒ the enlargement policy of the european union has already been a serious political blunder. his balkan policy has resulted in crimes against the serbian population. facilitating kosovo's accession would be politically equivalent to giving a bonus to the albanian mafia, which is the most reliable institution in the 'country'. moreover, interfering in the internal affairs of member states which do not want to recognise the insult that the creation of kosovo has been in the eyes of international law or do not want to see this dangerous precedent turned against them is an attack on the sovereignty of the states. i vote against.
in writing. - i will be an alternate member of this committee with the sitting members jalkh and mayer. the commission must not end up harming the european car industry for the benefit of the american or japanese car industries.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector as voted at the last plenary session in december. i reiterate my full confidence in jean-françois jalkh and georg mayer, members of the enf group, who will sit on this committee, which will be responsible for examining allegations of breach of union law and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurement in the automotive sector, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts.
in writing. ‒ jean françois jalkh and georg mayer, two meps from the enl group, were appointed to the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector. because i have full confidence in my two colleagues that they will participate effectively in the work of this committee which is responsible for examining infringements of union law, without prejudice to the powers of the national courts. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ following the revelations about the volkswagen carmaker's cheating, parliament decided to set up a temporary committee to investigate violations of eu rules, as well as alleged failures by national authorities and the european commission to enforce eu standards. the purpose of this vote is to approve the list of 45 members of this committee, of which i myself have been appointed an alternate member. the commission will be asked to submit an interim report within six months, and then a final report at the end of the mandate. it is crucial that we shed light on this unacceptable case of fraud and ensure that it does not happen again in the future. however, i will be committed alongside my colleagues from the epp group and the french epp delegation to ensuring that the mandate of this committee is respected. it is not a question of suing the diesel engine, nor of making an amalgam between the fault of one company and the whole european automobile industry which employs millions of people. i supported that list.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the list of members of the committee of inquiry into automotive emissions. the creation of this committee was approved in december 2015, so i felt it was essential to weigh up the activities that will be carried out and to make this committee useful. it is important to renew the confidence of our citizens in the european automobile industry. i will be particularly vigilant to ensure that the mandate is respected and that this committee carries out a serious inquiry. it will have to identify the responsibilities for volkswagen's scandalous cheating and also highlight the solutions to prevent such a case from happening again.
in writing. - i'll be a full member of this committee. it must not result in the european automobile industry being harmed to the benefit of the american or japanese automobile industries.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the establishment of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, decided by the european parliament following the volkswagen cheating scandal. the committee believes that this opportunity should be seized to improve air quality, in particular through the introduction of real driving tests. i also hope that the volkswagen fraud will be fully exposed and that the committee of inquiry will make concrete proposals to ensure that such a case does not happen again. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the right to decide on the future of the european union. the fraud of a few, however scandalous, must not jeopardise the whole fabric of our industry.
in writing. ‒ like other members of the epp group, i voted against the creation of a temporary committee to investigate violations of eu car emissions rules. the creation of this committee was nevertheless voted by a majority of parliament, and we decided to send several of our members to it in an attempt to influence its work. the commission will present a first interim report within six months.
in writing. ‒ the volkswagen scandal sheds light on the fraudulent practices of some car manufacturers to falsify emissions test results. it also demonstrates the industry's collusion with regulators and legislators. the parliamentary inquiry committee into the volkswagen scandal will have to investigate carbon emissions testing rigging in the car industry, and the failures of the commission and regulators to enforce emissions rules. in the weeks following the scandal my group and i called for the establishment of this committee of inquiry, but the main groups opposed it, first trying to substitute it with an inquiry by the commission which would have had the responsibility of shedding light on its own failings. i therefore supported the creation of an independent parliamentary committee of inquiry. however, i am concerned about the european commission's attempt to accommodate car manufacturers by giving them flexibility on the 110% emission thresholds: after having tolerated the cheating of car manufacturers, now the commission is changing the rules in their favour. it is therefore imperative that this parliamentary committee of inquiry tackle these relations between manufacturers and political institutions which are at the expense of consumers.
in writing. ‒ the europe of nations and freedoms group has appointed mr jalkh and mr mayer as full members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector. these meps will refuse to let european industry be put on the back foot. air quality is a very important issue, but we must ensure that the french and european automobile industries can combine competitiveness with the environmental doxa of brussels.
in writing. ‒ 283 meps called for the creation of a committee of inquiry into the volkswagen scandal. the commission will be responsible for investigating infringements of eu law concerning emission measurements in the automotive sector. it will consist of 45 members, three of whom are from my group, the gue/ngl. i vote for the appointment of these members so that it can begin its work as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the enl group has appointed meps jalkh and mayer as full members of this committee. the commission must not end up harming the european car industry for the benefit of the american or japanese car industries.
in writing. ‒ following the revelation of fraud involving certain engines of the volkswagen car manufacturer, a committee of inquiry was set up in the european parliament to study for a year the issues relating to emissions of polluting gases in the automotive sector. the composition of the committee, which was not put to a formal vote, was announced by the president of parliament: 45 meps were appointed, including 14 members of the epp, 12 of the s&d, 5 of the erc, 4 of the eldr, 3 of the greens, 3 of the epp/gvn, 2 of the edf and 2 of the enf.
in writing. ‒ having supported this committee of inquiry on emission measurement in the automotive sector (emis) from the outset, i welcome its implementation and look forward to being part of it. in accordance with our mandate, we will now be able to investigate allegations of breaches of union law and of their misapplication and make any recommendations we consider necessary to ensure that such a situation does not recur. it is necessary to establish the responsibilities of each individual after the revelations that have taken place in the automobile sector. as i have already stressed, this is necessary in order to restore and consolidate consumer confidence in this vital sector of european industry, and to move forward with the reduction of polluting emissions to which we have collectively committed ourselves.
in writing. ‒ this resolution announces the future accession to the eu of georgia, moldova and ukraine. with my colleagues from the national front we are categorically opposed to any further enlargement of this moribund union. i therefore voted against, especially since, as the report itself points out, these three countries are riddled with corruption!
in writing. ‒ i opposed this resolution on the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade area with georgia, moldova and ukraine. these agreements are in fact in view of the forthcoming accession of these three countries to the european union. in addition to the fact that, in general, the principle of further enlargement of the union does not seem to me to be relevant, given the many crises it is currently going through and the impossibility of conducting an efficient common policy at 28, the three countries covered by this resolution pose additional problems: ukraine is still experiencing a constitutional crisis and the text clearly shows the desire to bring it into the brussels round table to counter the influence of russia; this is not only risky from a diplomatic point of view, but also dangerous for the country's stability prospects. finally, these agreements are based on the will of a single market, which i strongly oppose, since it would be based on global governance, to the detriment of peoples and the freedom of sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ the association agreements and the creation of a comprehensive and deepened free trade area with georgia, moldova and ukraine constitute a genuine economic and geopolitical crime. these agreements are a prerequisite for the forthcoming accession of these countries to the european union. the free trade area is already creating real economic and social problems in europe. it should also be noted that in moldova, for example, the minimum monthly wage is 43 euros. moldova is a country where 30% of the population lives below the poverty line, but it is also an underground economy that accounts for 40% of gdp. therefore, in the context of the russian embargo, georgia and ukraine are real weapons of massive unfair competition for our farmers, who are having a lot of trouble and are facing difficulties in exporting their agricultural products. of course, i voted against this scandalous report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution looks at the progress made by georgia, moldova and ukraine since the signature of their association and free trade agreements with the eu. the european parliament, taking stock of the political and judicial improvements in the three countries since 2014, considers that russia must stop directly or indirectly involving itself in the conflicts in georgia, moldova and ukraine and interfering with their european aspirations. it welcomed the progress in trade but called for more efforts to be made in reforms relating to the independence of the media and the judiciary in particular. i think that this resolution is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ one year after the ratification of the association and free trade agreements between the union and georgia, moldova and ukraine, economic and trade links with these countries of the eastern neighbourhood have been strengthened. while progress has been made in terms of economic development and stability, reforms remain in the area of individual freedoms and human rights and in some state institutions. in ukraine, corruption remains endemic. the judicial system in georgia is not sufficiently independent, as evidenced by the lack of transparency in the appointment of prosecutors and investigators. in moldova, the financial sector needs to be completely overhauled. the european union will of course continue to provide assistance to these countries as they progress in the areas of democracy, the rule of law and the fight against corruption. at the same time, it is urgent to convince russia to stop meddling in the conflicts in georgia, moldova and ukraine and to stop interfering with their european aspirations. finally, it should be remembered that this rapprochement and closer cooperation with these countries does not presage systematic accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ these agreements are in line with the new enlargement of the european union, in this case to include the three countries concerned, georgia, moldova and ukraine. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. i am opposed to further enlargements of the european union, which already has 28 members, and i do not agree with the double talk of the european union about the sovereignty of states, which is invoked only when it concerns external countries, so i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution announces the future accession to the eu of georgia, moldova and ukraine. but we, together with my colleagues from the national front, are opposed to any further enlargement of this moribund union. the new accessions are all the more unwelcome as the resolution itself acknowledges that these three countries are riddled with corruption. finally, this resolution is yet another affront to russia, and indeed yet another provocation by the eu. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ georgia, moldova and ukrainei voted in favour of the resolution on the deep and comprehensive free trade area and association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine. one year after the ratification of the three comprehensive and in-depth association and free trade agreements with the eu, the resolution sets out the reforms that still need to be adopted in these countries that wish to move closer to the european union. it also noted the dutch referendum on the eu-ukraine agreement on 6 april. that resolution was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which takes note of and validates the fact that the union, georgia, ukraine and moldova have signed association and free trade agreements which deepen relations between the european union and those countries which have made the most efforts in the field of human rights, good governance, the rule of law and democracy within the eastern partnership. the report also calls on russia to stop its direct or indirect involvement in the conflicts in these three countries.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the free trade agreements with ukraine, moldova and georgia takes an all too positive view of these agreements. the agreement with ukraine has set fire to the country and destroyed a ukrainian economy that will be unable to cope with european competition. the economic and social situation in ukraine is catastrophic, as ukraine is unable to compensate for the loss of the russian market for its enterprises; the european union is also committed to the development of the ukrainian economy. in these circumstances i refuse to join in the complacency of this text on agreements which have led to a ruthless struggle for influence between the european union and russia, and which calls for continuing sanctions against russia. i therefore voted against this text and preferred my group's resolution to it, which denounces the eu's eagerness to sign these agreements, without considering the catastrophic consequences of the struggle for influence that they would trigger with a vengeful russia. ukraine is now economically on its knees and needs help first rather than being subjected to the competition of the european market or to the remedies advocated by the imf.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade area with georgia, moldova and ukraine. these association agreements represent a turning point in the european integration of these countries. it stressed that georgia, moldova and ukraine could apply for eu membership and welcomed the visa-free policy for georgian and ukrainian nationals. it calls for an 'information' campaign aimed at the public to show everyone the benefits of these agreements and the neighbourhood policy, and to respond to 'propaganda' and 'defamation'. it's like a dream. this resolution is contrary to our interests and even to the interests of those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it announces the future accession to the eu of georgia, moldova and ukraine. i am against any new membership on principle. these are all the more unwelcome as the resolution recognises that these three countries are riddled with corruption. but is this really a defect for the eu? finally, this resolution is unnecessarily insolent towards russia and will be perceived by this great country as a further provocation by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these motions for resolutions. the important point to remember is that these three countries, georgia, moldova, ukraine, can apply for eu membership. the rapporteur calls for an information campaign to be launched to inform the public about the benefits of these agreements and the neighbourhood policy and to respond to 'propaganda' and 'defamation'. we are firmly opposed to the eu's opening up to the east, especially to countries as fragile and divided as these three.
in writing. ‒ this resolution takes a position on the free trade agreements currently being finalised with georgia, moldova and ukraine, following the provisional application of the agreement with the latter since 1 january 2016. yes, the eu applies agreements before they are ratified by all states, including the netherlands, which will hold a referendum on the subject on 6 april, and before they are approved by this house. the preparatory 'structural' reforms demanded of ukraine have had their effect: inflation at 43.3%, a quarter of the population has fallen below the poverty line and the external debt has doubled in 2 years. in moldova, the imf and this parliament are calling for a new government to carry out these same reforms. it does not matter that these countries do not respect the basics of the rule of law and that the oligarchies feed endemic corruption. the eu is not so much motivated by a desire for economic annexation as by purely geopolitical and offensive war motives against russia and its eurasian union. i vote against this warmongering policy which has already shown that it is even accommodating neo-nazis in power.
in writing. ‒ this resolution announces the future accession to the eu of georgia, moldova and ukraine. but we, together with my colleagues from the national front, are opposed to any further enlargement of this moribund union. the new accessions are all the more unwelcome as the resolution itself acknowledges that these three countries are riddled with corruption. finally, this resolution is yet another affront to russia, and indeed yet another provocation by the eu. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the eu's association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine are a further step towards integration for these countries, which will be able to apply for membership. the report also condemns russia's alleged policy of destabilising these countries. at the same time, it was concerned about corruption in ukraine, the restrictions on freedom of expression and the non-implementation of the minsk ii agreements; in georgia, judicial bias, lack of judicial independence and pressure on the constitutional court; in the case of moldova, the lack of a stable government, corruption, the state of the financial system, and the behavior of some moldovan politicians. we therefore oppose this resolution which is contrary to the interests of this country as well as our own.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is contrary to our interests and the interests of the countries concerned. it is proposing membership applications to these three countries and welcomes their gradual integration into the eu. the application of these association agreements risks mechanically causing territorial partitions in fragile and divided states. the natural base of these states is the immediate russian neighbourhood, whether we like it or not.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which is contributing once again to the futile escalation of tensions with russia. the text calls in particular for the union to assist ukraine in its current and future disputes with russia in the wto.
in writing. ‒ since i was unable to attend the vote on thursday 21 january, i would like to express my support for the resolution on the association and free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine, which guarantee increased european aid to these countries, some of whose territories, namely south ossetia and abkhazia, transnistria, crimea and eastern ukraine, remain de facto autonomous and are fuelling political and economic destabilisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which takes an initial stock of the implementation of the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements between the european union and georgia, moldova and ukraine. reforms have been carried out in these countries, and one of the results is deeper political and economic integration. the commission has also been informed that the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement is under review. in moldova, it will be important to follow the newly elected government after more than a year of political instability. finally, reforms are still needed in ukraine, in particular to strengthen the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to these resolutions which go against our interests and the interests of these countries. they are proposing membership applications to these three countries and are welcoming their gradual integration into the european union. the application of these association agreements risks mechanically causing territorial partitions in fragile and divided states. the natural base of these states is the immediate russian neighbourhood, whether we like it or not. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution requested by france for a mutual defence clause. the proposal provides for the extension of the european union's powers in the fields of criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence. the tragic events of 13 november have prompted this request, but i do not think that the union should interfere any further in the internal affairs of the member states. the latter must be able to retain their exclusive jurisdiction in matters of criminal law and diplomatic and military strategy. this proposal represents yet another offensive by europe against the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the europeans are using the recent attacks as a pretext to further expand the european union's powers in the fields of criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence. this further reduction in the sovereignty of the member states is unacceptable, which is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the mutual assistance clause invoked by france after the terrorist attacks in paris gives us a unique opportunity to lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence union in order to be able to deal with security threats and challenges. it is important to allow the union to act autonomously in operations abroad, particularly when it comes to stabilising our neighbourhood.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution which provides for a "mutual defence clause". it is once again scandalous that the european union is using the consequences of its incompetence to try to extend its prerogatives to the detriment of those of the member states. here, insecurity and the terrorist threat, largely encouraged by the irresponsible actions of the eu, are being used as a pretext for a new offensive by brussels on the freedom of states and peoples. proposals such as the request for a european civil and military headquarters are an unacceptable attack on our sovereignty, whether in the field of defence or diplomacy. while cooperation between sovereign nations is more necessary than ever to combat islamist terrorism, there is no question of acquiescing to a european defence policy - which would be nothing more than a nato vassal, therefore at the behest of american interests - which would only make france more dependent and fragile at the very moment when the threats against it are the heaviest.
in writing. ‒ this resolution provides for the implementation of a mutual defence clause. the threat posed by islamist terrorism to the security of europeans must not be used as a pretext for the creation of a european civil and military headquarters, which would constitute an unacceptable violation of the sovereignty of the member states. if the strengthening of cooperation between sovereign states is more than necessary to combat islamist terrorism effectively, it must be based on an intergovernmental and not a federalist vision. i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks on 13 november 2015 on french soil, france called for the solidarity of the other european states by using the mutual defence clause provided for in article 42 (7) of the treaty. this clause states that in the event of an armed attack on the territory of a member state, the other states must give it aid and assistance by all means in their power. the member states, by accepting this request, have shown their solidarity with france in the fight against terrorism outside the union's borders. the resolution welcomes france's request and the member states' willingness to cooperate in defence matters. the text also stresses the progress made in the cooperation of the eu member states in the fight against terrorism. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows france's decision to invoke the eu treaty's mutual defence clause (article 42 (7)) to seek the assistance of member states in the face of the threat of the islamic state. this article, invoked for the first time since it entered into force in 2009, provides that 'if a member state is the object of armed aggression on its territory, the other member states have an obligation to assist it by all means'. following france's request, all the countries of the european union expressed their support, symbolizing europe's unity against terrorism. this resolution deals with the scope of this article, the implementation arrangements and the role of the union institutions. i supported this and voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. this resolution is of great importance as it calls on the council and the member states to develop the guidelines of a policy framework for the effective implementation of the mutual defence clause. this clause of solidarity in the event of aggression against a country was invoked for the first time by a country, in this case france, following the paris attacks. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ following the tragic attacks of 13 november, the president of the french republic chose to invoke the mutual defence clause, invoking article 42 (7) of the eu treaty, which states that 'if a member state is the object of armed aggression on its territory, the other member states have an obligation to assist it by all means'. the union will therefore have to live up to its duty of solidarity. the activation of the mutual defence clause should be the opportunity to finally lay the foundations for the europe of defence we have long been calling for. the member states also need to find ways of building more effective cooperation between their police services and improving the exchange of information on the movement of weapons, explosives and suspected terrorists.
in writing. ‒ on 13 november 2015, after a series of attacks orchestrated from syria by the armed terrorist group daesh, france invoked for the first time in the history of the union the mutual assistance clause provided for in article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union. in general, all member states have expressed their political will to respond to the french call and significant contributions have been or will be made in the near future. that is why i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the mutual defence clause. this resolution supports in particular france in its request for the application of article 42 (7). parliament also called for an activation guide to be made available to member states wishing to activate the mutual assistance clause.
in writing. ‒ on 17 november 2015, four days after the terrorist attacks in paris, france invoked the mutual defence clause before the foreign affairs council (article 42 (7) teu) for the first time in the union's history. by this action, france seeks to satisfy a long-standing demand: support for its defence efforts. all the european states responded positively. bilateral consultations have already made it possible to mobilise new resources. i support this text, which, beyond this basic objective, provides guidance and clarifies the limits with the help of the s&d group's input, particularly on respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. it affirms the paramount role of the european parliament and the european council as venues for political debate. the context of the global terrorist threat requires the european union to support a renewed and more appropriate interpretation of international humanitarian law. i would add that the defence efforts of france (or other member states, if appropriate) should also be excluded from the convergence criteria, as i have repeatedly asked, particularly in the committee on budgets.
in writing. ‒ this text is an instrument to exploit the attacks to make it easier to accept a new expansion of the european union's powers to the detriment of the states and their royal powers. this concerns the areas of criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence. it also called for the establishment of a civil and military headquarters for the european union and for a kind of joint management of defence and strategic matters with the north atlantic treaty organisation (nato). i believe that the union's inability to ensure the security of its nationals will not be solved by further depriving the states of their sovereignty. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the activation of the mutual defence clause requested by the french authorities following the attacks of 13 november 2015. this clause provides that if a member state is the object of armed aggression on its territory, the other member states shall give it aid and assistance by all the means in their power, in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations . france will thus be able to receive material assistance to support its actions in iraq and syria as well as in other theatres of operations, such as the sahel, the central african republic and lebanon. the fight against terrorism and against the islamic state, which has renewed its threats against france and the coalition states, is a permanent fight that requires the mobilisation of resources and capabilities that france should not have to bear alone. europe, by the values and principles it defends, and each of the member states that are part of it, are threatened by this new form of terrorism that is breaking through national borders and recruiting its agents within our own nations. france must not shoulder the heavy responsibility of defending the continent alone.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. it is a further attempt to further expand the union's powers in the fields of criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence. this further erosion of the sovereignty of the member states is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mutual defence clause (article 42 (7) of the treaty). this clause provides that in the event of an armed attack on the territory of a member state, the other states shall give it aid and assistance by all the means in their power. it was first activated by france following the tragic attacks in paris in november. by accepting this request, the european states have shown their solidarity with france in the fight against terrorism. the resolution welcomes the french approach and the solidarity of the member states. it was adopted by a large majority, and i am glad of that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aimed to examine the use of the mutual defence clause activated by france following the attacks of 13 november 2015 in paris. the use of this clause makes it possible to ask the member states for help and assistance in order to cooperate, since france cannot do everything alone. moreover, the activation of this measure will lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence union to deal with internal and external security threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the mutual defence clause. the report intends to use the terrorist attacks to justify a further expansion of the european union's powers in the fields of criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence. paragraph 17 calls for a european foreign policy and paragraph 18 for a european defence policy. the european states must be able to cooperate in these areas, but on a voluntary and intergovernmental basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it intends to use the attacks to justify a further expansion of the union's powers in the fields of criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text requested by france. once again, we are faced with a european union which wants to extend its powers and encroach on the sovereignty of states, and this is particularly so in such important matters as criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence. the initiative, which was prompted by the tragic attacks in paris on 13 november, is obviously commendable, but the implementation is unfortunately not. the union does not need to interfere any further in the internal affairs of the member states. the fight against terrorism, through diplomatic, military and criminal policies, is and must remain the sole responsibility of the states.
in writing. ‒ the french government invoked article 42 (7) of the eu treaty following the attacks in paris on 13 november 2015. consequently, the member states of the european union owe it aid and assistance by all means in their power . france's requests focus on supporting france's operations in iraq and syria through the pooling of resources, as well as supporting other intervention areas (mali, sahel, car and lebanon) to redeploy its troops. in practice, the other member states' involvement is still limited. the resolution proposes to address this by: enhancing cooperation with the north atlantic treaty organisation (nato) to increase the compatibility of security and defence policies established by these two entities. the resolution calls for the establishment at european level of a permanent civilian and military headquarters at strategic and operational levels, which would be responsible for planning strategic and operational emergency measures. i am voting against this text which uses the pretext of the fight against terrorism to link the defence of france and europe a little more to the united states.
in writing. ‒ the europeans are using the recent attacks as a pretext to further expand the european union's powers in the fields of criminal law, military cooperation and intelligence. this further reduction in the sovereignty of the member states is unacceptable, which is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the urgent adoption of a political framework for the implementation of article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union (mutual defence clause) in order to combat terrorist attacks which have caused hundreds of deaths and thousands of injuries in the union since 2004. the text calls for a more active role for the union's institutions in security and defence policy and for the implementation of all the relevant provisions of the treaties. it is about coming together to fight against the barbarism that particularly hit france hard in november 2015.
in writing. ‒ as i was unable to be present at the vote on thursday 21 january, i would like to express my support for the resolution on the mutual defence clause, which supports the approach taken by france in its request for the application of article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. the mutual defence clause of the eu treaty was invoked by france for the first time in the history of the union following the terrorist and obscurantist attack on our country last november. the means of a strong and sustainable european defence union must be strengthened to better face the challenges of internal and external security. we've been saying that for a long time. it is a pity that we have to wait for events of the fatal nature of paris before a decisive step can be taken in this direction. i would remind you that any action taken in the permanent and multidimensional fight against terrorism and violent extremism cannot be separated from respect for democratic provisions and intangible european and universal values, otherwise the fight will already be lost. in addition, the use of this clause should be the subject of a political debate at the level of the european parliament and the european council, while practical arrangements and guidelines may be formulated by the high representative to govern its functioning. this is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on european actors, and in particular the member states, to clarify the implementation of the mutual defence clause, activated by france last november. following the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015, france invoked the provisions of article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, which calls for european solidarity in defence matters. all member states are affected by the terrorist threat. the activation of this mutual defence clause must therefore be an opportunity to express the solidarity of the european states in concrete terms. we welcome the unanimous support of the other 27 member states. however, the modalities of the application of this clause remain undefined to date and more concrete action needs to be taken to support france in the various theatres of war in which it operates. i therefore voted in favour of this text which calls for the definition of guidelines for the implementation of the activation of this clause.
in writing. ‒ following the deadly attacks in paris last november, the french government asked the council of the european union on 17 november 2015 to activate article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union. the eu's foreign policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons, and the eu's foreign policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons. article 42 (7) of the treaty, known as the mutual defence clause, must therefore be activated. another article of the treaties was more appropriate to the real situation of france: article 222 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on solidarity between states which are the object of a terrorist attack or victims of a natural disaster. but it has the disadvantage of limiting mutual assistance to the territory of the member state (s) concerned, of providing for a formal decision-making procedure, whereas article 42 has the advantage of leaving member states free to intervene or not. and now, as if by a miracle, we can break the lock on the stability pact. it is not by waging war that we ensure the defence and protection of citizens. jean jaurès told us that more than a hundred years ago. i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution to establish the priorities of the european union for the human rights council sessions scheduled for 2016. this proposal, under the pretext of defending human rights, is merely an exposition of the reasons for the union's interference in the national affairs of sovereign states. moreover, this pro-immigration text only emphasises the obligations of the member states in the field of immigration. i am opposed to the eu's policy of mass immigration and cannot support this text.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of defending human rights, particularly those of minorities, the motion for a resolution aims to interfere in the policies of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this resolution setting out the european union's priorities for the human rights council sessions in 2016. apparently, these priorities are limited to imposing an immigration policy through a mechanism of pure interference in the diplomacy of sovereign nations. some of the proposals are a scandal of irresponsibility in geostrategic terms, such as the proposal to exclude from the un human rights body countries such as russia or china, although they are members of the un security council; it has only one purpose: to please the united states by nailing to the cross its main competitors on the international stage. the human rights vision set out in this text is also based on a communitarian analysis, whereby each community becomes a victim that must be saved by positive discrimination measures; to put europeans off the uncontrolled flow of migrants, the concept of "climate refugee" is being invented. a text which is perfectly characteristic of the imperialism under the guise of human rights led by brussels.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the european union's priorities for the human rights council sessions in 2016. it seeks to impose an immigration policy through a mechanism of sheer interference in the diplomacy of sovereign nations. but above all, it proposes to exclude from the un subcommission on human rights countries such as russia and china, which are members of the un security council. this delusional text must be fought, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution sets out the union's priorities for the 2016 sessions of the human rights council, which are devoted to the defence of political, economic and civil rights, the rights of children and women, the death penalty, migration and freedom of religion. the text recalls the importance of supporting these priorities through the union's external policies. country-specific priorities will also be defined in the context of the universal periodic review of the un human rights council. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. in this joint resolution, which i supported, the european parliament sets out the union's priorities in the context of the sessions of the united nations human rights council. this text is very important because it calls for respect for human rights in the field of trade, public services and development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ respect for and protection of the universality of human rights must be an unceasing battle for the european union. human rights continue to be violated around the world, as evidenced by the executions still carried out in many countries, discrimination against minorities and intimidation of human rights defenders. the union must continue to exert its full weight in the fight against the death penalty, in defence of freedom of conscience and religion, the rights of women and children and the protection of people in situations of humanitarian crisis. the very serious crisis facing refugees fleeing the war in syria reminds us of this moral imperative. we urgently need to implement a common asylum policy and an effective migration policy. in the same vein, it is essential that the members of the human rights council be elected from among countries that respect these rights. it is unacceptable that some of the council's member states are responsible for serious violations of civil rights and freedoms. corrective measures must be taken to remedy and prevent such a situation from recurring in the future.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the european union's priorities for the 2016 human rights council sessions is, in my view, far too asymmetric. that's why i abstained. two major issues are not properly stated: daesh, which is mentioned only at the end of the text and about violence against women, and christians, who are not mentioned in the paragraph on religious minorities, while they continue to be persecuted in the east. however, i did not want to vote against this resolution, which contains essential proposals, including the proposal for an international definition of 'climate refugees', because there is a real legal vacuum in this area.
in writing. ‒ this text invokes human rights to justify various types of interference by the european union in the affairs of sovereign states or even international structures such as the united nations. it also uses the issue of sexual minorities to justify the interference and also encourages family planning, under the cover of women's and children's rights. i am opposed to any kind of interference in the affairs of states and institutions and reject all methods of exploitation, so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. the united nations human rights council meets annually to ensure that un member states follow its recommendations to strengthen the promotion and protection of human rights. the resolution adopted by the european parliament on 21 january sets out the union's priorities for the next session of the human rights council. it is therefore of crucial importance. i voted for this resolution because it stresses the importance of this annual human rights assessment and the need for the independence and vigilance of the human rights council. i also supported it because it addresses all fundamental rights in a comprehensive way: civil and political rights, the fight against the death penalty, social and economic rights, children's rights, minority rights, women's rights and lgbti rights. it also recalls the rights of migrants and refugees and calls for them to be guaranteed in the implementation of migration policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. the european parliament has a duty to protect human rights, particularly those of minorities, and its aim is to interfere in the policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european union's priorities for the human rights council sessions in 2016. these priorities are articulated around the importance of disseminating human rights through external policies. the resolution stresses fundamental issues for the european union, such as the full enjoyment of civil, political and economic rights, the end of the use of the death penalty, freedom of religion, with particular attention to respect for women and children. that resolution was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. i abstained on this text, which forgets to mention that christians are persecuted by daesh. we are talking only about religious minorities. nor is there any mention of the persecution of the jews, even in developed countries such as ours in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the priorities of the european union for the 2016 sessions of the human rights council. i regret that there are a number of asymmetries in the priorities set out in this report. indeed, while the organisation islamic state is today the main threat to human rights worldwide, it is only mentioned in paragraph 6, only in relation to violence against women. furthermore, eastern christians are not listed among the persecuted religious minorities in the world. the extent of the abuse inflicted on women is greatly underestimated by paragraph 81, which unfortunately does not mention the murders, massacres and grave abuses suffered by women. finally, i voted against paragraph 89 on the middle east peace process, which i consider to be highly unbalanced to the detriment of israel.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the european union's priorities for the human rights council sessions in 2016. this is a fairly comprehensive catalogue of the grounds for union intervention under the pretext of human rights. this text is pro-immigration in the sense that it is intended to emphasise only the obligations of the host countries. it calls for a definition of the concept of 'climate refugee'. paragraph 31 requires the member states of the european union to respect the right to seek and to enjoy asylum. this text would have been an opportunity to denounce the fact that this is not the case in saudi arabia and qatar, for example.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. under the pretext of defending human rights, it is in reality only exposing and justifying the reasons for the union's interference in the national affairs of sovereign states. moreover, it merely recalls the obligations of the member states in the field of immigration. i am firmly opposed to the pro-immigration logic constantly being implemented by the european union, and i could only oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is taking a stand here ahead of the next meeting of the un human rights council. for once, the resolution strongly condemns saudi arabia and its appointment as head of the un commission. it also calls for an internationally recognised definition of the concept of 'climate refugee' and for the participation of the member states in the work on a binding instrument on respect for human rights by multinationals, initiated by ecuador. but by listing general good intentions, against the death penalty, for women's rights (but without mentioning the right to abortion), the european union is trying to teach the rest of the world a lesson. for example, it calls on all countries to adopt a human rights-based strategy on migration, while eu member states are building walls and robbing refugees. i cannot condone such hypocrisy, but in order not to damage the work of the un on the human rights issue, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of defending human rights, particularly those of minorities, the motion for a resolution aims to interfere in the policies of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on this resolution, which deals with the priority issues that the european union wants to be included in the un human rights council sessions in 2016. the text calls for the establishment of migration corridors from the middle east, which i strongly oppose. i believe that the serious economic difficulties in most european countries do not allow for encouraging immigration. i also opposed the migration quota policy proposed by the european commission in 2015.
in writing. ‒ as i was unable to be present at the vote on thursday 21 january, i would like to express my support for the resolution on the european union's priorities for the un human rights council, which reaffirms its positions on the rule of law, democracy, international justice and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the priorities of the european union for the sessions of the human rights council (hrc) in 2016. the hrc makes a strong contribution to international efforts to promote and respect human rights and it is therefore important to support its actions. among the european parliament's priorities are respect for civil and political rights, including the regular holding of free and legitimate elections with universal and equal suffrage; freedom of the media, civil society organisations and human rights defenders; the safety of humanitarian workers; the abolition of the death penalty; freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief; respect for human rights in resolving the migration and environmental crisis; and the coherence of the union's internal and external human rights policies. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the universal periodic review, which assesses the human rights situation in all the member states of the united nations. i hope that the union will do everything in its power to ensure that the recommendations are implemented in the countries concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution which seeks to approve the activities of the committee on petitions for 2014. indeed, it is noted that its activity is down compared to 2013, on the one hand, and that the topics of the petitions remain the same, on the other hand: it is exclusively about environmental law, fundamental rights, discrimination and immigration. moreover, giving ever more rights to migrants seems to be the ultimate battle of this committee and of all parliamentary committees, instead of defending the interests of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions during 2014. while he commends the committee for its work, it is clear that its activity has fallen by 6% compared with the previous year. furthermore, it selects only those petitions which it pleases. in short, only politically correct, immigration-friendly petitions that are sympathetic to the pharmaceutical industry lobby are dealt with. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the european citizens' initiative, commonly known as a 'petition', is an instrument that promotes representative and participatory democracy by giving citizens the opportunity to participate more directly in the development of european policies. however, there is cause for concern that only 29.1% of the nearly 2000 petitions filed in 2014 were declared admissible and followed up. there is a real tendency within the commission to impede the substantive investigations of many petitions by imposing restrictions on purely procedural grounds. this has been the case with the thorny and embarrassing issues of shale gas, forced child adoption and, more recently, the transatlantic treaty. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, should, rather than systematically closing these files, encourage in-depth investigations of admissible files, organise public debates and meetings on these topics and provide precise and up-to-date replies to petitioners. the commission's institutional credibility is at stake.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which, with great care, dares to praise the activities of the peti committee in the european parliament, even though its productivity is among the lowest and is steadily declining. for example, the peti committee received 2 714 petitions in 2014, which is a 6% decrease compared to 2013. moreover, while the right to petition is a priori recognised as a genuine democratic tool for citizens, the peti committee's decisions are mostly made through an ideological reading grid peppered with political correctness, and this is at the expense of the reality of what the european peoples are currently experiencing. that is why i could not approve this report.
in writing. ‒ this text takes a positive view of the activities of the committee on petitions in the european parliament, even though its productivity is very low. it received 2714 petitions in 2014, a decrease of 6% compared to 2013. while at first glance one may welcome the recognition of the right to petition as a genuine democratic tool for citizens, the pattern of reading that emerges is riddled with political correctness. when, for example, will a petition be launched to demand a permanent end to the policy of mass immigration? i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary committee on petitions is a symbol of the european parliament's desire to get closer to its citizens. petitions from european citizens are examined and debated in order to properly discern the issues involved in certain situations and to raise the voice of citizens directly within the union's legislative bodies. this annual report provides an overview of the working environment of the committee on petitions. it highlights the improvements that need to be made to make the system more efficient and more representative of the will of our citizens. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report takes stock of the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, the charter of fundamental rights has had binding legal force. the right to petition is therefore recognised as a fundamental right (article 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union) and allows citizens to raise concerns with the european parliament about problems related to the implementation of european policies. in 2014, 2714 petitions were filed (6% less than in 2013) and 1607 were deemed admissible. some 80% of the petitions were dealt with during the year and a few triggered infringement proceedings before the court of justice. the majority of petitions concern justice, fundamental rights, the environment and the internal market. the main objective of this report is to clarify the rules on the admissibility of complaints, in order to offer citizens better protection of their rights when the union is competent. i have supported this report because i believe that the right to petition is an important element of the rule of law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which summarises the work of the committee on petitions of the european parliament in 2014. i support the right of every european citizen to be able to petition the institutions. this tool thus contributes to the transparency of european legislative decisions and is a fundamental right of european democracy.
in writing. ‒ not only does the committee on petitions seem more concerned with the defence of the rights of migrants than of eu citizens themselves, but it seems to be supported by the european commission, which is notable for its unwillingness to listen to the voice of citizens. given that there is a fundamental difference between citizens and non-citizens in the european union, as at all levels, i do not think that the peti committee is acting in the general interest of the union. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the committee on petitions has a subjective approach to the receipt of petitions.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the committee on petitions an undeserved credit for its activities in 2014. however, the activity of this committee decreased by 6% compared with the previous year. furthermore, it selects only those petitions that are pleasing to it. in short, only petitions that favour migrants and do not cause too much trouble for the pharmaceutical industry lobbies are processed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report by my colleague lidia joanna geringer of oedenberg on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. in 2014, the european parliament received 2714 petitions, a large number of which were inadmissible as they did not fall within the union's competence. in view of this high figure, it is urgent to increase the resources of the secretariat in order to reduce the processing time and to simplify and clarify the process of submitting european petitions. the european parliament also wants to strengthen cooperation with national authorities. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the use of petitions by european citizens in 2014. this important instrument for direct democracy in europe remains underused and often misunderstood. the report therefore calls for better information of european citizens on their rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it gives a satisfactory indication of the activities of the committee on petitions for 2014. however, this commission has an activity down by 6% compared to 2013. in addition, it systematically deals with the petitions it receives in a politically correct way, especially in the area of immigration, where it wants to give more and more rights to migrants.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution was to approve and welcome the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. i voted against this text, which congratulates a committee on its unsatisfactory results: a 6% drop in activity compared to 2013 and a doctrinal treatment of the substantive issues. thus, fundamental rights, discrimination and immigration are all at the heart of the petitions studied, and always bear the stamp of political correctness and the prism of immigrationist thought that characterizes the overall work of the committees in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. it "validates" the work of the peti committee for the year 2014, a committee whose activity was modest: only 2714 petitions in 2014, a decrease of 6% compared to 2013. moreover, the handling of these petitions remains very politically correct, even on sensitive issues that could benefit from more specific responses.
in writing. ‒ the european system of petitions serves as a democratic window to a european union which constantly tramples on the democratic rights of peoples and the sovereignty of their states. in 2014, the committee on petitions registered a total of 2 714 petitions, of which only 790 were deemed admissible. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. but under the guise of giving citizens more power through petitions, the real aim is to strengthen the control of the european commission, a democratically illegitimate body, over the member states and to speed up the implementation of the 'internal market law'. given the economic, social and political context, genuine democratic improvements are not to be found in the marginal improvement of a right of petition which has not so far proved its effectiveness against austerity. i am voting against, not to encourage this absurd gas plant which does not lead to any concrete consideration of the demands of the people, other than those accepted by the union under its treaties.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the committee on petitions an undeserved credit for its activities in 2014. however, the activity of this committee decreased by 6% compared with the previous year. furthermore, it selects only those petitions that are pleasing to it. in short, only petitions that favour migrants and do not cause too much trouble for the pharmaceutical industry lobbies are processed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution gives a satisfactory conclusion to the work of the committee on petitions for 2014. however, its activity was modest, as it received only 2714 petition requests, a decrease of 6% compared to 2013. moreover, the committee is handling these petitions in a politically correct manner, especially in relation to immigration. we therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution gives a favourable opinion on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2014. the activity of this committee is, however, modest. it received 2714 petitions in 2014, a decrease of 6% compared to 2013. moreover, their treatment remains politically correct. the main topics of the petitions concern environmental law, fundamental rights, discrimination and immigration. the fact is that the peti committee treats its subjects as do other parliamentary committees, especially in the area of immigration (giving more and more rights to migrants).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the activities of the committee on petitions of the european parliament in 2014. the purpose of this paper is to present an analysis of the petitions received and to examine possible improvements to the procedure. i particularly approved the provisions calling for better awareness of the union's fields of activity among european citizens, in order to reduce the number of inadmissible petitions. indeed, 40% of the 2714 petitions submitted to parliament in 2014 were declared inadmissible. this situation, which leads to unnecessary congestion of the peti committee secretariat and, consequently, additional expenditure, needs to be remedied.
in writing. ‒ as i was unable to be present at the votes on thursday 21 january, i would like to express my support for the report on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2014, which reaffirms the right and the need for citizens of the union to have a direct say in the work of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the activities of the committee on petitions in 2014. during 2014, the european parliament received 2714 petitions, representing a decrease of 6% compared to 2891 petitions submitted in 2013. 39.4% of the petitions received were inadmissible. the majority of petitions received concern fundamental rights, justice, the environment, animal welfare and disability. the european parliament, through this report, calls for greater cooperation with national authorities, for the european commission to be fully involved in the petition process and for the human resources available to the secretariat to be increased. parliament also regretted that the charter of fundamental rights had not been adopted in all member states and stressed the important work undertaken by the committee on petitions in implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the annual report on the activities of the parliamentary committee on petitions of european citizens in 2014. these cover a wide range of areas, including the environment, fundamental rights, employment and the cipr. together with the european ombudsman and the european citizens' initiative, they are tools for citizens' political participation. they are very imperfect but have the merit of being there and reflect the demands of a number of citizens. the text highlights a number of difficulties: delays in the processing of petitions, insufficient explanations for decisions of inadmissibility, etc. there are proposals for reform, such as the more regular organisation of public hearings, and i welcome them. even if all this is just a little too much to fill the democratic deficit in the european union, i voted for this resolution, also because it contains a paragraph calling for the rejection of any arbitration instrument in the itpc.
author. mr president, this is the first resolution on ethiopia in ten years, which explains its length. however, since 2009, the ethiopian government seems to be sinking into a repressive and freedom-threatening climate. ngos speak of systematic abuses: arbitrary arrests, unlawful detentions, torture, criminalization of lgbti people and even extrajudicial executions. the repression of the oromo community, which is revolting because it is threatened with expulsion from its territory, the most fertile in this country, under the cover of large industrial and urban projects, is symptomatic of this drift. in addition, ethiopia is about to experience the worst drought in fifty years, due to climate change. a humanitarian catastrophe is looming. ten to fifteen million people are estimated to need food aid this year, including five million children. the country also hosts more than 800 000 refugees. it is representative of the migratory evolution of the countries of the african continent, all of which become more or less countries of origin, host and transit. the european union wants to make it, through the khartoum process, one of the key partners in the new migration policies. i have doubts, to say the least, fears that development aid is being diverted to the benefit of europe's obsession with returning migrants, with ethiopia being used to receive the european union's rejects from other countries in the horn of africa. any partnership must include progress on human rights, including for migrants. there can be no development without progress towards more democracy. yes, there is an emergency for ethiopia. yes, the european union must play a role in promoting full respect for the cultural and religious diversity of the ethiopian people, which is one of its greatest assets.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, in paragraph 3 of your joint motion for a resolution you state your desire to find a diplomatic solution with pyongyang. but in the next paragraph you are demanding new sanctions against that country, when north korea is already the most isolated country on the planet. i have no sympathy whatsoever for this terrible communist dictatorship, but i do not believe that we should respond to its provocations with new sanctions, which can only increase the paranoia of its leaders. yes, they are paranoid, but it must be admitted, alas, that the lies, inconsistencies and twists of western chancelleries too often provide credible arguments for north korean propaganda. let us simply recall the myth of saddam hussein's weapons of mass destruction, which served as a pretext for the second gulf war, the calamitous intervention which is the origin of the infernal chaos which now reigns in the middle east. while mrs mogherini has some diplomatic skills, the european union's constant interference in conflicts often worsens them rather than solves them. it is up to north korea's neighbours and traditional interlocutors to find a solution to the real problems facing the country today.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i thank you for granting this request for an amendment to the agenda, pursuant to rule 153. our group would naturally like a statement from the commission and the council on this epidemic, which is suddenly appearing in the world. he would also like this statement to be followed by a debate in this house, not so much in view of the characteristics of this epidemic, which we do not yet really know if it is a simple viral fever - one more carried by the tiger virus - as in view of the rather catastrophic management - it must be said - of the ebola virus, where both the who and our institution had fallen behind, which, in retrospect, has been very damaging. we therefore feel - and i think, ladies and gentlemen, that you will agree with us - that it is important that we discuss this in this house and ask to be able to have the necessary debate on this matter.
mr president, the debate on the cfsp is very important, as is the debate on the itcp. you can't go overboard with your roles. to impose a limitation on amendments would jeopardize democracy in this parliament. there is legislative freedom and i ask you, mr president, to respect the texts as much as the members.
mr. speaker, i know it doesn't change the final result, but i wanted to point out that i wanted to vote for it and i don't have my card.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why does the greek government not ask the central bank to issue money to invest in energy savings and new energy in the greek economy, because then we would not be creating fake money, we would be investing in the real economy and we would have a real change in the economy. why is quantitative easing limited to banks?
mr president, mr president of the ecb, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to denounce the heavy influence of the main political groups on the rapporteur, mr marias, who unfortunately distorted the quality of his report. in the report we are considering today, one word is never mentioned: the word oil. it is not necessary to recall, however, that the dizzying fall in oil prices over the last year and a half has been at the heart of the economic news. the consequences are a destabilization of the oil industry and of the european economic and financial order. the impact of crude prices is central to the price level and partly explains the high risk of deflation being fought by the european central bank. the 50% fall in prices in a few weeks is not the effect of supply and demand on the physical oil markets but the result of speculation on the derivatives markets. every barrel of oil traded on the physical markets is traded 200 times on the same day on the derivatives markets. in these conditions, it can be predicted that the sharp decline of recent months will soon be repeated, but in the opposite direction, as soon as speculators bet on the rise. these wide-ranging movements directly complicate the ecb's monetary policy and the achievement of its 2% inflation target. this volatility on systemic banks has unexpected risks on their solvency as well. the control of speculation in commodity derivatives markets was one of the main priorities of the french presidency of the g20, which wanted to moralize capitalism, but five years later, we are still at a standstill. i would therefore like to know, mr draghi, what the ecb is planning to do against financial speculation in energy prices in order to ensure sustainable price stability in the euro area.
mr president, mr president of the european central bank, you know that this parliament has a record of the way you have acted, in the past as the troika and now as the institutions of brussels. several questions remain about the role of the central bank in the implementation of the memoranda, particularly in greece. clarification is needed in this respect. i'm asking you to bring it to us. the rapporteur said that no matter how good your monetary policy is, it cannot do everything and that there is a need for investment stimulus here and there. you yourself said that economic conditions were not so serene and that economic and monetary union must be completed urgently, not only by one of the pillars of banking union, the project of capital markets union, but also by the so-called completion of economic and monetary union, in particular the establishment of budgetary capacity. you are one of the authors of the report by the five presidents in which this question was raised. given the economic situation in the euro area, given the difficulties in which a number of our member states are struggling, do you not think that the timetable should be speeded up and that the prospect of waiting until 2017 for the full use of economic policy tools, alongside monetary policy, is too late? the last point, mr president, which was not mentioned in mr marias' annual report and which is sometimes the subject of this annual meeting, is the question of the use of the 500 euro note. as you know, this is a recurring question, particularly when we are dealing with the conditions for financing terrorism. can you tell us a little more about this because it seems to us that your institution will also have to make its contribution to this theme?
mr president, in 2012, with françois drouin, the secretary general of the elysée, mr bassanini, with the support of mr monti, we launched a working group with the development banks to ensure that there is quantitative easing focused on the real economy. the idea was to invest in structurally deficient countries in projects which are guaranteed to be profitable, such as energy savings, new energy sources or absolutely safe infrastructure projects. this project was not realised for a number of reasons. why don't you just start quantitative easing again, focused on the real economy?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, with the trade and services agreement, a new free trade agreement is on the table, a new debate in the european parliament, and this debate raises the same questions again and reveals the same problems that we have encountered with other agreements. first, a question about the objective, because a free trade agreement is not an end in itself. it only makes sense if it is favourable to european businesses and citizens, and that requires simple principles: the conditions of fair competition, reciprocal access to markets and above all the maintenance of the possibility of legislating in the general interest. and then we have the same problem with the method, with the same lack of transparency, both for the representatives of the european people and for civil society. we must therefore send a clear message in this report: we want more transparency, we want to prevent tax evasion and social dumping, we want to protect the personal data of european citizens and we want to exclude a number of services from this agreement: public services, of course, but also cultural services. i thank all my colleagues and the rapporteur for suggesting that a number of messages be sent in this direction. i imagine that the rapporteur is acting against the wishes of some of her political group and i thank her for this effort.
mr president, commissioner, for 30 years now, we have been trying to impose the general agreement on trade in services on us. in 2013, the previous report did say that it was a failure. the wto cannot do that, because it is against the interests of the people. today, with a very small private club of 23 out of 190 countries, there is a renewed attempt to impose a general agreement on trade in services. nobody in the world wants it! when you want to open negotiations, well, for example, the united states says to china, "we don't want china to be part of the negotiations". and now uruguay just came out. but why? perhaps it is simply because it is something that is against the public interest: that is what people have been saying for the last 30 years. when they protested against the general agreement on trade in services, that's what they were saying. but the agreement which is being imposed on the countries is even worse than the general agreement on trade in services. this is what is called, in wto jargon, a "++ agreement". which means once again we're gonna open up all the services. because it's not true that we're going to protect public services, because inside those services, there are already systems that allow them to be opened up to foreign actors. so today very clearly... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the rapporteur, mrs reding, said earlier that the question we were being asked was: 'what stab do we want?' i'll give you a little hint. i think the real question is also, do we want acs? we are a number of members of parliament, but also citizens, who doubt the validity of such a negotiation. why would you do that? because we have learned from experience and we have seen the disastrous results of past liberalizations, even though europe needs rules and protection more than ever. the questions raised in this resolution, and we are a number of those who are asking, are whether the cfsp will be a disguised ctbt or a bolkestein directive at world level. will the csa mean even more deregulation and even more financial deregulation? if the commission answers yes to these questions, we will of course be against the sca. from that point of view, mrs arena is right. our resolution should not be a vote of support for the commission, but rather an invitation, a very strong encouragement to do things differently and to always be concerned about the protection of the workers and consumers of the european union.
mr president, all trade, all exchange, is based on regulation, otherwise it is the law of the jungle. here, we emphasize the importance of public services, we emphasize the importance of data, protection and reciprocity. however, the fundamental problem is the way these negotiations are organized, in secret, with a mandate that is not clear, that should be imperative, and especially with this base that had been that of the post-war international trade organization, because it had used its experience to rethink trade, the base that should be the united nations. today, the future of the peoples is decided behind the scenes, in secret, outside the peoples, with a parliament that gives some advice that we do not listen to. that is not the way to restore democracy and the confidence of the people.
mr president, this is not just a sensitive issue, it is a very important issue for our economy, for our industry, for our research, for our patents. this decision should not be taken behind closed doors, but in open, public debate, because the stakes are considerable. there can be no automaticity. the question is therefore whether china fulfils the criteria of a market economy. obviously not. we all know that here. as long as china does not carry out the necessary reforms, as long as competition is not finally fair, as long as we are not basically on a level playing field, it will be illegitimate for me to grant it this status.
mr president, commissioner, are you familiar with the havana charter? i don't know, man. however, this charter was signed in 1948, after the war, at the initiative of the united nations, to think of trade for peace and to set trade rules with a view to peace and the pursuit of this peace. the principles are quite clear: balance of payments equilibrium (surpluses of some people cause deficits of others; no one can be locked in their deficit), fair labour standards, authorisation of state aid where sovereignty and independence are at stake, authorisation, and therefore also of subsidies in certain circumstances, and prohibition of dumping. it is very clear that today china is not a market economy. it protects itself, pursues a policy of self-interest for its own development and may not necessarily be concerned with the interests of others. we must build a fair trade with it, and this fair trade must be based on the principles of the havana charter. china is the european union's largest imbalance in the balance of goods. we must find the basis for a new sustainable trade balance with china and this must be done within the framework of the united nations and not the wto.
mr president, commissioner, our problem is our anti-dumping calculation methods and not the market economy status. is it really necessary for such an important matter to depend on the interpretation of a sentence in an annex to a protocol of another institution? is this serious? no, you can't! politics must mediate this legal ambiguity. china is a partner, and what is more, a friend: you must be able to tell them everything. but when we tell it that it does not meet our five criteria for market economy status, it does not recognise it. when we defend ourselves against the dumping that it is practicing en masse, it responds with investigations. when we tell him that we do not have the same interpretation of article 15, we have to expect a trade war. unfortunately, we have had the precedent of photovoltaic panels. by banning the import of french wines and no longer granting any import licences for german vehicles, china has divided the world's leading trading power. solidarity is and must remain our strength. let us prepare a pact of solidarity to avoid division; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. any simplistic reasoning is to be avoided. the question is not whether to say no, but how to say no without hindering our investments. except i'd rather not have to talk about such a big business strategy in front of our chinese friends watching us. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as our colleague david martin said, there is still a serious problem of anticipation. we have known for 15 years that this problem is going to arise, and now we have to think of solutions in a hurry and act in a hurry. that's a problem in itself. secondly, everyone pretty much agrees on this, china is not a market economy. in fact, the chinese, when you talk to them, they don't even pretend to believe in it... the real question at the heart of this debate is what we want for europe. what europe are we defending? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. i have heard some colleagues say: "but it is good to give the status to the chinese, it will encourage them to reform". that is not our opinion, we do not think that. we believe that europe is not meant to be the idiot of the global village. to do this, it must be able to defend itself, be able to modernise its trade defence instruments, be able to carry out an impact assessment. in the meantime, what is certain, and i believe, commissioner, that you have understood the message, is that we are not talking about granting china market economy status today.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. china signed an accession protocol with a series of commitments to become a market economy after joining the wto in 2001. this agreement allows other wto members to apply the non-market economy status to this country. it thus allows the introduction of protective measures against chinese imports. while china has only met one of the 5 criteria set by the eu for recognition of its market economy status (mes), the european commission recently indicated that it would consider this possibility by december 2016. it is well known that large parts of the production of goods and services in china are heavily subsidised by the state. however, community law provides a strict framework for cases where such aid is authorized. under these conditions, granting the sem to china would have a devastating impact on the european economy. several studies show that this 'dumping' permit would overwhelm the european market with chinese products at low prices, leading to a significant fall in eu industrial production with consequences for gdp and employment. in the end, it is most urgent to wait for china to make profound reforms before considering granting it sem.
in writing. the question of whether china should be granted market economy status will mark the year 2016. first of all, i would like to stress that china is not a market economy because it does not meet the five criteria defined by the european union. this is also evidenced by the many anti-dumping measures currently in force against china. i take this opportunity to stress the need and urgency of modernising our trade defence instruments without weakening them. while we are constantly trying to revive growth in europe, the granting of market economy status to china would be catastrophic for european jobs and industry. that is why we must continue to pursue our objectives of combating unfair competition and strengthening our businesses, especially our smes. we will be watching closely the impact assessment which will be published by the commission in a few weeks' time and its proposal this summer. we reiterate our insistence that the european union should not be isolated and should coordinate with the major international trading partners and wto members. finally, we must already be thinking about ways of mitigating the effects of possible retaliatory measures.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the economic partnership agreement between the european union and west africa: provisions for sustainable development, by bernd lange and christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000011/2016-b8-0108/2016).
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr mark demesmaeker, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy (2015/2137 ((ini)) (a8-0003/2016).
i will not accept a blank cheque, because we are very late, this is a very long debate and we still have the one-minute speeches.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 february, at 12.30 p.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for speeches of one minute, in accordance with rule 163.
this concludes the one-minute speeches.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of course we must prevent and discourage undeclared work. and why not at european level through a platform bringing together all the member states? however, i am afraid you are looking at the problem the wrong way round. before tackling the effects, you should ask yourself about the causes of undeclared work. the report also calls for the establishment of a european system of social security for the unemployed. why would you do that? because work no longer allows the employer to prosper and the workers to live. in order to supposedly adapt and keep up with globalization because of your tax policies and austerity policies that destroy jobs by the millions, what are the choices of an employer and a worker? the employer can either file for bankruptcy and disappear, or relocate and destroy jobs in his own country, or use posted workers, to the detriment of national workers, or, and this is the subject of our report, not declare these workers. on the other hand, the worker, with or without a job, can either emigrate to better heavens, but it is not easy, or take advantage of unemployment insurance, but it is not enough, or go around all the aid associations to feed, clothe and shelter himself but with his family, it is complicated, or work in the dark, simply to fill his refrigerator. it is therefore clear that your platform will not change this, let alone the massive influx of so-called 'political' refugees you wish to welcome and china you are bringing into the wto concert. the only way to reduce undeclared work is through a strong policy of economic recovery, which necessarily involves community preference, intelligent protectionism and investment aid.
madam president, in our western european society, the commodification of human activities has long been the rule, as opposed to the food activities that persist in some parts of the world. the more commodification is caricatured through the globalization of trade, the more the criterion of profitability and productivity takes precedence over the necessary rules of respect for individuals. this globalisation is taking precedence over the recognition of professional activities as the cornerstone of a country's economic prosperity and the sustainability of quality social protection. this structured social protection is one of the most remarkable features of the social evolution which has been shared by all european countries over the last two centuries. it was inherited from the christian humanism of mutual aid and help to the weak, and was structured with the industrial revolution of the 19th century. but globalization is sweeping away these hard-won social advances with its own hidden profits. the cost of a worker became the adjustment variable, linking fraud to inadequate contributions and wages. the fight against undeclared work is an urgent obligation, all the more so since the new industrial revolution of the digital age is an extraordinary opportunity to create all the conditions for widespread fraud. the very survival of our economies is at stake. europe seems to be a very poor place to regulate and control the phenomenon. only the states can hope to be effective. i therefore say yes to international cooperation to improve working conditions for workers, but no to european hyperregulation which is totally ineffective in view of the porousness of external borders and the free movement of people and goods. the evidence is the 10,000 migrant children who were reported missing in a matter of weeks.
madam president, madam european commissioner, dear marianne thyssen, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in a 2013 eurobarometer study for the european commission, undeclared work is estimated to represent between 15 and 20% of the gdp of some member states of our union. we are all aware that undeclared work is a real threat to our economic and social models. the term covers serious situations such as the exploitation of workers, precariousness, unfair competition and, of course, heavy losses for the states and their social security systems, among others. the increase in undeclared work is undeniably creating a sense of injustice for the vast majority of our fellow citizens who are following the rules. moreover, as we have unfortunately seen, this phenomenon can lead to the bankruptcy of certain states or regions. the creation of this european platform is not additional legislation but a link of cooperation between the states, which should lead our far-right colleagues, who are great detractors of any new european legislation, to vote for it (i do not understand their inconsistencies, by the way). this platform will show that the european union is aware of this system of unfair competition and that it intends to provide a concerted response between the states. in addition, we must not forget that the fight against undeclared work must also be undertaken upstream. indeed, much of the problem also lies - one must have the courage to say so - in national legislation which is often unsuited to the world of work and to the evolution of society. as the eurobarometer survey shows, 50% of respondents consider undeclared work to be beneficial for both parties. the road map for the member states is therefore clear: to combat undeclared work, but also to give our companies and our employees less burdensome administrative and tax rules in order to promote economic growth and thus job creation.
madam president, the increase in undeclared work is a reflection of the dysfunction of our societies and the global crisis we are experiencing. austerity, which reduces the number of jobs, puts pressure on stable employment and encourages undeclared work. it is unfair and harmful to the workers concerned, who are placed in insecurity without social guarantees. it is harmful to the whole community, because it brings down all working conditions and denies social rights, it constitutes a shortfall in the funding of social protection and in the revenues of the states, and directives such as the one on posted workers allow for fraud. the commission's approval of the new model based on self-employment also supports it. the new models of the "uber" type, we might add, create a new type of wage-earner, free of any social obligation for the employers. the platform is a good decision, but we should work more deeply, by revising the directive on posted workers, regulating the status of crossborder workers, setting up a european body of labour inspectors and creating, in the face of new economic models, the conditions for job security and social protection for all.
madam president, commissioner, the underground economy in europe today is worth €2.1 trillion. this fraud in reporting poses three problems: a breach of workers' rights, a depletion of public funds and unfair competition between european companies. among them, small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for 99% of the total, are the first victims. the platform we are adopting today must be seen as a first step in the fight against undeclared work, because it finally brings all member states together. it will open up a thorough dialogue between their different administrations and will also limit the use of bogus self-employment and letterbox companies. in border areas, this cooperation will clarify responsibilities and reduce the current legal uncertainty. however, this platform must not remain an empty shell. it must become operational without delay and allow for a real strengthening of controls and sanctions. it will probably also have to focus on fraud in connection with the posting of workers. but be careful, a simple platform won't solve everything. the member states must also commit themselves to a genuine policy of combating impunity, to adjusting taxation and to promoting entrepreneurship in order to encourage workers to return to the rule of law.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i made a commitment to you some time ago, in a previous debate, to provide the answers you expect quickly to the challenges posed by tax fraud and tax evasion. the package we adopted last week is the fulfillment of that promise. this debate is an opportunity for me to present this answer and it also confirms, in line with the measures adopted last year - you remember our two packages of march and june - that it is possible to act quickly and clearly on corporate taxation. i would like to begin by welcoming the decisive role played by the european parliament in these matters. your assembly has given valuable support to the commission in redefining the contours of a fairer, more transparent and more efficient tax system in terms of content, but also in terms of political impetus. this subject could not and would not progress without your commitment. our institutions, the commission and parliament - as you know - are often in sync. what's the point? the absolute need to adopt concrete measures to combat abusive tax optimisation and to strengthen tax transparency, which is our common objective. the measures advocated in various reports presented to this house last year by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the special committee on taxation and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe) have highlighted these convergences and, not surprisingly, many of the measures contained in the package reflect - you can and will see - the recommendations made by this house. so i'm very happy to be here this morning, in tune with you, but now let's get to the actual package. our desire for reform is based on a very simple and deeply shocking fact: some companies today do not pay their fair share of taxes, or do not pay any taxes at all. this is a situation which has become, for many of our fellow citizens, absolutely unbearable. this strategy, which i would call a bypass strategy, takes advantage of an international and european tax system which is clearly no longer suited to today's economy, that is to say an economy which is global, mobile and complex. to respond to this state of affairs, to combat this inadequacy, the package i am presenting to you is based on four pillars. first, the taxation of companies is an actual taxation, not a theoretical one. it's very simple: companies have to pay their taxes where they make their profits. secondly, a qualitative leap for tax transparency. thirdly, a healthy and fair tax competition and, finally, a fine link between the internal dimension of the european union, which we must address, and the external dimension, which we must also take into account. i'm going back to these pillars, in that order. firstly, the effective taxation. the initiatives presented last week will ensure that companies are effectively taxed. this means that in reality there must be a close link between taxation and the place where profits are generated. we shall do this, with your support, through two instruments: a directive and a recommendation. we have first drawn up a proposal for a directive on tax evasion. i do not want to go into the details of the provisions here, but the proposed initiatives will, in particular, firstly prevent companies from transferring their profits to subsidiaries located in low-tax states, then prevent companies from circumventing certain legislation limiting the deductibility of interest by using so-called 'hybrid' instruments or entities and, finally, to counter the practices of certain companies which transfer their assets from one state to another in order to avoid paying tax on those assets. these measures - as you can see - are in line with the recommendations made last year by the econ and taxe committees. we are indeed following your own works. this directive is supplemented by a recommendation to prevent any abuse of tax conventions. you are familiar with these practices: some companies set up artificial structures to gain access to the most favourable tax treatment under various tax agreements with other member states or with third countries. our recommendation provides guidance to member states on how to make their tax treaties more resilient to tax treaty shopping. the second pillar is decisive and fundamental in my view. that is the fight i want to fight during this mandate, namely tax transparency. the directive on the publication of information by country is at the heart of our action. this text is a manifestation of our commitment to a real revolution in tax transparency within the union. in concrete terms, the measures i am presenting to you this morning will enable the exchange of key information on certain companies between the tax administrations of the member states. what's this about? i want to be specific. the proposals for directives implement the oecd recommendations on the publication of financial information on a country-by-country basis. you know the challenge: it is to enable administrations to better control irregular transfers of profits between companies. we therefore propose today that you transpose the standards as recommended by the oecd. it's a first step. i know that many of you want to go further in terms of transparency and make country-by-country reports of companies public. i will put it in the simplest way possible - and you already know this - and that is my wish too. i have said this on several occasions in this house and outside it, and i have long tried in my political practice not to have double talk. i am therefore in favour of publishing information on a country-by-country basis. the commission will be submitting a proposal in the spring on this point. what's the problem? our services are studying the best approach to take. we have conducted a public consultation, we are conducting an impact study and the problem must be the following: is there a contradiction between this increased publicity which you want - as i, as many others, as other members of the commission, you know that some have spoken on this matter - and the competitiveness of our companies and their ability to invest? if so, and if there is this contradiction, it will take a while. if not, we must move forward with determination. that's what this impact study should say. you know my wishes and my intentions, but at the same time i think that we must act on this matter with a great deal of pragmatism and not be guided by ideology. transparency and competitiveness are two objectives which we must pursue together. third pillar: we want to restore healthy and fair tax competition between companies within the internal market. i am talking about competition between economic actors, such as companies, and between member states. let us first look at what is happening at the corporate level. there is a profound imbalance in the tax burden between smes and multinational companies. when i talk about some companies - i'll be more specific now - multinationals have the means to practice aggressive tax planning. that doesn't mean that all of them do, i don't want to be in an intent lawsuit. i am simply saying that they have the means, with the legal services they have and with their own internal organisation, to do so. it is therefore smes, which represent the hard core of the european productive fabric, that are disadvantaged. in other words, there are significant distortions of competition to the detriment of companies that pay their fair share of taxes. we estimate that the tax burden of smes is up to 30% higher - a considerable figure! - than that of multinational companies. this situation is unacceptable and cannot continue. the commission's proposed measures therefore directly target the increasingly aggressive tax regimes of multinational companies that have the means to evade tax. the package will also restore fair tax competition between member states by protecting their tax bases. this is the principle of base erosion and profit shifting (ebitb), which you know. some member states have already taken action on tax evasion and have adopted measures to counter its effects, but others have not followed up or to be more than lenient not yet followed up and this has resulted in a particularly unfair situation where anti-abuse measures taken by some member states are in fact undermined by more permissive legislation that is taken elsewhere. the package i am presenting to you will therefore allow the member states to return to a level playing field within the union, and this is a necessity. finally, the last pillar: we are developing a genuine external strategy for the european union. our initiatives are designed to provide a global response to a global problem. let us be frank: we need a common approach at european level to the outside world, complementing the internal measures that will be taken by the member states. our new strategy therefore addresses the risk of external fiscal erosion and, to this end, encourages greater cooperation between the union and its international partners. i am thinking first of all of the non-cooperative third countries, which represent a real threat to the balance of the internal market. the commission intends to work with its international partners to promote good international tax governance. that's what's happening at the oecd. that's what's happening in the g20. i say this firmly: we will not hesitate to take a hard line against those states which persist in the wrong direction. as you can see today, the package presented to you is a strong one, with a series of solid and coherent measures. our new european strategy proposes the establishment of a european list - and i emphasize the two words - of non-cooperative third countries. so far, as you know, i have taken the initiative to have a list that is, i would say, a kind of best of, a medley of national lists with their inequalities. some have no non-cooperative states, others have 85. some have certain criteria and others have fewer or different criteria. it was not satisfactory, but at the same time it made things move. this has led to debate and to the evolution of a number of states which have felt that they were being targeted and which have already been removed from the list. i do not want to name names, since there was virtuous behavior. however, the european list i am proposing would be based, as the european parliament has suggested, on objective and fair criteria decided by the member states, as well as on a permanent dialogue with these countries: effective taxation of companies, tax transparency, sound and fair tax competition, and external strategy. so these are the four pillars of the anti-tax evasion package that we are presenting to you. i would now like to say something perhaps a little more technical, but behind the technique there is often policy, more specifically in relation to implementation. the package allows for a comprehensive and coordinated implementation of the oecd recommendations. what are the parameters we have to deal with? in simple terms, we must avoid the effects of variable geometry, since not all eu member states are members of the oecd, and we must take account of the specific features of our internal market. a common approach was therefore essential to avoid a partial or disparate application of the ebitb measures, which would de facto doom our package to failure. in addition, some specific initiatives go beyond the ebitb recommendations. it is also because we have been nourished by the debates in this house and the discussions in the council, and it is also because we are a union, with a stronger integration than a system like the oecd. in our previous discussions, some in this house had questioned the competitiveness and economic attractiveness of the union. i would like to reassure them and tell them that the initiatives proposed this morning are not hostile to this. on the contrary, i believe strongly that transparency and competitiveness go hand in hand. the provisions i am proposing will avoid a patchwork of national legislation which would seriously damage the internal market and thus the economic activity of european companies. all of this is shaping taxation in europe to be favourable to companies that play by the rules and not favourable to those that play by the rules. so clearly these are the first things we should give priority to. a few words to conclude, first to look ahead to what awaits the commission, to what awaits you in 2016. this anti-tax evasion package, which is - as you can see - very ambitious and very comprehensive - is probably the most ambitious and comprehensive package ever proposed by a commission and examined by your assembly. but it is only the beginning of a series of initiatives that we will be presenting, that i will be presenting to you in the coming months. we will have another big date this year: you know that 2016 will be the year of the rebirth of the accis, the consolidated common platform (ccctb in english). the ccctb has the merit of providing a comprehensive answer to the problem of profit transfer within the union, while offering businesses an optimal framework for their economic exchanges. so i want to keep, or rather pick up the pace on this project. the commission services are currently working on a proposal which must be a proposal in stages, because we have seen that a one-stop-shop approach has not convinced the council and what i want, as always, in tax matters is to marry the desirable with the possible. the only way to do this, ladies and gentlemen, - and i must say this - is by agreement between us, but also by consensus between the member states, since you are familiar with the decision-making process in this area, which requires unanimity. some may regret it. that is the way our institutions are set up and of course we must respect that sovereignty. but one step at a time! the commission is reaffirming its commitment to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion more than ever with the package we are discussing today. i have already said this before, and i hope i will say it again with greater force: we must fight these forms of economic inefficiency which give rise to social injustice. the most honest actors, the taxpayers, are now unfairly bearing the costs of these distortions and there is a considerable amount of money lost to growth, to public services, to hospitals, to safety, to schools, to public transport and to the economy in general. we need to inject more fairness and transparency back into international taxation and into our own european taxation. the measures presented in 2015 were already a very significant step forward in this direction. i would like to mention in particular the long-awaited directive on the automatic exchange of information on tax returns, to which your parliament has made such a great contribution. the package we have just adopted is a further major step along this demanding but essential path. i sincerely hope that parliament and the commission will continue together in the coming months to make tax transparency and fairer international taxation what we want it to be: a reality.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome both the content and the timing of the package you have just presented to us, which very largely echoes the recommendations that our parliament adopted at the end of last year. i would also like to welcome the quality of cooperation between our institutions and regret the absence of the dutch presidency, which could have told us what consequences it intends to draw from these proposals during the six months of its mandate. parliament will play its part during this period by extending the debate to all national parliaments, those of the 28 member states of the european union and, beyond, those of all countries that the oecd has associated with its work. we shall do so in the near future, in may. we must understand that, under the pressure of public opinion after the luxleaks scandal, and the pressure we are relaying in our institutions, a change of mind is being imposed on everyone. the google case is a comical example of this: for years our countries have been secretly competing to be the most generous taxpayer to these types of multinationals, and now we are going to see a competition, at least apparent, to be the one who charges these types of multinationals the most. this makes the second part of your proposals, commissioner, urgent, namely the harmonization of the corporate tax base within the european union. as regards the publication of company results, we shall see that, in the face of this change in attitude, some multinational companies will publish their results, country by country, and will see a commercial argument in this. the others will have to follow. the commission and our institutions should not arrive after the battle, so let us propose this publication right away.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the proposals you are presenting to us are a further step towards ending tax avoidance by large companies in europe. i would like to welcome, for example, the proposal for an exit tax, which would make it possible to tax at least once profits that are offshored to countries outside the european union. however, when you look closely, the texts on the table are incomplete. as it stands, they will not put an end to the most cynical tax practices. i hope that parliament will do its utmost to strengthen this text. i do not want to minimize anything here, but i would say that if things do not move fast enough, the primary responsibility is increasingly clearly incumbent on the member states, which behind the speeches continue to engage in destructive tax competition. the very advantageous tax rebate (3% over ten years) granted by british minister osborne to google is part of this dynamic which is trampling on the spirit of european cooperation. mr moscovici, you must now empower the greatest number of people, including the european parliament and civil society, to put pressure on governments to complete the anti-ebitb action plan in the coming months and to ensure that the newly developed rules are respected in each of the 28 member states in the coming years. that is why you must finally give clear support to the public nature of the publication of financial information, country by country. the battle against fiscal injustice will not be won in the halls of the council or the ministry of finance, not when job blackmail has become the norm, not when ministers have become the chief lobbyists for the interests of the biggest groups.
mr president, commissioner, the european commission presented two texts last week to continue the fight against tax optimisation. the initiative is commendable, although incredibly belated. the french nfb fully supports the accis plan and the ban on the six tax optimisation schemes. as regards the publication of financial information by country, we are in favour of an exchange between administrations, but not of a public display of economic data by companies. i regret, however, that some of your proposals are weak compared with those of the oecd, such as the deduction of interest at 30% of ebitda, whereas 10% would be reasonable. i would also like to point out that a number of countries, such as italy, the united kingdom and belgium, have concluded recovery procedures with multinational companies to settle past arrears, something which the fn has been calling for in france for a year in the tax committee. these 'robin hood' states have poured hundreds of millions of euros into their public coffers. even if these revenues are below the actual fiscal shortfall, it is already progress. mr moscovici, your countrymen would have appreciated the same tax justice when you were finance minister. today, i hope your friends in the french government will achieve similar results to ease the tax burden on taxpayers.
mr president, commissioner moscovici said that we must act quickly and clearly. i think we all share this objective and in that respect the measures he has presented this morning are undoubtedly a positive signal. i hear colleagues saying: 'in the end, these measures are not up to the healthy and legitimate revolt of europeans following the luxleaks revelations'. finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us also measure the progress made. some of the proposals on the table today were unthinkable just a few years ago. we must also be able to identify the resistance, mr lamberts, because the problem is not so much the commission, or at least not commissioner moscovici, but the council, which obviously does not want this to progress. and let's finally acknowledge that this is just a step. yes, just one step, because progress is needed on the harmonization of corporate taxation. i think we can do this. progress is also needed in the publication of country-by-country financial information, particularly in terms of transparency. i would like to reply to my colleagues on the right that transparency is not the opposite of competitiveness, quite the contrary, especially today. we must go further, there are still some milestones to be reached, particularly because we must extend certain measures to more multinationals, commissioner. today, only 10 to 15% of multinationals publish financial information by country. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we must move faster, we must be clearer, but i believe we can build a fruitful partnership with the commission. the balance of power with the council is also important. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr lamberts, i am not sure i follow your metaphor, which may lead us to some lapses, but what is certain, and you will recognize it as i do, is that when we hear commissioner moscovici, we have the same objective. even mr moscovici assumes - and that is good, because the commission is a little more political than before - that he, personally, is in favour of publishing financial information country by country. you're in a hurry to get to the point? i, too, would like to see action taken quickly, but let us know, in this matter, who our allies are and whom we have to convince.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union code on the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons (schengen borders code). the purpose of this text is to codify the body of rules which are based on the schengen status quo. the aim of such codification is to ensure the continuity of the schengen rules. i was deeply opposed to the maintenance of the schengen area, which is a playground for mass immigration and terrorism, and i could not support such a text.
in writing. ‒ the report in question aims to codify the body of rules gathered around the schengen status quo. while historically, from the roman emperor justinian to the french emperor napoleon, every attempt at codification was aimed at ensuring the succession of rules and enshrining great legal principles, here we are rather putting our foot in the door of a building which we wish to deconstruct because of its obvious weaknesses. the schengen area has indeed made the current migration crisis much worse. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the new codification is aimed at saving the schengen area, so i logically voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in launching schengen cooperation, member states agreed to abolish internal border controls in the schengen area, which is based on the confidence that member states secure their external borders and implement the required measures in this regard. this report proposes to codify the rules of the schengen area. europe makes us vulnerable and it is clear that the schengen area is a giant strainer today. i am against the schengen area, which this codification is trying to save. we must regain control of our national borders to stem the tide of migration and implement a strict immigration policy along the lines of australia's. finally, we must pursue a genuine policy of co-development with the countries of origin of 'migrants' and make aid to these countries conditional on agreements in this field. i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation proposes to establish a union code on the crossing of borders by persons (schengen borders code). i have been opposed to schengen for years and therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the codification of the body of rules on the regime for the crossing of borders by persons. this codification is part of the european institutions' desire to ensure the continuity of the rules governing the functioning of the schengen area. as opponents of the european soviet union, it is our duty to vote against this text, which is to engrave in marble the great principles of the schengen area, unable to protect the member states from the current flood of migration and the potential arrival of jihadists. the increase in attacks and attempted attacks, particularly in france, shows how little the european union has taken account of the risks facing the people of europe today. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to consolidate the legal regime of the union code on the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons (schengen borders code) without changing its substance. this is the sixth time that the legislator has proposed an amendment to the text since the regulation was adopted in 2006. i voted in favour of this report, considering that it does not raise any substantive problem and that our legislative arsenal in this area should be strengthened in the light of the current crises.
in writing. i voted in favour of the codification of the regulation establishing a community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons, the schengen borders code. while preserving the substance, it is indeed important to work towards greater clarity of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to codify all the rules relating to the schengen area, a construction which is, however, questionable in many respects. the very principle of codification is intended to ensure the continuity of a legal framework by compiling rules of positive law. i voted against this text because i wanted to be consistent and did not want to strengthen this area, the dramatic consequences of which we see every day.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i do not want such rules to be perpetuated.
in writing. ‒ the report in question aims to codify the body of rules gathered around the schengen status quo. while historically, from the roman emperor justinian to the french emperor napoleon, every attempt at codification was aimed at ensuring the succession of rules and enshrining the great legal principles, here we are dealing with a building which we wish to deconstruct because of its obvious weaknesses. the schengen area has indeed made the current migration crisis much worse. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, heidi hautala, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union code relating to the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons. the purpose of this text is to incorporate in a single legal text the various amendments which have been made to the schengen borders code in the interests of clarity and simplification. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report which aims to adopt a straightforward codification of the existing texts concerning the schengen borders code, without any substantive amendments. in order to consolidate and simplify the various legal standards relating to schengen, it was necessary to endorse this commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). the proposal in question is limited to a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance. the schengen system has proved to be a failure. it is not a question of amending or codifying it, but of abolishing it and giving member states the possibility of regaining control of their borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it approves the codification of the schengen rules. i am against the schengen area, which this codification is trying to save. we must regain control of our national borders to stop the wave of migration.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the codification of the body of rules gathered around the schengen status quo. the codification is significant because historically, from roman emperor justinian to emperor napoleon, it was part of a desire to ensure the succession of rules and to enshrine major legal and social principles. i therefore reject the principle of establishing the schengen area, which is also part of the free movement of persons without any frontiers or controls. since i believe that the artificial, unstable and inept construction of the schengen area must be deconstructed, i have logically voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the aim of this report is to establish a code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons. in other words, we are codifying the rules around schengen to make it stronger. we are opposed to the very existence of this schengen area, so there is no question of us supporting a text that strengthens it.
in writing. ‒ this report is purely technical and aims to aggregate the changes made to the regulation codifying schengen in the eu. it opens the door to abuses, however, such as the latest danish law confiscating the property of migrants. this regulation thus explains in large part the disasters of managing the current migration crisis. i vote against codifying it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to codify the body of rules gathered around the schengen status quo. codification is an operation which aims to affirm major legal principles, to be asserted in the long run. it is a question here of supporting a building which i wish to deconstruct because of its essential weaknesses. the schengen area has contributed significantly to the current migration crisis. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the codification of the body of rules gathered around the schengen status quo. historically, from emperor justinian to emperor napoleon, every attempt to codify has been made in an effort to ensure the succession of rules, to enshrine great principles. so we are not going to bring our stone to a building that we want to demolish. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the regime for the crossing of borders by persons. the purpose of this consolidation is purely technical and is to consolidate the schengen borders code regulation, which has been subject to six legislative amendments since its adoption in 2006.
in writing. ‒ the original regulation of the border code has been amended by six different legislative instruments since its adoption in 2006. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the union code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons, in order to consolidate the text, which does not, however, alter its substance.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the codification of the body of rules gathered around the schengen status quo. historically, from emperor justinian to emperor napoleon, every attempt to codify has been made in an effort to ensure the succession of rules, to enshrine great principles. so it is not a question of bringing my stone to a building which i would rather see dismantled and consigned to the dustbin of history. i therefore naturally vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it makes it easier to read this legal document. i would also like to emphasize that coding is a well-known and recognised technique in our country, and that this type of initiative makes it easier for citizens to find themselves in the texts in the application, which are sometimes difficult to read.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the commission's proposal to codify the regulation establishing a community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons. it is therefore in the interests of transparency and legal clarity that this new regulation would replace the various acts which are incorporated into the schengen borders code. the content of the code shall be preserved; it is a simple coding operation. the conditions of application related to the absence of controls at the eu's internal borders, the types of controls, the special circumstances, the modalities for exceptional reintroduction of controls and the responses to serious threats are thus being re-codified. this codification operation provides the legal clarification necessary for the implementation of the schengen borders code.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, determined to maintain the schengen agreements and borders. without the free movement of citizens, the union would be nothing but a single market. i won't compromise. nationalism and identity rhetoric lead to deadlock. to solve the migration crisis, as well as to combat terrorist risks, european countries must come together and strengthen their common border policy, not dismantle it. the return to national borders would only increase isolation and condemn everyone to impotence. those who tried to take greece out of the euro zone are now proposing to take it out of the schengen area. this is unacceptable. greece is not responsible for its geographical location which makes it a preferred arrival point for refugees from the middle east. is there a need for a border management policy? i know. but it must be done at the external borders of the union and with european border guards! the european union is now at a crucial stage: if schengen falls, so will it. together we will be stronger, without cooperation we will remain powerless.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the codification of the body of rules gathered around the schengen status quo. historically, from emperor justinian to emperor napoleon, every attempt to codify has been made in an effort to ensure the succession of rules, to enshrine great principles. so we are not going to bring our stone to a building that we want to demolish. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this recommendation on amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution relating to heavy metals. if heavy metals are extremely harmful to both man and nature, and if these amendments are in line with eu legislation, then the member states are already signatories to this protocol. i therefore believe that it is not necessary for the eu to sign these amendments. it would not add value. it would also be wise to have the aarhus protocol ratified by the major industrial powers of third countries such as the united states or china.
in writing. ‒ supporting the amendment on heavy metal pollution would be a mistake. i note that, with the exception of malta, the eu member states are already signatories to the aarhus protocol on this subject. the committee's recommendation does not add value or have any legal significance. it would be more appropriate for the eu to approach the major industrial powers and invite them to join the protocol under the auspices of the un. i therefore voted against this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these amendments because they represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution. winds know no borders, so the problems of air pollution must be tackled at european and international level.
in writing. ‒ the aarhus protocol , named after the second city in denmark where the first convention was signed in june 1998, five years before the protocol of the same name , concerns long-distance transboundary pollution. the amendments in question are designed to set emission limit values for dust containing heavy metals or persistent organic pollutants (such as pcbs). the aarhus protocol is under the auspices of the un, and the signatory parties are mainly the european states and the european union. but not all eu states are at the same stage of commitment and malta, for example, has neither signed nor ratified the aarhus protocol. heavy metals and pops - persistent organic pollutants - are real poisons for man and nature. for example, nearly half of the migratory birds have already disappeared because of the effects of pops on their sense of direction. however, these amendments are already largely covered by our legislation and the eu would do better to ask third countries such as the united states or china to sign and/or ratify this protocol first, before imposing new constraints on us.
in writing. ‒ this amendment concerns the aarhus protocol on transboundary pollution by heavy metals (e.g. pcbs). the signatories to this protocol are mostly european states and the european union. the amendments are already largely covered by eu legislation. the commission's recommendation has no added value or legal effect, especially since the member states are already parties to the protocol. it is of no use to support this recommendation. on the other hand, the european union can only be invited to approach the major industrial powers to invite them to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol, such as the united states (not ratified) or china (not ratified and non-signatory). i therefore decided to vote against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the amendments to the aarhus protocol on long-range transboundary pollution provide for the setting of emission limit values for heavy metal dust. the member states are already signatories and it is therefore not essential for the eu to ratify these amendments. the commission should instead approach the major industrial powers of third countries to invite them to sign and/or ratify the protocol, such as the united states or china. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aarhus protocol, which is under the auspices of the united nations, aims to limit long-range transboundary air pollution. almost all the signatory parties are member states of the european union, although not all are at the same level of commitment. these amendments are designed to set emission limits for dust containing heavy metals. the health hazards of heavy metals are no longer to be demonstrated. from a legal point of view, we believe that the objectives of these amendments are in full accordance with european union law. however, we do not consider it essential for the european parliament to ratify these amendments, since the member states are already signatories. if the aim of the european institutions, which are always well-intentioned, is to reduce the emission of these dusts, then the real challenge is to convince the federal authorities of the united states and those of emerging countries such as china and india to ratify the aarhus protocol. that is why i voted against these amendments.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report proposes the european parliament's support for the amendments to the protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution as regards heavy metals. the convention, which entered into force in 1983, has created a framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by air pollution in crossborder areas. in 2012, amendments were adopted to set stricter limits on metal dust emissions and to introduce a flexible transitional regime for new parties to the convention, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe. as these amendments are already covered by european legislation under the revised directive on national emission ceilings (nec) recently adopted by parliament and currently being negotiated with the council, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the amendment to the protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals. by controlling emissions of air pollutants such as anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, we help to improve the protection of human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the objectives of these amendments, relating to the aarhus protocol on transboundary heavy metal pollution, are commendable. however, they do not add anything to the existing european legislation. it would be more useful to promote the extension of the protocol to the major industrial powers which have not signed or ratified it. as i am opposed to unnecessary normative inflation, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe it is not the role of the european union to ratify amendments to an international treaty.
in writing. ‒ all member states are parties to the international convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and its various protocols. the two reports before us today concern amendments to these protocols, amendments strengthening the provisions on heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants. they ask the council to approve these amendments on behalf of the european union. i do not see how the participation of the european union as such in this convention and its follow-up represents any added value. in addition, the union's legislation is very much in line with the proposed new provisions: whether or not the eu is a party to the convention, it must take due account in its legislation of the international commitments of its members. the initial mistake was to allow brussels europe to accede to this convention 15 years ago. it was neither necessary nor useful. it would be much more useful in these matters to push the two biggest polluters on the planet, the united states and china, to sign and ratify these agreements as well.
in writing. ‒ supporting the amendment on heavy metal pollution does not seem sensible to me. i note that with the exception of malta, the eu member states are already signatories to the aarhus protocol on this subject. the committee's recommendation does not add value or have any legal significance. it seems to me more useful for the eu to approach the major industrial powers and invite them to join this protocol under the auspices of the un. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague giovanni la via on the recommendation on long-range transboundary air pollution from heavy metals. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has created a framework to reduce the harm pollution causes to health and the environment. the aim of the heavy metals protocol is to reduce emissions of these metals into the atmosphere. i therefore approved the council's decision to ratify this protocol and its amendments. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation on the convention on transboundary air pollution and more specifically on amendments to its heavy metals protocol. the adoption of these amendments will make it possible to add a number of types of heavy metals to the list of products concerned, thus strengthening the fight against air pollution.
in writing. - heavy metals are real poisons for man and nature. the health effects are too numerous to mention. the objectives of the amendments are in full accordance with union law. however, since the member states are already signatories, it does not seem to me that it is essential for the eu to ratify these amendments. on the other hand, it could be recommended that it invite certain major industrial powers, such as the united states or china, to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not bring anything new to the fight against crossborder heavy metal pollution. secondly, and most importantly, the member states are already parties to the protocol concerned.
in writing. ‒ the protocol in question concerns crossborder pollution over long distances. the amendments are designed to set emission limit values for dust containing heavy metals or persistent organic pollutants (pops). the effects of these pollutants and pops are disastrous for human health, but also for fauna and flora. the population of migratory birds has been drastically reduced by these toxic pollutants. nevertheless, the european states have already signed this protocol, which is under the auspices of the un. the eu does not need to ratify these amendments, and should instead consider inviting industrial powers outside the eu (the us, china) to sign the treaty. in order to make this point, and since this vote is superfluous, i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the amendments are designed to set emission limit values for dust containing heavy metals. this protocol is under the auspices of the un and the eu member states and the eu as an organisation are signatories. the negative health effects of heavy metals are no longer to be explained, which is why it is important to deal with them. we are opposed to this text, however, because the member states have already signed these amendments, so we do not think it is necessary for the eu to ratify them in turn.
in writing. ‒ several studies carried out between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before being precipitated. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution, signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants. the report proposes that the council approve, on behalf of the european union, an amendment to the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants. this amendment sets stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources. i am voting for this text and i hope that it will be swiftly opposed to criminal emissions of lignite in germany.
in writing. ‒ supporting the amendment on heavy metal pollution does not seem sensible to me. i note that with the exception of malta, the eu member states are already signatories to the aarhus protocol on this subject. the committee's recommendation does not add value or have any legal significance. it seems to me more useful for the eu to approach the major industrial powers and invite them to join this protocol under the auspices of the un. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to set emission limit values for dust containing heavy metals or persistent organic pollutants. the aarhus protocol is under the auspices of the un, and the signatory parties are mainly the european states and the european union. these heavy metals are real poisons for man and nature. for example, nearly half of the migratory birds have already disappeared because of the effects of pops on the sense of direction. the health effects of heavy metals are well known. the objectives of the amendments are in full accordance with union law. however, since the member states have already signed them, we do not think it is essential that the eu ratifies them. on the other hand, it could be recommended that it approach the major industrial powers to invite them to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol, particularly the united states or china, which have not ratified them.
in writing. ‒ since the member states have already signed this text, it does not seem necessary for the eu to ratify these amendments. it might be interesting to approach the major industrial powers of third countries and invite them to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol, such as the united states (not ratified) or china (neither).
in writing. ‒ i have approved this text which authorises the eu to ratify the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution relating to heavy metals. these amendments are fully consistent with the european legislation in force. their ratification will represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the report on long-range transboundary air pollution from heavy metals follows international agreements in compliance with and consistency with eu legislation. the ratification of these is an important step towards better protection of health and the environment, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ heavy metals and pops are real poisons for man and nature. this has been proven by multiple studies. the objectives of the amendments are in full accordance with union law. however, the member states are already signatories to the protocol and the eu ratification therefore has no added value. it would be more effective to stop negotiating ttip with the united states which has signed without ratifying the protocol and to refuse to move forward in our trade relations with china which has not even signed it. as is often the case, the eu is full of symbols but continues to take harmful concrete actions. i therefore vote against this text which cannot have any real effect on anything.
in writing. ‒ crossborder heavy metal pollution is a phenomenon that we must take very seriously. the report has the advantage of providing much more extensive and thorough protection for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens in this area. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to revise the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution by heavy metals, as i did for persistent organic pollutants. this convention is important because it aims to reduce the risks to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. since its adoption in 1979, the text has been amended and extended by means of eight protocols. the one we are amending here is about reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, which are dangerous heavy metals carried by the atmosphere over very long distances. the proposed changes set stricter limit values for dust emissions from large fixed sources and provide for transitional provisions for future parties that will accede to the protocol by the end of 2019, including countries in central and south-eastern europe. the proposed elements are consistent with current eu legislation or will be through the revision of the directive on national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants, and should allow a new step forward in the protection of human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the approval of the amendment to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning heavy metals. the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983, is the first legally binding international instrument to protect the human environment from air pollution. in 2001, the eu acceded to the 1998 protocol to reduce and control emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere. in december 2012, that protocol was amended to establish stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources. the limit values set by this amendment to the 1998 protocol are already very largely covered by current european legislation. the ratification of these amendments by the eu represents a step towards a higher level of protection of the environment and the health of european citizens from air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the aarhus protocol is concerned with long-distance transboundary pollution. it is placed under the auspices of the un, the signatory parties being mainly european states and the european union. not all eu countries are at the same level of commitment. malta is the only country that has neither signed nor ratified it. heavy metals and pops are real poisons for man and nature. the objectives of the amendments are in full accordance with union law. however, since the member states are already signatories, it does not seem to us that it is essential for the eu to ratify these amendments. on the other hand, it could be recommended that it approach the major industrial powers of third countries to invite them to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol, such as the united states (which has not ratified) or china (neither). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this recommendation on amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. if persistent organic pollutants are extremely harmful to both man and nature, and if these amendments are in line with eu legislation, then the member states are already signatories to this protocol. i therefore believe that it is not necessary for the eu to sign these amendments. it would not add value. it would also be wise to have the aarhus protocol ratified by the major industrial powers of third countries such as the united states or china.
in writing. ‒ support for the amendment on pops is not necessary. with the exception of malta, all eu countries have already signed the aarhus protocol on this subject. the committee's recommendation does not add value or have any legal significance. it would be more useful if the eu approached the major industrial powers and invited them to join the protocol under the auspices of the un. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these amendments because they represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution. winds know no borders, so the problems of air pollution must be tackled at european and international level.
in writing. ‒ the aarhus protocol , named after the second city in denmark where the first convention was signed in june 1998, five years before the protocol of the same name , concerns long-distance transboundary pollution. the amendments in question are designed to set emission limit values for dust containing heavy metals or persistent organic pollutants (such as pcbs). the aarhus protocol is under the auspices of the un, and the signatory parties are mainly the european states and the european union. but not all eu states are at the same stage of commitment and malta, for example, has neither signed nor ratified the aarhus protocol. heavy metals and pops - persistent organic pollutants - are real poisons for man and nature. for example, nearly half of the migratory birds have already disappeared because of the effects of pops on their sense of direction. however, these amendments are already largely covered by our legislation and the eu would do better to ask third countries such as the united states or china to sign and/or ratify this protocol first, before imposing new constraints on us.
in writing. ‒ this amendment concerns the aarhus protocol on transboundary pollution by heavy metals (e.g. pcbs). the signatories to this protocol are mostly european states and the european union. the amendments are already largely covered by eu legislation. the commission's recommendation has no added value or legal effect, especially since the member states are already parties to the protocol. it is of no use to support this recommendation. on the other hand, the european union can only be invited to approach the major industrial powers to invite them to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol, such as the united states (not ratified) or china (not ratified and non-signatory). i therefore decided to vote against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the amendments to the aarhus protocol on long-range transboundary pollution set emission limit values for dust containing persistent organic pollutants. the member states are already signatories, so it is not necessary for the eu to ratify these amendments. the commission should instead approach the major industrial powers of third countries to invite them to sign and/or ratify the protocol, such as the united states or china. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aarhus protocol, which is under the auspices of the united nations, aims to limit long-range transboundary air pollution. almost all the signatory parties are member states of the european union, although not all are at the same level of commitment. these amendments are designed to set emission limits for dust containing persistent organic pollutants. in the final analysis, we know very well that persistent organic pollutants are a real danger to man and to nature. from a legal point of view, we believe that the objectives of these amendments are in full accordance with european union law. however, we do not consider it essential for the european parliament to ratify these amendments, since the member states are already signatories. if the aim of the european institutions, which are always well-intentioned, is to reduce the emission of these dusts, then the real challenge is to convince the federal authorities of the united states and those of emerging countries such as china and india to ratify the aarhus protocol. i therefore voted against these amendments.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report proposes the european parliament's support for the amendments to the protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution as regards heavy metals. the convention, which entered into force in 1983, has created a framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by air pollution in crossborder areas. in 2012, amendments were adopted to set stricter limits on emissions of organic pollutants, and to introduce a flexible transitional regime for new parties to the convention, including eastern and south-eastern european countries. as these amendments are already covered by european legislation under the revised national emission ceilings (nec) directive recently adopted by parliament and currently under negotiation with the council, i supported this report.
in writing. the european parliament approved the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. i am of course in favour of any measure aimed at improving the protection of the health of european citizens, but also of their environment.
in writing. ‒ as with the heavy metals issue, the objectives of these amendments are laudable, but they do not add any value to the existing european legislation. i was opposed to this text because i was opposed to the counterproductive multiplication of standards and texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe it is not the role of the european union to ratify amendments to an international treaty.
in writing. ‒ i do not think it is necessary to support the amendment on pops. i note that, with the exception of malta, the eu states are already signatories to the aarhus protocol on this subject. the committee's recommendation does not add value or have any legal significance. i would therefore consider it more useful if the eu approached the major industrial powers and invited them to join this protocol under the auspices of the un. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague giovanni la via on the recommendation on long-range transboundary air pollution from persistent organic pollutants. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has created a framework to reduce the harm pollution causes to health and the environment. the protocol on persistent organic pollutants was revised to improve its effectiveness and seven new toxic substances were added. i therefore approved the council's decision to ratify this protocol and its amendments. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation on the convention on transboundary air pollution and more specifically on amendments to its protocol on persistent organic pollutants. the adoption of these amendments will make it possible to insert seven new toxic substances in the protocol.
in writing. ‒ persistent organic pollutants are real poisons for man and nature. for example, nearly half of the migratory birds have already disappeared because of the effects of pops on the sense of direction. the objectives of the amendments are in full accordance with union law. however, since the member states are already signatories, it does not seem to me that it is essential for the eu to ratify these amendments. on the other hand, it could be recommended that it invite certain major industrial powers, such as the united states or china, to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not bring anything new to the fight against persistent organic pollutants. on the other hand, the member states are already parties to the protocol in question.
in writing. ‒ the protocol in question concerns crossborder pollution over long distances. the amendments are designed to set emission limit values for dust containing heavy metals or persistent organic pollutants (pops). the effects of these pollutants and pops are disastrous for human health, but also for fauna and flora. the population of migratory birds has been drastically reduced by these toxic pollutants. nevertheless, the european states have already signed this protocol, which is under the auspices of the un. the eu does not need to ratify these amendments, and should instead consider inviting industrial powers outside the eu (the us, china) to sign the treaty. in order to make this point, and since this vote is superfluous, i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the amendments are designed to set emission limit values for dust containing persistent organic pollutants. this protocol is under the auspices of the un and the eu member states and the eu as an organisation are signatories. persistent organic pollutants are poisons for man and nature and are responsible for the disruption of the direction of migratory birds. we oppose this text, despite its importance, because the member states have already signed these amendments, so we do not think it is necessary for the eu to ratify them in turn.
in writing. ‒ several studies carried out between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before being precipitated. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution, was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it was the first legally binding international instrument in this field. to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants. the report proposes that the council approve, on behalf of the european union, an amendment to the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants. the amended protocol includes seven new substances, an update of the application regime for several substances and an update of the restrictions for certain emissions. i hope that he will oppose the criminal pollution from the german lignite mines which are creating pollution peaks in france, i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i do not think it is necessary to support the amendment on pops. i note that, with the exception of malta, the eu states are already signatories to the aarhus protocol on this subject. the committee's recommendation does not add value or have any legal significance. it seems to me therefore more useful that the eu should approach the major industrial powers and invite them to join this protocol under the auspices of the un. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ since the member states are already signatories, it does not seem necessary for the eu to ratify these amendments. it might be useful, however, to recommend that it approach the major industrial powers of third countries to invite them to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol, such as the united states (not ratified) or china (neither).
in writing. ‒ i have approved this text which authorises the eu to ratify the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution relating to persistent organic pollutants. these amendments are fully consistent with the european legislation in force. their ratification will represent an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the report on long-range transboundary air pollution for persistent organic pollutants is in line with its counterpart on heavy metals. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ pops, like heavy metals, are real poisons for man and nature. this has been proven by multiple studies. the objectives of the amendments are in full accordance with union law. however, the member states are already signatories to the protocol and the eu ratification therefore has no added value. it would be more effective to stop negotiating ttip with the united states which has signed without ratifying the protocol and to refuse to move forward in our trade relations with china which has not even signed it. as is often the case, the eu is full of symbols but continues to take harmful concrete actions. as in the previous vote, i am therefore voting against this text, which cannot have any real effect on anything.
in writing. ‒ transboundary pollution by persistent organic pollutants is a phenomenon that we must take very seriously. the report has the advantage of providing much more extensive and thorough protection for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens in this area. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation to approve the revision of the convention on long-range air pollution by persistent organic pollutants. the convention, adopted in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, and revised and extended several times by means of several protocols since then, was at the time the first legally binding instrument to control and reduce the risks to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. it is a reference text and an important one, since it aims at better cooperation and at limiting and reducing this pollution, an importance all the more evident when we remember that air pollutants can be transported over several thousand kilometres before being precipitated. the amendments which are proposed to us and which now have to be ratified by the parties are consistent with union legislation where they are already covered, or are in the process of being covered, by the new directive on national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants. they should make it possible to take a new step in the protection of human health and the environment, in particular by adding new substances, updating the application regime for others or establishing new limit values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the approval of the amendment to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning persistent organic pollutants. the 1979 convention on transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983, is the first legally binding international instrument to protect the human environment from air pollution. the eu is acceding to the 1998 protocol, which came into force in 2003, to combat the release of persistent organic pollutants by banning certain substances and setting emission thresholds for others. in 2009, the protocol was amended to add seven new substances to the list and to update the schedules for certain substances. these amendments are largely covered by european union legislation. this amendment also provides for exemptions and transposition periods in order to comply with the protocol. the ratification of these amendments by the eu represents a step towards a higher level of protection of the environment and the health of european citizens from air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the aarhus protocol is concerned with long-distance transboundary pollution. it is placed under the auspices of the un, the signatory parties being mainly european states and the european union. not all eu countries are at the same level of commitment. malta is the only country that has neither signed nor ratified it. heavy metals and pops are real poisons for man and nature. the objectives of the amendments are in full accordance with union law. however, since the member states are already signatories, it does not seem to us that it is essential for the eu to ratify these amendments. on the other hand, it could be recommended that it approach the major industrial powers of third countries to invite them to sign and/or ratify the aarhus protocol, such as the united states (which has not ratified) or china (neither). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the aim of the text is to approve an agreement on judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, but it also provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. this last provision is unacceptable to me.
in writing. ‒ together with my colleagues from the national front, we are opposed to a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine which would seek increased judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime. we are particularly opposed to the cooperation arrangements between eurojust and ukraine which include the exchange of personal data. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cooperation agreement because it aims to strengthen the fight against transnational crime and judicial cooperation in europe. eurojust's operational cooperation with ukraine is necessary to facilitate the fight against serious crime and to contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation, in particular with regard to terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the draft agreement includes provisions on cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. i do not think that this last point is acceptable and i do not think that the conditions are right for ever closer cooperation with ukraine, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, and more particularly organised crime and terrorism is a laudable intention. interesting prospects are being considered, such as the secondment of a ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust. however, the exchange of information, including personal data, seems unacceptable to me. the protection of personal data and respect for the privacy of individuals are fundamental rights. it is necessary to maintain a balanced approach between enhancing the security of european citizens and safeguarding human rights, in particular with regard to the protection of personal data. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am of course always in favour of any measure to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, but i am strongly opposed to exchanges of information including personal data. that is what this report says. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the approval of an agreement between europol and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against criminal networks and terrorism. this report includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust, but above all on the exchange of information, including personal data. we strongly oppose the european union's desire to continually increase its influence in third countries. it is therefore our duty to protect these countries from the interference of the european institutions in their national affairs. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in this consultation report, the european parliament gives its approval to the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, with the aim of strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the agreement provides for operational measures to facilitate cooperation on the ground, such as the secondment of a ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust and the sharing of information. the exchange of personal data will be authorised after consultation of the joint data protection supervisory authority and the approval of the council. i have supported this report, considering that the strengthening of the union's external borders in the fight against terrorism requires better cooperation with the third countries bordering on it.
in writing. the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine will strengthen relations, which are essential in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. that is why i support this text. such an agreement allows for the exchange of information between eurojust and ukraine, but also for the secondment of liaison officers or magistrates to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ in order to better combat organised crime and terrorism, it is proposed to approve cooperation between europol and ukraine, including exchanges of information, some of which is of a personal nature. this is a further step backwards in the guarantee of public freedoms, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because certain provisions concerning, in particular, the transfer of personal data have nothing to do with the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. - errare humanum is, perseverare diabolicum. - i know. just over a year ago, the eu signed an association agreement with ukraine covering a wide range of economic and political areas, including visa liberalisation for workers, or substantial financial assistance. it is not so much for the sake of ukraine, which the march towards ultra-liberalism in the brussels style will end up disorganizing, as for provoking russia. the agreement has not yet been ratified by all the member states, and the netherlands in particular, under popular pressure, was obliged to hold a referendum on the subject in april. according to opinion polls, 75% of the dutch population is hostile to this association. the imf, the country's main donor, is threatening to cut off supplies because of rampant corruption and a weak fight against it. today we are being offered a judicial cooperation agreement with that country, including the exchange of data, including personal data. there is no guarantee, of course, that the ukrainian authorities will be able to ensure that the equipment is used in accordance with european standards. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i refuse to approve a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine which would seek increased judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime. i particularly deplore the cooperation arrangements between eurojust and ukraine, including the exchange of personal data. i also do not accept the possibility of having a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. this is an approval procedure for operational and judicial cooperation between eurojust and the ukrainian authorities. the purpose is to facilitate the exchange of data, as the independence of the agency responsible for the processing of such data in ukraine has been validated. in addition, a ukrainian liaison officer would be deployed to eurojust. in our time, judicial cooperation is more important than ever. i therefore approved the effective establishment of closer cooperation between ukraine and the european union. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to approve the decision on operational and judicial cooperation between eurojust and the ukrainian authorities. this cooperation will include exchanges of personal information between ukraine and the eu to combat the most serious forms of crime and corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to me. i am opposed to the systematic and widespread use of personal data of french citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this draft agreement because it includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the exchange of information, including personal data. i'm hostile to this kind of exchange.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report sought to approve an agreement on judicial cooperation between europol and ukraine, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the operational provisions of the agreement relate, for example, to the secondment of a ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust, to the exchange of information, but also, and above all, to the exchange of personal data. this crucial point is unacceptable to me and to all the members of our group, who fight every day to push back against this objective of the european union.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this text. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, especially in the fight against terrorism. the agreement provides, inter alia, for the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and for the exchange of information, including personal data. it is this last point which prevents us from supporting this project: europe should not have access to this information.
in writing. ‒ this agreement allows cooperation between eurojust, the european agency for judicial cooperation, and ukraine. it provides for the exchange of data between states, in particular to combat organised crime and terrorism, and facilitates the coordination of investigations and prosecutions in the states. while it takes some third countries years to negotiate cooperation agreements, it is much faster for ukraine. anything is good to reinforce an inept anti-russian game, including with a country whose judicial system is particularly fallible, corrupt and in the service of a well-established oligarchy supported by neo-nazis. moreover, parliament is merely consulted and the decision will be implemented anyway, which is yet another proof of the appearance of european democracy. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i refuse to approve a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine which would seek increased judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime. i particularly deplore the cooperation arrangements between eurojust and ukraine, including the exchange of personal data. i also do not accept the possibility of having a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the proposals include the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to us.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. the latter aspect is unacceptable, and i shall therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the agreement on operational and judicial cooperation between eurojust and the ukrainian authorities. the aim is to improve the fight against crime by promoting the exchange of information and allowing the secondment of ukrainian liaison officers to eurojust. eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder and organised crime and to bring criminals to justice in a timely and effective manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to implement the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to allow for a strengthening of judicial cooperation between the parties. the agreement will include the exchange of information and the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, including in particular the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to me. i therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ we are seeking to validate the principle of closer relations between eurojust and its ukrainian counterpart. this is an important step towards closer cooperation in judicial matters, both in the field of distance relations and on the ground.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the council's draft cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. the aim is to deepen this operational cooperation, for example by seconding a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and by exchanging information. this agreement will facilitate and intensify the fight against serious forms of crime and will contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation, particularly in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to us. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the aim of the text is to approve an agreement on judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, but it also provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. this last provision is unacceptable to me.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and montenegro which would seek increased judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime. in particular, i reject the cooperation arrangements between eurojust and montenegro which include the exchange of personal data. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ crime and terrorism have no borders, which is why i voted in favour of this agreement, the fruit of a long work by my colleague nathalie griesbeck, which strengthens the fight against international crime and judicial cooperation in europe. it is essential that eurojust cooperate with montenegro to support and strengthen the fight against serious crime and to contribute to improving judicial cooperation, in particular with regard to organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the draft agreement includes provisions on cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. i do not think that this last point is acceptable and i do not think that the conditions are right for ever closer cooperation with montenegro, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is a commendable attempt to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, and more particularly organised crime and terrorism. interesting prospects are being considered, such as the secondment of a montenegro liaison officer to eurojust. however, the exchange of information, including personal data, seems unacceptable to me. the protection of personal data and respect for the privacy of individuals are fundamental rights. it is necessary to maintain a balanced approach between enhancing the security of european citizens and safeguarding human rights, in particular with regard to the protection of personal data. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am of course always in favour of any measure to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, but i am strongly opposed to exchanges of information including personal data. that is what this report says. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the approval of an agreement between europol and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against criminal networks and terrorism. this report includes provisions in terms of operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer to eurojust but above all the exchange of information, including personal data. we strongly oppose the european union's desire to continually increase its influence with the member states and third countries alike. it is therefore our duty to protect these countries from the interference of the european institutions in their national affairs. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in this consultation report, the european parliament gives its approval to the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro, with the aim of strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the agreement provides for operational measures to facilitate cooperation on the ground, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from montenegro to eurojust and the sharing of information. the exchange of personal data will be authorised after consultation of the joint data protection supervisor and approval by the council. considering that third countries around the external borders of the european union are privileged transit points for terrorists, i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the cooperation of the montenegrin authorities with the european agency eurojust.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement on cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. it is important to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. this shall include the exchange of information and the secondment of liaison officers or magistrates to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ as with the proposal for cooperation with ukraine to combat organised crime and terrorism, exchanges of personal data with montenegro are not desirable. these are not the cure for all the evils mentioned, made possible by the deliberate porosity of our borders and by uncontrolled mass immigration. that is why, in keeping with my political position, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to the transfer of personal data, which has nothing to do with the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 2 february, i voted in favour of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. eurojust was established in 2002 to promote and strengthen coordination and cooperation between national authorities in the fight against serious crossborder crime in the european union. the report approves the conclusion by eurojust of the agreement on cooperation between eurojust and montenegro with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. such cooperation agreements may concern the exchange of information, including personal data, and the secondment of liaison officers or magistrates to eurojust. in order to strengthen the fight against international crime and judicial cooperation in europe, it is clearly essential from an operational point of view that eurojust establishes cooperation with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i refuse to approve a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine which would seek increased judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime. i particularly deplore the cooperation arrangements between eurojust and montenegro, including the exchange of personal data. i also do not accept the possibility of having a liaison officer from montenegro with eurojust. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs nathalie griesbeck, on the council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the agreement aims to strengthen judicial cooperation between eurojust and montenegro. it thus deals with the exchange of information and provides for the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. i supported the effective establishment of closer cooperation between montenegro and the european union in order to improve the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the decision on operational and judicial cooperation between eurojust and the montenegrin authorities. this cooperation will be reflected in exchanges of information between montenegro and the european union to combat crime and corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to me. i am opposed to the systematic and widespread use of personal data of french citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this mou because it includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the exchange of information, including personal data. i am opposed to this kind of exchange.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report sought to approve an agreement on judicial cooperation between europol and montenegro, in particular in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the operational arrangements provided for in this agreement relate, for example, to the secondment of a montenegrin liaison officer to eurojust, to the exchange of information, but above all also to the exchange of personal data. this crucial point is unacceptable to me and to all the members of our group, who fight every day to push back against this objective of the european union.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. as before, the matter is to approve a cooperation agreement between eurojust (the european agency for judicial cooperation) and montenegro. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, especially in the fight against terrorism. the agreement provides, inter alia, for the secondment of a liaison officer from montenegro to eurojust and for the exchange of information, including personal data. it is this last point which prevents us from supporting this project, as we have done before: europe should not have access to this information.
in writing. ‒ this agreement allows for cooperation between eurojust, the european agency for judicial cooperation and montenegro. it provides for the exchange of data between states, in particular to combat organised crime and terrorism and to facilitate the coordination of investigations and prosecutions in the states. i am opposed to such cooperation, which serves as a pretext for montenegro to join the european union, in a country where the judicial system is still particularly fallible. moreover, parliament is merely consulted and the decision will be implemented anyway, which is yet another proof of the appearance of european democracy. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i refuse to approve a cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine which would seek increased judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime. i particularly deplore the cooperation arrangements between eurojust and montenegro, including the exchange of personal data. i also do not accept the possibility of having a liaison officer from montenegro with eurojust. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the proposals include the secondment of a liaison officer from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to us.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this last point is unacceptable, and i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report authorising the judicial cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. the aim is to strengthen the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, by promoting the exchange of information and the secondment of liaison officers or magistrates to eurojust. eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder and organised crime and to bring criminals to justice in a timely and effective manner.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro contains provisions similar to those contained in the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. this agreement will result in enhanced cooperation between the parties, including through the secondment of a liaison prosecutor from montenegro to eurojust. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, in particular on the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to me. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to validate the principle of closer cooperation between eurojust and the montenegrin authorities, particularly in the area of crime and terrorism. these rapprochements are always positive as long as they affect the safety of our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs griesbeck, on her report, which was adopted by a large majority in this house. this text, which i supported, gives a positive opinion on the council's draft cooperation agreement between the european agency eurojust and montenegro. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen judicial cooperation in europe and to better combat serious forms of crime, including organised crime and terrorism. cooperation with montenegro is necessary in this respect at an operational level. in concrete terms, a liaison prosecutor from montenegro will be seconded to eurojust and exchanges of information will take place, among other things. the tragic events that have struck our country in recent months are a reminder of the urgent need to step up the fight against the scourges of organised crime and terrorism. we also ask the council to inform this house if it intends to amend the agreement and to consult us again if it intends to amend it substantially.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the draft council agreement on cooperation between eurojust and montenegro with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the agreement aims to deepen this operational cooperation, for example by the secondment of a liaison prosecutor from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this agreement will facilitate and intensify the fight against serious forms of crime and will contribute to strengthening judicial cooperation, particularly in the field of organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. this last aspect is particularly unacceptable to us. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a european parliament decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. this proposal followed two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic which had been forwarded by the prosecutor general of the republic of poland. this is an alleged violation of polish traffic law. in this case, it is necessary to waive the immunity of a polish member of parliament so that he can pay his fines in poland. there is also no indication that there was any intention to harm the polish member of parliament. in respect of polish law, which requires the waiver of immunity, i support this text.
in writing. ‒ this request does not seem to be motivated by a desire to harm the political action of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. therefore, i am in favour of his immunity being lifted so that he is able to pay his fine. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. in order for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived. that's why i didn't object.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish traffic code. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the political activity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. polish law requires that his immunity be lifted so that he can pay his fine. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the general inspectorate of road safety requesting the waiver of the immunity of mep robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz for two alleged offences. in order for this mep to be able to get rid of his fines, it is necessary to withdraw his parliamentary immunity. since this request was clearly not made with the intention of harming the political activity of this member of the european parliament, i decided to support the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ regarding the waiver of the immunity of the polish member of parliament, who is alleged to have committed a traffic offence, there is no indication that there is a desire to harm the political activity of this elected member. in this case, and in order to allow the application of polish law, i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it does not concern the activities of a member of the european parliament in the exercise of his duties.
in writing. ‒ i do not think that this request is motivated by a desire to harm the political activity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. therefore, i am in favour of his immunity being lifted so that he is able to pay his fine. therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. this decision was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jarosław iwaszkiewicz, because this is not a political matter, but an alleged infringement of the polish road traffic code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm mr siekierski's political activity. polish law requires that his immunity be waived in order for him to pay his fine.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to waive the parliamentary immunity of a member of parliament prosecuted for a traffic offence.
in writing. - i voted for this immunity waiver. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish road traffic inspectorate for two alleged offences by robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. it was felt that this first request was not made to harm the member's activity, and therefore we feel it is necessary to lift his immunity so that he can pay his fines in poland.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate concerning an offence of speeding in an agglomeration. the polish road traffic control authority submits that on 7 september 2014, at 12.34 a.m., in the town of szklary, mr iwaszkiewicz was photographed by radar while driving a vehicle travelling at 79 km/h on a road where the authorised speed is 50 km/h. since the offence has no connection with his activity as a member of parliament and since robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz is not opposed to the waiver of immunity, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i do not think that this request is motivated by a desire to harm the political activity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. therefore, i am in favour of his immunity being lifted so that he is able to pay his fine. therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived, and i therefore vote for that waiver.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz's immunity was part of the normal procedure for offences against road traffic law. i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the mp's immunity to be lifted so that he can pay a fine for a traffic offence. as this has nothing to do with his political activity as a member of parliament, i have no reason to oppose the waiver of immunity and therefore i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity because in this case it is a joint procedure.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. in order for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this request does not seem to be motivated by a desire to harm the political action of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. therefore, i am in favour of his immunity being lifted so that he is able to pay his fine. i therefore voted in favour of this one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. in order for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived. that's why i didn't object.
in writing. ‒ this is an alleged violation of the polish traffic code. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm the political activity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. polish law requires that his immunity be lifted so that he can pay his fine. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the general inspectorate of road safety requesting the waiver of the immunity of mep robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz for two alleged offences. in order for this mep to be able to get rid of his fines, it is necessary to withdraw his parliamentary immunity. since this request was clearly not made with the intention of harming the political activity of this member of the european parliament, i decided to support the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ regarding the waiver of the immunity of the polish member of parliament, who is alleged to have committed a traffic offence, there is no indication that there is a desire to harm the political activity of this elected member. in this case, and in order to allow the application of polish law, i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it does not concern the activities of a member of the european parliament in his or her official capacity.
in writing. ‒ i do not think that this request is motivated by a desire to harm the political activity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. therefore, i am in favour of his immunity being lifted so that he is able to pay his fine. therefore, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. this decision was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jarosław iwaszkiewicz, because this is not a political matter, but an alleged infringement of the polish road traffic code, for speeding. there is no indication that there is any intention to harm mr siekierski's political activity. polish law requires that his immunity be waived in order for him to pay his fine.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to waive the parliamentary immunity of a member of parliament prosecuted for a traffic offence.
in writing. - dominique martin voted to waive that immunity. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish road traffic inspectorate for two alleged offences by robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz. it was felt that this second request was not made to harm the member's activity, and therefore we feel it is necessary to lift his immunity so that he can pay his fines in poland.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate concerning an offence of speeding in an agglomeration. the polish road traffic control authority submits that on 21 august 2014, at 23.46 in the town of rawicz, mr iwaszkiewicz was photographed by radar while driving a vehicle travelling at 94 km/h on a road where the authorised speed is 60 km/h. since the offence has no connection with his activity as a member of parliament and since robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz is not opposed to the waiver of immunity, i am voting in favour and i would ask mr iwaszkiewicz to drive carefully.
in writing. ‒ i do not think that this request is motivated by a desire to harm the political activity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. therefore, i am in favour of lifting his immunity so that he is able to pay his fine. therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived, and i therefore vote for that waiver.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the mp's immunity to be lifted so that he can pay a fine for a traffic offence. as this has nothing to do with his political activity as a member of parliament, i have no reason to oppose the waiver of immunity and therefore i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity because in this case it is a joint procedure.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded two requests from the polish general inspectorate of road traffic seeking the waiver of the immunity of robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, member of the european parliament elected for poland, in relation to two alleged offences. in the present case, the parliament was not able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. in order for a polish member of parliament to pay his fines in poland, his immunity must be waived. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to support the committee on legal affairs' opinion against the waiver of florian philippot's immunity. this text followed the defamation proceedings brought against him by the state of qatar. i agree with the committee on legal affairs that respect for freedom of expression and opinion is a sacred value.
in writing. ‒ in the qatar defamation case against florian philippot, i spoke out against the lifting of his parliamentary immunity as proposed in the report of the committee on freedom of expression. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ on 28 january 2016, the members of the committee on legal affairs gave a unanimous negative opinion to the waiver of his parliamentary immunity in the scandalous defamation proceedings brought by qatar against my colleague florian philippot. however, it is worth recalling the startling comments made by anne hidalgo, among others, in connection with the proceedings. asked in june about the complaint filed by qatar, the mayor of paris dared to say that the emirate had "reasons" to go to court if it felt "insulted". and she went so far as to shamefully praise the emirate for its "fight against homophobia, racism in the stadiums". this speaks volumes about the compromise of our so-called "ruling elites".
in writing. ‒ i would like to remind you that the defamation complaint lodged by qatar against a member of the european parliament, florian philippot, was lodged as a civil party and that france, through its custodian of the seals, was legally obliged to request the waiver of his parliamentary immunity in order to pursue the criminal proceedings against him. it is not, as i have heard from a number of sources, a question of the french government's partial willingness to prosecute this elected official. the french government was simply obliged to follow this type of procedure. we should also remember and welcome the fact that the european parliament has established this system of protection for its members for their words or opinions expressed in the exercise of their duties. this freedom of opinion must be the subject of absolute immunity when the conditions of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union are met. that was the case here, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with article 26 of the constitution of the french republic, which provides that 'no member of parliament may be prosecuted, searched, arrested, detained or tried for opinions or votes he or she expresses in the exercise of his or her functions' and that 'no member of parliament may be subject, in criminal or correctional matters, to arrest or any other measure depriving or restricting liberty' without parliamentary authorisation, the european parliament refused to waive parliamentary immunity in the florian philippot v qatar case. this case has brought to light the compromise of the french government and more particularly of the former keeper of the seals, mrs taubira, who signed the request for the waiver of immunity with her hand. i welcome the fact that florian philippot's parliamentary immunity has not been waived. it is regrettable that a foreign country should be able to take french justice to attack a french parliamentarian for the sole purpose of intimidating him over remarks which fall within the scope of his freedom of expression. i have therefore decided to vote against the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot.
in writing. ‒ as a reminder, in march 2015, the state of qatar filed a defamation complaint against mep florian philippot, for remarks he made two months earlier. the request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity was clearly made with the intention of harming his political activity. it would be absolutely scandalous and terrifying for a member of the european parliament to be prosecuted and convicted for an opinion he expressed in the exercise of his duties, since freedom of expression is one of the core values of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this complaint is all the more scandalous because it comes from an islamist dictatorship in which human rights are regularly violated and the dignity of women is trampled. that is why i voted for this report, which opposes the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot.
in writing. ‒ florian philippot, mep, is currently the subject of a libel case brought by the state of qatar, which does not accept criticism of him. the role of meps is naturally to support the elected representative and to defend his freedom of expression and opinion. i was opposed to the waiver of his parliamentary immunity, as were the members of the committee on legal affairs, who voted unanimously in favour of the report opposing the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is opposed to the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament who has defended a political opinion in the course of his mandate.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that for once the european parliament has decided to maintain the parliamentary immunity of a member of the front national. i am afraid that this is not in the name of the strict freedom of expression of parliamentarians, nor in the name of justice and fairness. i believe that the european parliamentarians wanted to protect themselves, since they spend their time, inside and outside the chamber, judging all the countries of the world. indeed, florian philippot is being sued for defamation by a state, qatar. florian philippot suggested that qatar was funding the most radical islamist groups. he is not alone in france and europe to question the troubled relations of some gulf countries with terrorism. parliament invoked the separation of powers against the interference of the executive in the exercise of the parliamentary mandate and the fact that the member, commenting on the union's foreign policy, was in the exercise of his mandate in order to defend his immunity. i hope that by analogy and logic, any comment on the disastrous consequences of the arrival and mass presence of immigration encouraged by schengen, will now also be judged at this level, which has never been the case.
in writing. ‒ in the qatar defamation case against florian philippot, i spoke against the lifting of his parliamentary immunity, as proposed in the report of the committee on freedom of expression. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the decision on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot. the facts alleged against mr philippot concern remarks made in a radio and television debate which were part of his duties as an elected member of the european parliament. therefore, i considered that the waiver of parliamentary immunity was not justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possible waiver of the parliamentary immunity of my colleague florian philippot. this request is made in the context of a defamation case brought by the state of qatar. i was pleased to note that on 28 january, in the name of defending freedom of expression and opinion, the members of the committee on legal affairs gave a negative opinion on the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. they therefore rightly voted unanimously in favour of the report, opposing the lifting of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it refuses to waive the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot, who is being prosecuted by the state of qatar for daring to criticise it publicly. i am proud to have successfully defended florian philippot in the legal affairs committee. the european parliament's plenary assembly has saved the honour of european civilization by unanimously refusing to waive his immunity. she thus slapped qatar and the french justice system, which passed on her defamation complaint.
in writing. ‒ this request for the waiver of florian philippot's parliamentary immunity comes in the context of a libel case brought by qatar. parliamentary immunity guarantees members the "defence of freedom of expression and opinion", which is why all members of the parliamentary committee on legal affairs unanimously opposed the lifting of this immunity. the rapporteur herself is asking here that florian philippot's immunity not be waived, a position which we support.
in writing. - the report defends the immunity of mr florian philippot. florian philippot is being sued for libel by the qatari state for having repeatedly stated, including on the set of rtl, that qatar supports terrorism. until then no state had ever asked for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament. it is true that qatar paid mr plantu 10,000 euros as a prize for press freedom. but he has given no evidence of respect for freedom of expression. it is a shame that he is pursuing a member of parliament in order to intimidate parliament, which guarantees his immunity. mr philippot was a member of parliament at the time of the events, but to accept such a waiver would be to infringe the fundamental freedoms of members of the european parliament. i am voting for this report which opposes the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ in the qatar defamation case against florian philippot, i spoke against the lifting of his parliamentary immunity, as proposed in the report of the committee on freedom of expression. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report rejects the waiver of the immunity of florian philippot, who merely used his freedom of expression in the context of his mandate as an mep by formulating a criticism of the policy of the state of qatar. we therefore follow the opinion of the juri committee.
in writing. ‒ it is quite unheard of for a parliamentarian to be prosecuted by a state for statements he made against him. it is a matter of respect for parliamentary democracy to be able to guarantee the free expression of the representatives of the citizens. in addition, in this case, qatar has been found to have participated in the financing of terrorist groups. the national front, a party whose silence cannot be bought, is concerned with bringing a vision of balanced diplomacy to a multipolar world and fully supports florian philippot's correct remarks. i voted for this report concluding that mr philippot's immunity should not be waived.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. the committee unanimously considered that the defamation complaint lodged by the state of qatar against mr philippot could not justify a waiver of his immunity. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of refusing to waive the immunity of mr florian philippot. the committee on legal affairs (juri), which has jurisdiction over the substance of the matter, unanimously considers that the remarks made by the member of parliament were part of the exercise of his parliamentary duties. i therefore followed the juri committee's proposal in order to defend its view of the freedom of expression of any member of parliament.
in writing. - this report concerns my own parliamentary immunity. in it, mrs ferrara recalls how the complaint by qatar against me was the archetype of the prosecution for which immunity was provided. in the context of his mandate, every parliamentarian must be able to enjoy full freedom of expression to defend his compatriots, including against the manoeuvres of foreign dictatorships such as qatar. it is scandalous that the french judiciary has accepted this complaint, which is clearly contrary to the main principles on which the status of parliamentarian has been based in france since at least 1789, as the members of the committee on legal affairs have unanimously recognized. i am glad that the most elementary law and justice have for once triumphed over sectarianism and blindness and i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the hearing of florian philippot took place on 11 january in the committee on legal affairs. she is intervening in a defamation case brought by the state of qatar. on 28 january 2016, in the name of 'defence of freedom of expression and opinion', the members of the committee on legal affairs gave a negative opinion on the waiver of his parliamentary immunity (they voted unanimously in favour of the report, opposing the waiver of his parliamentary immunity). i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of florian philippot was put to the vote in the european parliament on 2 february. the request was addressed to the european parliament by the french authorities following the complaint for defamation lodged by qatar against statements by florian philippot, when he was already an mep, alleging that qatar supported terrorism. this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is based on a specific feature of the french penal code which allows legal persons to prosecute a person for defamatory remarks; the french authorities were therefore legally obliged to forward the request for waiver of immunity to the european parliament, since a complaint for defamation had been lodged against an mep. the question put to the european parliament was therefore also purely legal. can a legal person, and in this case a foreign state, prosecute a member of the european parliament for statements made in the course of his duties? logically, the european parliament has rejected this request for waiver of immunity in the name of protecting the freedom of expression of any member of the european parliament in the course of his mandate. i voted in favour of this report rejecting this request for waiver of immunity on grounds of principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and discouraging undeclared work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat undeclared work, including the introduction of a new system of registration of undeclared work. moreover, this cooperation represents a new interference by the eu in the internal affairs of the member countries.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to combat undeclared work in all its forms by establishing better cooperation between member states. this report has good intentions. but it is clear that they will have only a limited effect and represent a further undermining of the sovereignty of states. the fight against social fraud and tax revenue loss remains best handled at national level. since amendment no 63 tabled by the efdd was not voted on - which would have left the member states free not to participate - i voted against this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work is one of the most complex and worrying problems facing europe. i voted in favour of the establishment of this platform because it will allow for the establishment of enhanced cooperation to combat labour law infringements, tax evasion and non-compliance with social security obligations. this platform is the first step towards the development of a work programme that will respond to the urgency of the current situation with regard to undeclared activities, while contributing to fair competition in the market and sustainable fiscal stabilisation.
in writing. ‒ despite the good reasons put forward, namely the fight against social fraud and the reduction of tax revenues, this form of imposed cooperation represents a new interference in the internal affairs of states. moreover, it is recognised that the most relevant actions are at national level, so that cooperation at european level will have only a very marginal impact on this phenomenon, which is constantly increasing in a crisis context and whose scale varies widely from one member state to another. i would have been prepared to vote for this text if the amendment tabled by the efdd group had been adopted: it called for the addition of a derogation clause allowing member states not to participate in this platform. the eurocrats did not want that and i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. the proposal is of course justified, whether in terms of fraud or taxation. but make no mistake about it. this problem varies enormously from one country to another, as each country has to deal with this scourge according to the context within its own territory. if the amendment containing the derogation clause allowing member states not to participate in this european platform had been adopted, i would have voted in favour of this resolution, although the impact on this phenomenon at european level remains marginal because of the differences in the problems encountered in the various countries. since the amendment was rejected, depriving the member states once again of their freedom and sovereignty in the name of the great europeanist dictate, i have decided to vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i condemn undeclared work in all its forms very strongly. however, this is a matter for the policy of each state in its design and application. the pirinski report emphasises this point. in these circumstances, i do not see what a european platform for the exchange of good practice could do to solve this problem. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to combat undeclared work which thrives in times of economic crisis to the detriment of the member states of the european union. the tool required in this text is the creation of a european platform which would strengthen cooperation between member states, national bodies and european institutions. the platform, funded by the easi progress strand, is intended to promote the exchange of information and good practice, but also to improve the training of relevant staff. whatever the reasons, we believe that the fight against social and tax fraud remains a matter for the member states and that such exchanges of data will have only a marginal impact on the achievement of this objective. we also oppose the european commission's desire to interfere in national affairs through often subtle means. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of a european platform to combat undeclared work. undeclared work is a scourge that deprives workers of protection, fosters unfair competition between companies and is a shortfall for governments in tax revenues. this platform will be composed of representatives of the member states, the commission and the social partners. the funding will be provided by the european union programme for employment and social innovation and the european social fund. such a measure will facilitate the exchange of information and good practice in the field of labour, thus strengthening the single market.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to set up a european platform to promote the fight against undeclared work. this platform will improve cooperation between national authorities for the prevention and detection of undeclared work and strengthen their technical capacity. one of the main objectives of this mechanism will be to raise public awareness through the sharing of good practice and analysis. in addition, in order to ensure the added value of this european platform, the european commission will have to submit an evaluation of this mechanism four years after its introduction. considering that this project respects the principle of subsidiarity on the one hand, and that undeclared work, which represents 18.4% of eu gdp, has negative effects both on workers who do not enjoy the right rights and on companies, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a european platform to strengthen cooperation to prevent and discourage undeclared work. the european union must do even more together with the member states to combat undeclared work and to promote employment and growth. it is therefore particularly appropriate to improve cooperation between the various national authorities responsible for this matter.
in writing. ‒ the undeclared economy accounts for an average of 18% of gdp in the european union, and reaches 30% of gdp for bulgaria, the most exposed member state. it thus represents a significant loss of income for the public authorities, but also exposes the 'underground' workers to precarious and dangerous working conditions. the european union must therefore work to curb this phenomenon and seek to reintegrate these workers into the legal labour market. the creation of a platform for the exchange of information between states and for cross-border action is a first step towards a more effective fight against undeclared work.
in writing. ‒ the consequences of undeclared work are very negative: severe exploitation, poor living and working conditions for millions of workers across the union, blatant unfair competition disrupting the single market, heavy losses for member states' budgets and social security systems, etc. that is why i voted in favour of the pirinski report on the establishment of a european platform for cooperation in preventing and discouraging undeclared work. i welcome the upcoming establishment of this platform which will add value to efforts to prevent and discourage undeclared work and to efforts to regularise the jobs concerned. the european platform is defined as a place to collect and share reliable information on good practices and persistent problems and to cooperate in the definition and implementation of effective enforcement of legislation and incentives.
in writing. ‒ the fight against all forms of undeclared work must be led by the states, which are best placed to provide relevant and effective responses to this issue, with the help of the social partners. this is an area in which the european countries must remain sovereign. i am not in favour of the creation of a platform with the commission as secretariat. as i am opposed to any forced interference in the internal affairs of states, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe that the fight against illegal work must remain the responsibility of the states.
in writing. ‒ brussels has decided to take an interest in the problem of undeclared work. to this end, it has created a 'platform', a bridge between the theodule committee and the office responsible for proposing standards. if the platform turns to the theodule committee, it will simply be burdened with unnecessary reports. it will serve as an alibi for the commission to show that it cares about the workers whose jobs are being lost or whose lives are being threatened by its laws, such as the 'posting of workers' directive. if it turns to the office, it will become the birthplace of ultra-liberal reforms of our labour codes - deemed too restrictive - of our social protection systems - deemed too expensive - of our wage policies - deemed too generous. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. so yes, we must fight against undeclared work, we must re-create the conditions so that no one has to be a fake self-employed to find work and that companies do not consider hiring as a potential trap that can put them at risk. but the solutions cannot come from this europe.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 9 february, i voted in favour of a report which aims to establish a european platform to combat undeclared work. it would strengthen cooperation between member states' labour ministries, trade unions and employers' associations on how best to manage a scourge that is hurting the eu economy and disrupting the labour market. the term 'undeclared work' is used to describe serious situations such as the exploitation of workers, precariousness, unfair competition and heavy losses for the states and their social security systems. the long-term objective is to contribute to improving working conditions and to the integration of undeclared workers into the labour market. i expect the member states to enforce labour laws, to carry out inspections and to punish abuses. too much european legislation fails to be transposed, applied or controlled by states, notably the directive on the posting of workers, which suffers from the shortcomings of national systems.
in writing. 18% of the eu's gdp. according to eurofund figures, this is what undeclared work represents in the european union. it is a real threat, to workers, to governments but also to the european economy. this distorts the labour market and is detrimental to the eu economy. it exacerbates the phenomena of social dumping. undeclared work also threatens workers who are often in precarious or exploitative situations. undocumented workers are often forced to accept dangerous working conditions and low wages. they lack social security, have no pension rights and have less access to health care. to discourage this phenomenon, i therefore advocated the creation of a european cooperation platform that will facilitate the exchange of information and good practice by proposing new solutions to the fight against undeclared work. the european union has just taken a first major step in the fight against undeclared work, but it still has a long way to go.
in writing. ‒ the proposed cooperation, while well-intentioned, will have only a limited effect. it represents a further breach of the sovereignty of states. i believe that the measures to be taken to combat social fraud and the resulting reduction in tax revenue are more relevant at national level. if amendment no 63 had been adopted, i could have supported the text, because it would have left the member states free not to participate. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague georgi pirinski on the proposal for a decision establishing a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and discouraging undeclared work. the consequences of undeclared work are very harmful and lead to situations of exploitation and precariousness for millions of workers throughout the union. in addition, there are very large losses to the budgets and social security systems in the member states, which penalise all the citizens who follow the rules. this would represent between 15% and 20% of eu gdp. that is why i support the establishment of this european platform to fight undeclared work more effectively. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the fight against undeclared work is an important battle for the public accounts of the member states. the aim of this important report on the fight against undeclared work is to create a platform at european level to exchange good practice between member states, improve cross-border cooperation and keep a register of companies that take advantage of the system's weaknesses. it will strengthen cooperation between the labour ministries, trade unions and employers' associations of the member states. i have of course voted in favour of this very good initiative which will help to improve working conditions in europe and promote the integration of undeclared workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european platform proposed by the commission aims to strengthen cooperation to prevent and discourage undeclared work. in practical terms, it should make it possible to share information and practices, to combat undeclared work and to have a better grasp of its cross-border aspects by facilitating cooperation between administrations in different countries. in the committee on employment we have amended this text so that it addresses the problems of the false selfemployed, european legislation and also non-cooperative national administrations, but also that it works on ways of regularizing undeclared work. i therefore supported the text. black-collar work is not only a loss of income for states, but it also represents a lack of protection for undeclared workers. in addition to these practices, there are new legal models of exploitation of workers which organize the avoidance of labour law and its taxation. these are all problems against which we need strong measures and the establishment of new european social rights. i therefore supported the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on undeclared work. whatever the good reasons put forward, namely the fight against social fraud and the decline in tax revenues, the form of cooperation imposed through a 'european platform' represents a new interference in the internal affairs of states. moreover, it is recognised that the most relevant actions are at national level, so that cooperation at european level will have only a very marginal impact on this phenomenon, which is constantly increasing in a crisis context and whose scale varies widely from one member state to another.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the fight against undeclared work is a matter for the member states and not for the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is paved with good intentions, namely the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work, the fight against social fraud and the reduction of tax revenues. nevertheless, it once again marks a certain interference in the internal affairs of states. in times of high unemployment, it is obvious that the relevant actions to be taken for employment are carried out at national level, whereas coordinated action at european level will have only a marginal impact on this phenomenon. for political reasons (refusal of eu interference in the internal politics of states) and pragmatic reasons (lack of significant impact of such measures), i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report. we are pleased to see some good ideas in this text, such as support for learning, alternance training and tutoring, which we have always supported. but, as usual, the eu is not responding properly to the problem. while it is clear that policies for the integration of young people into the labour market must be implemented, it is on the regional and local level that we must focus! public service networks are able to support young people in the transition to employment, in partnership with associations or private organisations, and especially in connection with enterprises, smes. as for youth entrepreneurship, it is a recurring idea with limited scope in a particularly difficult economic context, and it is often just a tool used to 'employ' young people and get them out of the unemployment figures. this is proof of the total failure of european education and training systems, and rather than admitting its limitations, europe is demanding more and more from states already weakened by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ since 1998, undeclared work has been defined at eu level as 'any paid activity of a legal nature, but not declared to the public authorities, ... taking into account the differences between the regulatory systems of the member states', which therefore excludes all illegal activities. the report denounces undeclared work as a factor of social dumping. it adds, of course, that this 'harms the union's economy, creates unfair competition and distorts the market, endangers the financial viability of the union's social models'. the european parliament's amendments propose to add 'false' work, which refers to any paid activity of a legal nature which is not properly declared to the public authorities. they also propose to focus on a particular form of undeclared work: the abuse of self-employment, whether at national level or in cross-border situations. thus, there is a false 'self-employment' when a person, although fulfilling the conditions characteristic of an employment relationship, is declared as a self-employed person in order to avoid certain legal or tax obligations. i am voting for this text which, although timidly, tackles the fraud of the status of 'self-employed'.
in writing. ‒ the proposed cooperation, while well-intentioned, will have only a limited effect. it represents a further breach of the sovereignty of states. i believe that the measures to be taken to combat social fraud and the resulting reduction in tax revenue are more relevant at national level. if amendment no 63 had been adopted, i could have supported the text, because it would have left the member states free not to participate. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes to strengthen cooperation between member states to promote the shift from undeclared work to regular employment. whatever the good reasons put forward by this report, namely the fight against social fraud and the reduction of tax revenue, this form of co-operation represents a new form of interference in the internal affairs of states. moreover, it is recognised that the most relevant actions are at national level, so that cooperation at european level will have only a very marginal impact on this phenomenon, which is constantly increasing in a crisis context.
in writing. ‒ whatever the good reasons put forward, namely the fight against social fraud and the reduction of tax revenues, this form of imposed cooperation represents a new interference in the internal affairs of states. moreover, it is recognised that the most relevant actions are at national level, so that cooperation at european level will have only a very marginal impact on this phenomenon, which is constantly increasing in a crisis context and whose scale varies widely from one member state to another. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the fight against undeclared work. the aim was to approve the strengthening of the means of cooperation between national authorities against this scourge which seriously harms eu economies and workers. this undeclared work term is concealed by serious situations such as the exploitation of workers, precariousness, unfair competition and heavy losses for the states and their social security system. i am particularly sensitive to the feeling of injustice expressed by the vast majority of european citizens who respect the rules in the face of the progress of this type of work. according to a 2013 eurobarometer study for the european commission, undeclared work is estimated to account for between 15 and 20% of the gdp of the member states. 50% of respondents consider undeclared work to be mutually beneficial, 40% cite the heavy tax burden and almost 50% mention the difficulty of finding a stable job. it is also essential to act upstream: member states must relax administrative rules and reduce the burden on businesses to promote declared employment.
in writing. ‒ undocumented work must be discouraged and combated. the establishment of a european platform for cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states is an important step forward in this field. i therefore voted in favour of an important report which respects the powers of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ whatever the good reasons for the creation of this platform, namely the fight against social fraud and the decrease in tax revenues, this form of imposed cooperation represents a new interference in the internal affairs of states. moreover, it is recognised that the most relevant actions are at national level, so that cooperation at european level will have only a very marginal impact on this phenomenon, which is constantly increasing in a crisis context and whose scale varies widely from one member state to another. a european platform would at best be another useless structure financed by taxpayers' money, which would be more useful elsewhere, at worst another harmful bureaucracy. i therefore vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of a european platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and discouraging undeclared work. beyond being illegal, undeclared work is detrimental to the smooth functioning of our society, as it does not contribute to our health and social redistribution systems. the amount of the costs or the administrative complexity are often cited as justification for the switch to undeclared work. i myself am fighting against the excessive taxation of labour and against the administrative overload which our country is unfortunately suffering from, in order to revive growth. but this is another debate, and we must not forget the figures: undeclared work accounts for about 20% of european gdp, sometimes even more in some countries not known for breaking tax records. so we must fight undeclared work for the sake of our companies and their law-abiding employees, for the sake of our living together.
in writing. ‒ undocumented work and sham self-employment have a significant budgetary impact and serious consequences for employment, productivity, skills development, pension rights and adequate social benefits, and the stability of social security systems. the existence of a cross-border dimension of this type of fraud requires action by the european union, whereas there is no formal structure to enable member states, responsible for combating undeclared work, to cooperate at european level. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of deciding on the future of the eu. this tool, by pooling resources and means, will make it possible to combat this problem more effectively, while promoting the regularisation of the jobs concerned. that is why i supported the report by georgi pirinski.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which calls for the establishment of a european platform to combat undeclared work, i.e. paid activities which are not reported to public authorities. this type of work has negative consequences such as severe exploitation situations, unfair competition disrupting the internal market and significant losses for the social security systems of the member states. a european platform would allow for the collection and sharing of reliable information on good practices and persistent problems; it would also develop cooperation in the definition and implementation of effective law enforcement. it is also essential that action be taken upstream, including the reduction of administrative and tax rules for our companies, in order to boost employment and growth.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work is equivalent to 18% of the eu's gdp and accounts for 8% to 30% of economic activity, depending on the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social security system is properly functioning. to build the european union, we must instead converge towards high social standards and the guarantee of the rights of all european workers. the fight against undeclared work is therefore a priority. i congratulate my socialist colleague, mr pirinski, on his report which foreshadows the creation of this european platform. it will include the social partners in a broad way in order to prevent and discourage such practices. the platform, which will involve all member states, will be designed to 'prevent, detect and combat undeclared work'. the aim of the directive will also be to encourage, rather than merely to impose, the legalisation of undeclared workers. this is a significant step forward and deserves to be welcomed, let us continue in this direction with a genuine european social agenda. the social europe in action is what our citizens expect.
in writing. ‒ in principle, the fight against illegal work remains a matter for the states, and its effectiveness depends to a large extent on the involvement of the social partners. the main actions of the platform will be to enable the exchange of information and good practice, to monitor actions at national level, and to encourage the training of relevant staff. whatever the good reasons put forward, namely the fight against social fraud and the reduction of tax revenues, this form of co-operation represents a new form of interference in the internal affairs of states. moreover, it is recognised that the most relevant actions are at national level, so that cooperation at european level will have only a very marginal impact on this phenomenon, which is constantly increasing in a crisis context and whose scale varies widely from one member state to another. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption in january 2014 of a european parliament resolution calling for the strengthening of cooperation between national labour inspectorates against undeclared work, the commission proposed in april 2014 the creation of a european platform in this area. after several months of negotiations, the european parliament and the council agreed to set up this platform. in addition to measures to strengthen cooperation and operational measures between national labour inspectorates such as joint investigations, the platform will also cover fictitious self-employment. however, following the negotiations between the council and parliament, states will no longer be obliged, contrary to the commission's initial proposal, to participate in all the activities of the platform and will be able to choose to implement its recommendations. once again, the member states have refused to build a real social europe. i voted for this report, however, because i believe it is a first step in the fight, at european level, against undeclared work, which deprives many workers of the most basic social rights in terms of social protection and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. this consensus text is lightweight and does not impose heavy constraints on the member states. it also encourages the reconciliation of environmental protection and economic development. the report is therefore commendable, although i regret that it does not defend the vital aspect of the environment for man, rooted in his own space.
in writing. ‒ i support this text in favour of biodiversity. it noted that efforts had been limited and expressed regret that the flexibilities granted to member states had prevented the proper application of the biodiversity directives. i regret the argument put forward in the text that the loss of biodiversity is a financial cost, whereas the emphasis should be on the importance of human ingrainment and, therefore, on the need to preserve the habitat and the environment. however, the whole text is consensual without imposing too heavy requirements on the member states and recalls the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development, which is a commendable approach.
in writing. ‒ within the european union, biodiversity has declined at an alarming rate. that is why i voted in favour of this review. our environmental protections are the highest in the world, we must defend eu legislation and ensure that it is properly implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, whose pragmatic approach is at odds with the dogmatism to which we eurocrats have become accustomed. the text repeatedly stresses the importance of reconciling environmental protection and economic development. i regret, however, that the amendments tabled by my group were not adopted, although they did point to some obvious points which it is high time the eurocrats took into account, in particular the disastrous effects on biodiversity of unlimited free trade.
in writing. ‒ this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy notes that efforts have been modest in this area. this is a reflection of the failure to apply properly the guidelines that cross this theme (habitats, birds...). biodiversity issues are argued to be a socioeconomic integration of the issue, with biodiversity loss identified as a financial cost. i regret that the vital aspect of the environment for man in his own space is not defended in this text. the whole text is consensual and does not seek to impose on the member states excessive requirements. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i regret that this report attributes the modest results achieved in biodiversity to the flexibilities granted to member states and that it attempts to reduce the issue of biodiversity to a financial issue. nevertheless, i welcome the fact that it stresses the need to reconcile respect for the environment with the need for development, which is very important to me. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy finds that efforts by member states are relatively modest, mainly because of the flexibilities granted to them. these have in fact limited the correct application of european directives. although it is regrettable that the issue of biodiversity is being dealt with in a financial approach, we appreciate the importance attached by the rapporteur to reconciling respect for the environment with economic development. it is essential not to impose too heavy requirements on member states, which are already suffering from the environmental dumping of the emerging countries and the united states. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has delivered its opinion on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. i voted in favour of this balanced report, which aims to fully implement the nature directives and support the european biodiversity strategy by 2020. it is important to remember that nature conservation and economic development are not mutually exclusive: the loss of biodiversity is detrimental to nature, to people and to the economy. to combat biodiversity loss, the european union needs to be able to measure the state of biodiversity with scientific indicators. this is one of the prerequisites for achieving the objectives of the strategy by 2020. it is important that the agricultural and forestry sectors are involved in achieving the objectives, which is why this report proposes a multilateral and participatory approach.
in writing. ‒ this strategic own-initiative report is parliament's contribution to the european commission's mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy (habitats and birds directives). the report notes a general loss of biodiversity. at the same time, we opposed the reopening of the texts, which would lead to a weakening of the legislation and a damaging legal instability. member states need to pay more attention to the implementation of existing rules to achieve the 2020 targets. i have been particularly active in this dossier in calling on the european commission to take adaptation measures for large carnivores (e.g. wolves) in order to preserve livestock in mountain areas. i also felt it was essential to call for better integration of local and regional actors, including farmers, in order to define a coherent biodiversity policy, which takes into account the activities of socioeconomic actors and the particularities of the territories. i think that this report sends a clear message to the european commission with recommendations that are in the right direction, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. with this vote, the european parliament wanted to reiterate its commitment and support for a strong eu strategy for biodiversity. at a time when our biodiversity is under serious threat from pollution and climate change, the european union and its member states need to show more political will by setting ambitious targets. it is therefore particularly relevant to underline the importance of innovation, research and development in achieving these objectives.
in writing. ‒ biodiversity is essential not only for the functioning of ecosystems but also for preserving air and water quality and for pollination. the european union has set itself the objective of halting biodiversity loss and restoring ecosystem services by 2020. it is therefore important that member states implement better the eu's habitats and birds directives and that the union increases funding for biodiversity and takes action to strengthen the coherence between its agricultural, energy and environmental policies. finally, effective and proportionate penalties must be introduced for non-compliance with the european nature protection directives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the demesmaeker report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. the report makes an urgent appeal to the european commission and the member states to set priorities to slow down the loss of europe's biodiversity. i am voting in favour of including local and regional actors in the definition of policies for the protection of biodiversity. i also think it is important to take account of the particularities of the territories in order to respect local activities. i have also raised the question of the protection of the big carnivores which threaten livestock in the mountainous areas. as regards neonicotinoid pesticides, the report makes a fair finding: this type of pesticide is problematic and there is a moratorium on three such pesticides. however, a general ban on the use of neonicotinoids is problematic, especially in the absence of an alternative solution for our farmers. i also voted against the paragraph on gmos which is not consistent with the french positions. if we ban the cultivation of gmos, we import them.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an important insight into the progress made in protecting biodiversity and the work still to be done to halt the disappearance of plant and animal species. agriculture and forestry have an important role to play in this roadmap. while biodiversity is under pressure globally, extensive agriculture must be preserved. the diversity of plant species and varieties traditionally grown by small and medium-sized farms and family farms is of crucial importance both to meet the different needs and uses of rural communities and to reduce the vulnerability of crops to adverse climatic conditions, pests and diseases. overall, the report stresses that the 2020 targets will not be met without a sustained and additional effort by member states, while highlighting the positive impact of the birds and habitats directives on nature degradation.
in writing. ‒ the protection of biodiversity naturally involves vital, human and ethical considerations. it is regrettable that this text reflects more an economic and financial approach to the subject. nevertheless, it is consensual and based on a pragmatic approach. this review shows that efforts to promote biodiversity have been modest, but it is desirable to take account of economic development in all environmental matters. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support any text in favour of biodiversity, despite its shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 2 february, i voted in favour of the mid-term report on the eu biodiversity strategy. the results show progress in many areas, but highlight the fact that eu nature legislation needs to be better applied by member states to achieve the european 2020 targets. more than three quarters of important natural habitats in the union are currently in an unsatisfactory state, and many species are threatened with extinction. it is also necessary to involve all local and regional actors in order to define a coherent biodiversity policy, which takes into account the activities of socioeconomic actors and the particularities of the territories. in particular, i thought it was essential to open the debate on large carnivores so that the european commission could take adaptation measures to preserve our livestock farms in mountain areas.
in writing. ‒ i support this text in favour of biodiversity which does not place too heavy constraints on the member states. i also agree with the frequent reference to the link between environmental protection and economic development. i would just like to point out the error of the approach which places the challenge of biodiversity on economic integration instead of considering it as a necessary human good. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mark demesmaeker on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. biodiversity is a wealth and a resource that we must protect. the european parliament has recognised the important contribution of the agricultural and forestry sectors to the preservation of this biodiversity. however, the implementation of the 2020 targets set by the european union in this area is lagging behind. member states must therefore make greater efforts while taking into account the specificities of local and regional socioeconomic actors and territories. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the biodiversity strategy. the overall text remains fairly consensual and does not impose too heavy requirements on the member states. the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, and this pragmatic approach is commendable. it is regrettable, however, that the issue of biodiversity is argued as a socioeconomic integration of the issue. the loss of biodiversity is then identified as a financial cost.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it seeks to protect biodiversity, in particular against pesticides, gmos and hydraulic fracturing. it also has the merit of leaving a wide margin of manoeuvre to the member states. however, it is regrettable that the three amendments of the enl group were rejected on the basis of anti-fn ideology, even though they were intended to restrict even further the use of certain products harmful to biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ a large majority of european citizens have recently expressed concern about the loss of biodiversity in europe. in 2015, more than half a million europeans asked the european commission to protect nature and ensure that existing directives are implemented. based on this finding, the report sets out a clear diagnosis of how to halt biodiversity loss, stressing that to achieve the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy, the current legislative framework will need to be fully implemented by member states, with additional dedicated monitoring and financial resources. the text deplores the fact that the outermost regions are excluded from current community legislation, whereas they contain unique reserves of species and ecosystems and a substantial part of the world and european biodiversity. it called on the commission to define a legislative framework adapted to the specificities of these regions and to create a sustainable financing mechanism for the protection of biodiversity in the octs and the overseas territories. environmental policies need strong political support. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this mid-term review, as its name suggests, takes stock of the union's biodiversity strategy. it noted that efforts had been limited and regretted that the flexibility granted to the member states had ultimately limited the proper application of the directives. we also regret that the issue of biodiversity is seen only from the financial perspective of socioeconomic integration. nevertheless, this text is consensual and has the immense advantage of not imposing too heavy requirements on the member states, which we support.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims at the full implementation of the birds and habitats directives and the preservation and restoration of ecosystems and ecosystem services. to this end, it proposes to promote the contributions of agriculture and forestry to the preservation and enhancement of biodiversity. the resolution also stresses the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the fight against invasive alien species. all this is done in order to halt the loss of biodiversity on a global scale. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change and to ensure that the eu's climate policy is not disrupted by climate change. it notes that 'no detailed data on the actual funding of nature conservation by member state' is available. i am voting for this resolution with no illusions about its effects.
in writing. ‒ i support this text in favour of biodiversity which does not place too heavy constraints on the member states. i also agree with the frequent reference to the need to balance environmental protection with economic development. i would just like to point out the error of the approach which places the challenge of biodiversity on economic integration instead of considering it as a necessary human good. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy considers that efforts have been limited and regrets that the flexibilities granted to member states may have limited the proper application of the relevant directives. the issue of biodiversity is more argued from its economic aspect, the loss of biodiversity is then identified as a financial cost. the vital aspect of the environment for man rooted in his space is obviously not defended in this text. the overall text, however, remains consensual and does not impose too heavy requirements on the member states. finally, the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, a praiseworthy pragmatic approach. we therefore support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy in europe. despite the interesting proposals contained therein, i could not support a text calling on member states to ban the experimentation of the exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons such as shale gas, in defiance of the principles of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of national authorities in the choice of their energy package.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy presents encouraging solutions and objectives, which is why i voted in favour of it. however, it also notes the continued deterioration of the environment and is pessimistic about the success of the 2020 environmental targets. the union and the member states must make the protection of biodiversity a political priority.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy considers that efforts have been modest. it is also regrettable that the issue of biodiversity is only argued by a socioeconomic integration of the issue, the loss of biodiversity is then identified only at a financial cost. the vital aspect of the environment for man or the respect for nature and animals for themselves are not prohibited in this text. the overall text, however, remains consensual and, above all, does not impose too heavy requirements on the member states. finally, the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, a praiseworthy pragmatic approach. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. the report stresses the need to continue efforts to halt biodiversity losses but also repeatedly stresses the need to recognise the specificities of the overseas territories in terms of biodiversity and to provide adequate funding. the report calls on the commission to set up a sustainable financing mechanism for the protection of biodiversity in the outermost regions and overseas countries and territories, following on from the best preparatory action. this is a very important point and i have been advocating this idea for several years in the european parliament: we need a specific instrument for the european overseas departments to protect our biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy gives us an opportunity to take stock of our recommendations. they shall be addressed to the commission and to the member states. it allows us to contribute to the evaluation of environmental legislation, in particular the habitats directive, which is currently being carried out. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls the importance of the eu's protection of biodiversity in the face of the multiple threats to it. let us not forget that it is the living organism that has enabled us to develop many medicines and that biomimicry is a source of innovation that is both original and indispensable. however, the legislation is not implemented in the same way across europe. in some countries, there is a strong temptation to sacrifice environmental policies for economic reasons or because of a lack of courage. france, which has so long delayed the adoption of a law on the protection of biodiversity, is one of europe's worst pupils. the notre-dame-des-landes airport project is a striking example of land use planning designed to the detriment of the site's biological wealth and its endangered species. in april 2014, thanks to the work of environmentalists, the european commission had not failed to send a letter of formal notice to the french state, concerned about the non-compliance with european legislation on the subject. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to promote the fight against organised crime. we will not accept that the commission proposes a downward revision of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy. progress in halting the degradation of biodiversity worldwide has so far been insufficient; only 23% of species and 16% of habitats can be considered in good condition. positive results were recorded for the common fisheries policy and the fight against invasive alien species, but the situation remains worrying, particularly in the fields of agriculture and forestry. the situation is clear: the current momentum will not allow the 2020 targets to be reached. so we have to make a lot more effort. a stronger political will is needed to make biodiversity a priority, involving as many actors as possible and giving a strong role to local and regional actors. we are calling for better enforcement of existing legislation, the integration of biodiversity into the common agricultural policy, the necessary measures to protect pollinators and the development of a trans-european network of green infrastructure (ten-g). finally, adequate funding and policy coherence are essential to the success of these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy 2020. the text takes stock of the situation and calls for further, substantial and continuous efforts to be made to achieve the objectives set for 2020. it is true that the eu is lagging far behind in implementing its objectives, especially as habitat degradation and destruction, due in particular to climate change and unsustainable consumption patterns, are the main causes of biodiversity loss in europe. to better respond to these challenges, it is first and foremost a question of better integrating all local and regional actors in order to develop a coherent biodiversity policy that takes into account territories and socioeconomic activities. the objectives are therefore to pursue the full implementation and enforcement of the nature directives, to develop a trans-european network of green infrastructure and, above all, to initiate the transition to a circular economy. finally, i would like to emphasize, as this report does, the contribution of the agricultural and forestry sectors to the improvement of biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy considers that efforts have been modest and, finally, regrets that the flexibilities granted to member states may have limited the proper application of the guidelines that cross this theme ( habitats , birds , ...). it is also regrettable that the issue of biodiversity is argued by a socioeconomic integration of the issue, the loss of biodiversity is then identified with a financial cost. the vital aspect of the environment for man rooted in his space is obviously not defended in this text. the overall text, however, remains consensual and does not impose too heavy requirements on the member states. finally, the importance of reconciling respect for the environment and economic development is often mentioned, a praiseworthy pragmatic approach. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ following the failure of the previous eu strategy against biodiversity loss by 2010, the commission adopted a new strategy in 2012 and the european parliament is assessing its implementation at mid-term. we all know that species are still disappearing at such a high rate that there is a fear of mass extinction of species all over the world, including in the eu. biodiversity is still under serious threat everywhere, particularly from human activities. the report put to the vote by the european parliament advocates opposing the review of the various nature directives, calls for the full integration of this biodiversity strategy into the cap, the evaluation of the greening of the cap and the strengthening of the natura 2000 network. i am more than reserved about other measures such as the 'natural capital financing mechanism', which is supposed to guarantee projects on biodiversity and which is mostly akin to green washing by which companies can redress their badge by financing only profitable ecological projects. i have nevertheless voted in favour of this report, which is certainly not ambitious but which nevertheless makes interesting and important proposals, not least of which is the reaffirmation of the application by the commission and the member states of the precautionary principle for gmos.
the minutes of the previous meeting are approved.
sir, we're recording this information.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of:- council and commission statements on the refugee emergency, external border control and the future of schengen (2016/2259 ((rsp)) - council and commission statements on compliance with the international principle of non-refoulement (2016/2535 ((rsp)) - council and commission statements on the financing of the refugee facility in turkey (2016/2525 ((rsp)) - council and commission statements on the resurgence of racist hatred and violence against refugees and migrants in europe (2016/2563 ((rsp)).
madam president, the causes of the influx of migrants are well known. first of all, disorganization, with the help of the west and the united states of america, of countries like iraq, syria and libya. secondly, the rhetoric of the european union and certain member states or political forces, which for ideological or political reasons are constantly calling for more migration to europe, is a rhetoric that is not heard, and mrs merkel's appeal has been heard. but mr pittella and mrs harms have just made some very moving speeches, except that if mr pittella and mrs harms go home and find migrants who have entered their homes unwittingly, i think they will call the police and lock their doors in double locks and shut their windows. it is also the laxity of the european union, because we always say - it is a purely verbal incantation - that those who have no right to be considered political refugees - and that is the vast majority of migrants, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know - must return to their country of origin. oh, how interesting! in my country, for example, france, it has been proved by one of our highest financial and judicial institutions, the court of auditors, that 95 per cent of those denied asylum, whose application has been carefully examined for months, years, with all sorts of levels of appeal, remain in france or, when they are returned to the border, for example, the franco-belgian border, they return the next day to the country from which they were allegedly expelled. the principle of non-refoulement is absurd when applied to countries that are safe. therefore, neither article 33 of the geneva convention nor article 19 of the european charter precludes the return of people from safe countries who come to us only for economic reasons.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, do you think that the migrants waited for mrs merkel's permission to leave the place where they could no longer live, subjected to terror, bombs and deprivation of liberty? do you think they waited for that authorization?
mr president, the european refugee facility in turkey is a fraud. the european union is going to pay 3 billion euros to turkey in the hope of settling the 2 million syrian refugees there. turkey does not, however, intend to comply with this agreement. the proof: president erdogan came to strasbourg in 2015 to challenge the union by criticizing european civilization and calling on the turks of france to refuse to integrate. the truth is that erdogan is willingly letting syrian migrants leave turkish ports for europe. he rejoices in our calamity, and he feeds the migratory wave that overwhelms us. the union is inherently weak because it is an off-the-books bureaucracy cut off from the soul of the european peoples. she'll lose her $3 billion without getting anything in return. the solution is to abolish the schengen agreement. each state must regain control of its borders to stop the flow of migration and treat turkey as an equal. if i take my country as an example, i would say that france will defend its interests much better when it is outside the schengen area, and even outside the european union.
mr vice-president, mr minister, we share the commission's commitment to the refugee crisis, whether it is to move towards a dignified and shared reception of asylum seekers, to improve our border management or to strengthen our cooperation instruments with our partners. all these devices are welcome. the question is the financing of these measures and therefore their sincerity. the agreement on the 2016 budget signed two months ago has exhausted most of the budgetary margins. the commission itself admits that we are now condemned to financial manipulations, and i quote: 'creative'. these creations do not meet any ordinary procedure, and the facility for turkey is an example of this. the union's budget is being strengthened, but without touching the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework. the heads of government can thus make it appear, with a rather hypocritical message, that the union is not being strengthened. the europe-haters in this house feed on these half-truths, these false appearances. mr president-in-office of the council, tell your colleagues to stop making europe feel ashamed. each council is given more responsibilities for the union, but what about the means of implementing them? we have an opportunity this year to seize it with the obligation to revise the multiannual financial framework. we can raise the union's budget to its responsibilities. since we have spoken this morning with commissioner moscovici about the important progress on taxation of multinationals, why not consider this tax at the level of the union? we would thus put an end to the sterile competition which is destroying our national tax systems and we would significantly reduce national contributions to the union budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the euphoria of the suicidal open door policy comes the cruel time of disillusionment. economic disillusionment first: those who thought that men were merely interchangeable economic actors, unconnected with their culture, are beginning to realize their mistake. these german employers who saw illegal immigrants as the new economic miracle now know that the majority of these young men will not be able to integrate into the german market and that 80% of them have neither the level nor the training of a german worker. cultural delusions too: the singers of multiculturalism take reality in the face like a boomerang. rapes are on the rise in europe, assaults in public swimming pools, crime of all kinds, not to mention the infiltration of terrorists. let us thank the nations of central and eastern europe for their courage in facing reality, for defending our european borders, and let us stop thinking that turning the page on schengen is killing the european idea. the real europe can only be realistic, it can only be a deep cooperation between sovereign nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, your european operation is marked by failure. firstly, the failure of schengen and the return of national borders, since many countries have re-established borders at the slightest problem, which proves that the border is a central element of state policy. then there is the human tragedy: a million migrants have arrived, three million are expected, 3,800 have died in the mediterranean, 10,000 miners are missing, explosive situations such as those in calais, france, or cologne. it is also noted that 62% of these migrants are economic migrants and not refugees. then there is the weakness of europe in relation to turkey, a country which abuses human rights, which is playing games with the european union on the one hand and the islamic state group on the other, and which receives 3 billion euros in aid without any control. finally, the european cacophony. good feelings do not replace serious acts and policy failures, even the court of auditors has questioned the costly and totally ineffective programmes of your immigration policies. so we must give the people a voice again. democracy is the government of the people, by the people, for the people.
mr president, i would like to say to the european institutions, the council and the commission, that the message they sent a few days ago, a message of distrust of greece and a hypothetical quarantine of that country, was not a message of good policy, nor a well-inspired message. of course, since you want to keep schengen - we all want it - let us consider the greek border as the european border. let's not try to play games and alienate each other. i was in lesbos on saturday and sunday. i have seen the work of the greek coastguards and border guards. i have seen greek ships, more greek ships from elsewhere than frontex ships on the ground. i saw the work they did when they went to collect the refugees at sea. i visited the reception and registration centre on lesbos, which is one of the main access islands to the european union. there were 700 arrivals in january last year, compared with 33,000 in january this year. these arrivals were managed by the greeks, with little help from frontex, whose support should of course be strengthened. migrants are monitored, recorded and photographed. the job is done. so let's really be supportive of each other and then make decisions. the first of the decisions i ask you to take is to demand that turkey stop the trafficking of criminals and criminal smugglers. 3,000 euros per adult, 1,000 euros per child and half price in case of storm, plus life jackets which are usually fake life jackets. this would be a practical, necessary and vital action by the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, thank you for that question, mr president. i have always been opposed to turkey's membership of the european union. i think it would be a mistake for us to think of a european union of several circles, but i do not want turkey to be part of our european union. i also think that we should have a little more muscle in our relations with turkey, a little more political will and political courage at home, and dare to say to them that yes, we demand that they stop the activities of traffickers and criminals before we even talk to them. i doubt that we can give tomorrow 3 billion to turkey, which we do not have, and that this amount is enough to prevent the arrival of migrants and refugees. i have a serious doubt about that.
mr president, yet another debate, yet another failure. worse, things are getting worse. no, the european response is not up to the humanitarian crisis that is playing out on our borders. less than 0.5 percent of the world's refugees threaten the richest area in the world. four hundred people were welcomed out of the 160,000 announced. yes, the attitude of the member states is a disgrace! greece is under attack, but where is the solidarity with it? this country, eight times less populated than germany, is one of the poorest countries in the european union. and we know why. however, no one seems to be wondering about the sudden evolution of the flow of refugees in eastern europe in early 2015. yes, turkey has a responsibility in this matter, and yes, it is time to ask questions. yes, it is time to ask questions about the use of european union funds. the court of auditors has published a report, and we must be able to examine it. finally, what is the follow-up to the europol report on the disappearance of 10,000 children from the soil of the european union?
mr president, the four themes of this debate are a good summary of the moral bankruptcy of the european union, which finds nothing wrong with its member states violating fundamental rights and ignoring european texts. a union where we pretend to debate with denmark, which shamefully legislates on the confiscation of the property of migrants, where we welcome orban, who builds walls and gives all rights to the army, where the dutch presidency plans to make refugee exchanges with a country which we know does not respect the fundamental rights of refugees, where we let the extreme right-wing parties make the most criminal proposals, where we are preparing to criminalise citizens and humanitarians when they save refugees from certain death. a european union in which, at the same time, greece and the greeks are threatened, who, with their limited means, are trying to honour european values, in which germany is vilified for showing solidarity, in which every proposal for a common solution put forward by the commission is ignored, in which the european parliament's appeals are ignored. there is no other word for what is happening in europe today. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, france, which has to take its share of refugees, has so far, i believe, only taken in 62 of the 160 000 people who were to be distributed throughout the european union. norway, which took its share, had promised to take in 10,000 refugees. it has reduced this quota to 7 000 and has just repatriated 29 syrians left in murmansk in -28°c.
madam president, the european union's inability to cope with the great migration crisis that is shaking europe is evident. you talk about the urgent need for refugees, external border controls and the future of schengen, but the urgent need today is to put an end to the mass arrival of illegal immigrants, the vast majority of whom are coming to europe for economic reasons, and to re-establish controls at national borders in order to apprehend and deport foreigners whose asylum applications have been rejected. the urgent need is to free ourselves from european jurisprudence which prevents the expulsion of foreigners who refuse to respect our customs and traditions. the urgent need is not to make illusory concessions, or to give billions of euros to turkey to keep immigrants, but to review our relations with this country, which supports jihadists in syria and libya. you mention the increase in violence and incitement to hatred against refugees and migrants in europe, while women have recently been raped and sexually assaulted by asylum seekers in several european cities, while christian refugees are being violently attacked and even murdered by other refugees because of their religion. i can only be appalled that you persist in this ideological blindness.
madam president, stop the immigrant quota policy, which sends a disastrous message of encouraging illegal immigration. i went to refugee camps in lebanon and jordan. i've been checking on them. they watch the news on old tv sets, thinking they'll be welcomed, fed, housed, cared for in europe. i spoke to men and women who were desperate to see the international community's inertia in the face of the crisis in syria and libya. that's where the trouble is. forced to live in difficult conditions, some preferred to attempt the crossing of the mediterranean, risking their lives. reality is not the dream you let them hope for. the picture of little aylan has moved the world. how many children lost their lives last week at sea, in the general indifference? europe is overwhelmed, unable to cope with the massive wave of migrants it has itself encouraged and threatened by the infiltration of terrorists among migrants. some people invoke the great principles of europe, while we are unable to ensure real security for our peoples, unable to ensure the reception and integration of so many migrants, unable to send back illegals who are deviating from the asylum channels. we pay a heavy price for it. schengen is under threat, our external borders are flooded, the jungle of calais has become the biggest slum in europe and the shame of france. the european ideal is not to encourage the uprooting of populations. our financial aid must be properly targeted to be effective, to lebanon, to jordan, to humanitarian organizations, to keep migrants in their cultural melting pot. if you do not want our european peoples to turn to populism, then stop promoting a policy that destabilises and worries them.
madam president, we have just heard the president of the socialist group say, with a hint of foam on his lips, that the problem facing europe in these times of the migration catastrophe is the virus of fear that will spread among europeans. a speech applauded by the epp chairman, ms merkel's spokesman. mr pittella should spare his abundant saliva, spare his fragile nerves and welcome some of these so-called refugees into his home. you claim to defend a community of values at the expense of the vital interests of our peoples, but your values are abstract and disembodied, in the service of dangerous and utopian ideologies. no, your values are not our values, your priorities are not our priorities, because well-ordered charity begins with oneself, that is, with his own. but you want to help the illegal immigrants before our citizens, always others before ours and of course yourself before everyone! for it is not you who are paying the consequences of your foolish decisions, but our humblest and most fragile compatriots. when i saw that this debate was about violence against migrants and not about violence committed by them, from cologne to calais, i thought at first that there was a loophole. but no, you really dare everything, and that's what we know you for!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how difficult it is to wake up! throughout europe, the immigration ideology you have promoted has exploded. everywhere, the reality has been reiterated: bombings, mass rapes, anti-semitic attacks and other beatings of christians are the result of your blindness. but instead of listening to the patriotic movements in europe, which had predicted the debacle, you still refuse to admit your wrongdoing and are desperately looking for palliatives. however, your remedies will only make the problem worse, because it is irresponsible to finance turkey, which is playing a dirty game with the islamic state group, because it is criminal to refuse to send back migrants en masse, because not to take responsibility for the rising tensions between migrants and local populations, which are being pushed to the brink by acts of barbarism, is cowardly and despicable. in the name of the european people, mr juncker, stop the damage and listen to us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two and a half million refugees, mainly syrians, are officially hosted on turkish soil. we cannot remain indifferent to this, especially since these migrants are destined sooner or later to return to their own country or to go to a country in the union. turkey is in fact situated in a geostrategically important area and we must be aware of this. this situation creates obligations for turkey itself, but also for the european union. the idea that the union is helping turkey is a perfectly intelligent idea, which i support, but it must be implemented in a transparent way. who pays for these benefits? the states, the union budget or both? who is actually receiving this help? turkish government or ngos? and who controls the use of these funds? these are questions that must be answered. everything must be done to ensure that turkey can welcome refugees on its soil in a dignified manner.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we are gathered here tonight in this chamber of the parliament in strasbourg to debate once again the crucial issue of equality between men and women, in favour of an oral question that a number of political groups wanted to address to the european commission and which pointed the finger and stigmatised the fact that the commission did not publish a document on a certain type of status, a communication on a strategic commitment but only a working document which specifies its roadmap and lists its commitments and lines of action for the period 2015-2019. i am very frank, both personally and on behalf of the epp group, that i am not very happy with the semantic quarrels and debates - excuse me, i do not want to offend anyone - on the question of the status and form of this or that document. what counts is the political will, the commitment, the intensity with which a number of areas of action are identified, as well as the processes, methods and methodology. in this context, the methodology, the areas of action and the commitments published by the european commission, by commissioner jourová, in the working document correspond exactly to the priorities and concerns of the epp group. we want a concrete, pragmatic, effective, operational approach, through quantifiable, measurable objectives, evaluation procedures, we want to emphasize the need to properly transpose, to properly implement existing legislation before considering possible new legislative proposals. in short, we want to be useful, practical, pragmatic and focus on what we can do usefully as the european parliament, as members of the committee on women's rights, as a european institution, to stimulate the member states and put pressure on them to assume their responsibilities. once again, the epp group has clearly underlined this intensity and political will in its motion for a resolution.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions. it was really important to hear their opinions, proposals and suggestions. i would like to reiterate once again that the priorities of the strategy for equality between women and men for 2010-2015 remain valid. we need enforcement and implementation and we need a real action plan and actions on the ground. we know that all member states must have their own national action plans and programmes. they must have their instruments, because we all agree that gender equality needs to be implemented in all political sectors. we as commissioners – myself, tibor navracsics and maria javorova, for instance – must understand gender equality in our portfolios, move in this direction and to see how to implement our priorities. why are we proposing the strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019? because it is a reference framework for increasing efforts to promote gender equality at all levels – at european, national, regional and local level. we need a coordination mechanism and better cooperation between member states so as to encourage member states to improve their instruments. we repeat once again that we have 30 key actions to be implemented in each of the five priority areas identified, as well as objectives and timelines for these actions together with the responsibilities of the commission services. we need target benchmarks, timelines and the possibility to improve gender equality policies in a real way. there must be a little more governance to see how to implement those budgets. we have seen a great many strategies expire, but looking at implementation enforcement reveals a big gap between kind words and the real-life implementation of these strategies. i would like to thank you very much indeed. we are ready to cooperate and exchange our views and we are ready to continue in our debates. from the commission side we need to be very active in improving gender equality.
author. madam president, commissioner, as soon as you were sworn in, i would say as commissioner for health, the green group informed you that one of the priority issues would be the problem of endocrine disruptors. that was 2014, and now it's 2016, and you haven't done anything. it took the intervention of the swedish minister for health, the european parliament and the member states to bring the matter before the court of justice of the european union, which condemned you for inaction, without any reservations. this condemnation of 16 september explicitly states that the commission does not respect the law and that it has even violated the law of the european union. moreover, when you are asked again about this, you are backing an economic impact study, whereas the court's judgment is clear that this impact study is not necessary, and you are also exceeding your rights. despite this judgment, you persevere to continue this study. how can we work together, commissioner, if the commission does not respect european rights, law and treaties? what confidence can we have in each other? we therefore ask you to take action in the coming months, and very quickly, to define these scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors. you already have them in your drawers, as my colleague mr gerbrandy said, because the directorate-general for the environment has already taken them. so, as of tomorrow, you can put these scientific criteria out. act, commissioner, and act very quickly.
madam president, commissioner, it is a great shame that the european commission is being condemned on such a serious issue as endocrine disruptors, when the european parliament has been sounding the alarm for a very long time. we are of course in favour of impact studies, but they should have been carried out much earlier and we should have had them by now. we are indeed calling for the criteria for endocrine disruptors to be defined on the basis of genuinely scientific studies. we have to ask ourselves: when does it become a danger to human health? we need to answer all these questions. the industry will, of course, have to find other solutions, and one can imagine that the delay is due to pressure from a few lobbyists, and that is regrettable. the european commission, which is talking about better legislation, has a real subject today on which it should bring real added value in terms of public health and propose european legislation.
madam president, we are dealing with a political scandal here. the court of justice's ruling calls for a swift response, since this is not a technical problem but a public health problem. today europeans are dying of cancer because of pesticides, for example, which are one of the endocrine disruptors. there are also packaging, toys for children, cash registers containing these substances. it is therefore a matter of defending the health of europeans and ensuring that cancers, deformities and other consequences for our health can be avoided. of course, this is also a serious financial problem. that said, endocrine disruptors represent a cost equivalent to almost 1.3% of our european gross domestic product. now that the european court of justice has delivered its judgment, it is no longer the time, commissioner, to tell us that there will be a procedure with an impact assessment. no, as several speakers have pointed out, you must now define criteria which will enable us to be effectively protected.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr buşoi, you say: 'we must eliminate endocrine disruptors as much as possible, because they are a problem'. but the problem with endocrine disruptors is that there is no dose, there is no threshold. at a very low level, there can be a greater effect than at a high level. that's why we really need to define them so they can be removed. it is not a question of trying to eliminate them as much as possible. as soon as there are some, we must be able to remove them or, if we do not have substitute molecules, we must tell the industry that it has two years to find a solution.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, just a word to say that, regarding the debate earlier, we do not question your honesty. we are only questioning the need to separate the impact study from the criteria. what i would like to say in relation to clinical trials is that, in fact, on 17 january last, one person died during a clinical trial organised by the biotrial laboratory in rennes, and five other people have significant neurological problems. i would also like to send all my thoughts to the families who have been affected. the problem with this death is that we are faced with the lack of transparency and opacity of the laboratories that test their molecules, in this case a portuguese laboratory called bial. we obtained the protocol of the clinical trial in question, which was published by the french national agency for the safety of medicines and health products on 22 january. however, we were unable to obtain two dossiers: the dossiers for the experimental drug, which indicate the pharmacological effects of the drug being tested, and the dossiers for preclinical trials on animals, in particular on chimpanzees. the agency did not publish them, as it was not able to obtain them. the portuguese lab is entrenched behind trade secrets. the commission and you, commissioner, have the power to put pressure on the european medicines agency, which i contacted and which informed me that it would delay the publication of this database until 2018, which answers mrs ries' question. so this is very important. you have the power to push the ema to quickly set up this database so that we can access these clinical trials.
madam president, it is true that the death of a healthy volunteer in a phase 1 clinical trial is obviously a tragic accident and we send all our thoughts, not only to his family but also to the families of those hospitalized. i expect a lot from the various reports that the french ministry of health has commissioned. i hope they will shed some light on the circumstances of this tragedy. i wondered whether it was appropriate to have this debate now, when we have only very partial information on this case and the investigations are still ongoing. above all, we must avoid playing the guessing game that is already being played in the media. we don't know where the error is. in the protocol? at the clinical trial site? in the sample contents? the dose of the chemical? we can imagine anything, and we need transparency. the point to remember is that clinical trials are absolutely necessary to hope to bring innovative medicines to market that will benefit patients and that accidents like this, fortunately, remain very rare. fortunately, as the commissioner has reminded us, we have a new regulation which must provide for very strong transparency requirements, particularly as regards information on phase 1 trials and their publicity. this regulation must be implemented as soon as possible. it is a top priority, it is important, and that is why i call on the commission and the european medicines agency to monitor the development of this matter.
madam president, commissioner, the tragedy of rennes raises a number of questions for us. first of all, it is alarming that the french health authorities were not informed until four days after the trial was stopped by the company which carried it out on behalf of the portuguese laboratory. i believe that information on the trial protocols should be made available to the public, who have a right to know all the effects of the medicines they are prescribed. in 2014, when the clinical data regulation was adopted, we succeeded in advancing transparency by ensuring that clinical trial reports are not considered commercially confidential once the medicinal product has been granted marketing authorisation. however, statements from pharmaceutical companies, as well as the european medicines agency, converge to reduce the scope of this regulation, which will come into force in may 2016, in order to strengthen a certain industrial protectionism. the european medicines agency has a procedure that allows companies to censor their clinical trial reports before they are posted online and imposes various restrictions that render these reports unusable for analysis or research purposes. full publicity of clinical trial data is the condition for reassuring european citizens. finally, following the tragedy in rennes and in the context of this regulation, which, i remind you, will come into force at the end of may 2016, we will have to be particularly attentive to certain clinical trials involving medicines used outside the indications, since they may be considered as low-level intervention trials, that is to say less well supervised. there is a risk of abuse and new health scandals. i ask the commission and the european medicines agency to be attentive to these practices. the mediator scandal was due to unauthorized use.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the british people are fed up with the european union and most of them seem to want to get out of the eu. they have a longing for their sovereignty, that is, for their ability to deal with the problems, the problems that arise for them in a national context, with their own particular goals, their own thoughts and their own culture, whether it be for immigration, the economy or any other issue. mr verhofstadt, whose departure was not noted - i see that when i leave the house it makes a statement, but it does not seem to be the case for mr verhofstadt - said that britain, if it left, would be a geopolitical dwarf. it must stop looking at itself in a distorting mirror, because it is the european union, which is a geopolitical dwarf, which has no say and is not respected in any of the great problems of this world, no great balance and no great conflict. it has played no role at all, to the point that we are regularly humiliated by mr obama, who calls mr cameron to inform him of the order to remain in the european union or who speaks after the november attacks before the president of the french republic to inform the european union of the obligation to maintain the insane policy of welcoming migrants. the british desire to head for the exit door is understandable, since the european union is being rocked by recurrent and increasingly serious crises: the crisis of the single currency created by the european elites, the euro that has turned into a general economic and social crisis throughout the european union, the immigration crisis, with millions of people marching to join a european union without borders, open to all winds and dislocated. the european union is collapsing under the weight of its own contradictions. the pseudo-negotiation that has opened up is a play and i think that no one is fooled. despite this charade to make the british believe that an improvement in the european union could be achieved and thus to keep them in the structure, you must admit that for years you have been in a corner of the ring. that's the reality, you're forced to repair a drifting ship that's taking in water from all sides. you are on the defensive, your actions are based on lies, pressure, blackmail, threats, the violation of the will of the people expressed in a referendum. it's a clear sign of your weakness. today you are taking a first step backwards and that alone is something to be happy about. you won't be able to buy time indefinitely. the day is coming soon when this big, rotten ship will sink and the lifeboats of the nations will finally be able to bring the peoples to safety. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i am afraid, unfortunately, that a number of migrants are crammed into calais precisely because britain has a border and we do not. if we all had internal borders, if we were not in this madness of schengen, the people who are cramming into the slums around our cities or around the departure points to reach britain would most likely be at home today. that means that each country must recover its borders and that britain must not give up its own; this is, in my opinion, a false good idea.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr henkel, you have mentioned the prospect of britain leaving the european union, which would mean the end of the european union, and you have made subsidiarity your theme. do you not think that a subsidiary europe is impossible as long as we keep the brussels commission? are you for or against a europe of nations?
mr president, the referendum on the united kingdom's membership of europe should be an opportunity to say openly what the european project is, our european ideal. to regain confidence in the capabilities of our continent is an opportunity to remind ourselves that there is only one europe, with its history, its values, its requirements, its free movement, its single currency, its internal market and schengen. should we accept that one country imposes its pace and demands on the rest of the continent? it is important, yes, that the united kingdom remains in the european union. in such an unstable world, division is weakening, and this is the aim of those who want to tear europe apart. i would remind you that every citizen who works, who pays his taxes, has the right to social protection, regardless of his origin, because he contributes to the wealth of this country. finally, it is inconceivable to weaken the role of the european parliament, which certainly has no reason to blush in the face of national parliaments. the opposite would probably be more true. in a europe traumatised by the events in paris, cologne and calais, we must respond to the frustrations and fears of public opinion, to those who are tempted to see the fight against europe and populism as a way out of their woes. the migration crisis is thus symptomatic of the situation europe is facing today. the european commission and parliament have reacted quickly, but the member states are slow to implement the decisions taken several months ago to strengthen the external borders. we must act, act, that is the urgency!
mr president, i would like to make two specific proposals. the first concerns refugees. you announced several weeks ago that we were going to give money to turkey - money which i believe we do not have. i ask you one thing: before you pay any money, demand that turkey stop the criminal trafficking, i say criminal trafficking, which is taking place to bring syrian refugees to europe, especially to the greek islands. this is the first thing to do and, at the same time - and this will be our responsibility - increase our capacity to take into account asylum applications where the refugees are, that is to say in the camps in jordan, lebanon or turkey. here's my first proposal. my second proposal concerns britain. i don't think so, but it's personal to small arrangements between friends. i don't think they'll be profitable to david cameron, but that's another story. rather than calling into question the social rights of workers, not foreigners but europeans, working in britain, i would ask you to look again at the question of the posting of foreign workers. this would be beneficial for the whole of the european union.
in writing. it took the threat of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the union to finally make concrete proposals on a new way of understanding the place of the member states in the european institutional architecture. but we know that nothing has been done yet and the road ahead is complex and uncertain, whether it is the approval of the 27 partners or the result of the referendum. it is clear that without our british friends the union would be unbalanced and deprived of part of its identity. it would be an indelible stain on his credibility and the future of the european project. i am pleased that compromise proposals are being put on the table and are giving rise to a debate on ideas for a union that is more political, more respectful of the interests of its members and better adapted to the challenges of our time. it is a first step towards modernising the european edifice, but it is also a recognition of the need to make the union more efficient, more flexible and more resolutely focused on finding solutions to the problems that concern our citizens. i hope that our british friends will renew their commitment to a reformed, responsible and operational european union. thank you.
in writing. no eu institution should have accepted david cameron's blackmail. because whatever the outcome of the referendum, its aim is to break our community destiny. and if a british exit would have serious consequences for the union, it would have just as serious consequences for the united kingdom. with a gun to the council's head, david cameron has secured a deal. in addition to the fact that it does not guarantee the united kingdom's continued membership of the union, since the prime minister has authorized his government to campaign for 'out', it seeks to undermine the community's construction. on the one hand, the british government has been assured that the market is superior to the europeans. on the other hand, with the red card mechanism, cameron is telling us that he wants to put an end to european integration. the european union must be able to take action to combat this scourge. last but not least, all this should be written into the treaties. i'll oppose it. we must chart a real path: that of federalism against intergovernmentalism, that of social rights against the market and, above all, that of solidarity against national selfishness.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard and anti-circumvention clause for agricultural products in the eu-moldova association agreement. these clauses apply where the european branch is affected and not the national branches of the member states which are not protected. moreover, the changes made by this text are minor; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendment. finally, the adjustment of customs duties to deal with the problem of large imports is too small to be effective.
in writing. ‒ the eu-moldova association agreement includes an 'anti-circumvention mechanism' and a 'safeguard clause'. thus, if there is an unforeseen and significant increase in imports with serious detriment to the european industry, the clause allows for a suspension of any further reduction in customs tariffs on the product concerned or their replacement by the most favoured nation customs duty. we can only welcome such a reservation in regard to free trade. unfortunately, the most favoured nation clause is still far from sufficient. moreover, it is clear that this arrangement, more cosmetic than practical, is never used. voting in favour of this text would therefore be to endorse a protection policy which is too minimalist. that is why i, together with my colleagues from the national front, have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it will facilitate the monitoring of the implementation of a common trade policy between the eu and moldova in the interests of transparency and the reduction of corruption.
in writing. ‒ agricultural products imported from moldova are mainly oilseeds, fresh nuts, apple juice, wines and cereals. the association agreement with moldova contains a safeguard clause: if there is an unforeseen and significant increase in imports with serious detriment to the 'european production' branch, the clause allows for a suspension of any further reduction of customs tariffs for the product concerned or their replacement by the most favoured nation customs duty. there is also an anti-circumvention clause: when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products exceeds a ceiling with a doubt about their origins, the clause allows the preferential customs duty to be replaced by the most favoured nation (mfn) customs duty. these clauses are similar to those already in place in many free trade agreements. these clauses can only be applied where the 'european industry' as a whole is affected: the branches of production in each state are therefore not protected. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism for the eu-moldova association agreement. the clauses of this agreement apply when it is a european branch and not a national branch, which means that the productions of each state are not protected. the objective of placing flat tariffs on the npf rate is clearly too low for a real resolution on imports. in reality, the agreement is only intended to facilitate adjustment, not to prevent it. the amended text does not in any way enrich the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism of the eu-moldova association agreement. in view of their reaction, the clauses of this agreement have no protectionist ambition. the changes are very minor and do not improve the text in any way, which is why i shall abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns a text amended by the european parliament on the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism for agricultural products in the eu-moldova association agreement, a text which provides almost nothing on the substance. these clauses are very unprotective as they are worded. the changes are very minor and do not improve the text. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to clarify and amend the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing the suspension of the tariff preferences granted to moldova. these clauses provide that if a certain volume of imports, particularly of agricultural products, is exceeded and this threatens or causes serious injury to a european industry, the union may suspend any further reduction in customs tariffs and replace preferential customs duties with most-favoured-nation customs duties. although well-intentioned, these clauses remain ineffective in that domestic industries remain vulnerable as long as there is no major danger to the european industry. moreover, the measures mentioned above are clearly not very effective. finally, the amendments to the text are absolutely insignificant. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to implement the safeguard clause in the eu-moldova association agreement, allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences granted to moldova. this instrument, which is provided for in the union's association agreements with third countries, is designed to safeguard the interests of european companies when preferences granted to third countries lead to a significant and unexpected increase in imports, to the detriment of european production. the suspension is for a maximum of six months. i have voted in favour of this report because i believe that the policy of development aid to third countries in the european union must not be at the expense of the interests of our economy, particularly agriculture.
in writing. i supported the integration into eu law of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism provided for in the eu-moldova association agreement. it is important to be able to temporarily suspend the application of preferences in the event that they cause serious economic damage to european producers.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union and moldova is an important instrument for strengthening trade links, promoting respect for human rights and good governance in moldova. as such, it must be seen as an opportunity for the moldovans and the europeans. the trade side of this agreement must be beneficial to the economies of both parties but also include safety nets for products deemed sensitive. the establishment of the anti-circumvention mechanism will therefore make it possible to suspend, as far as necessary, the tariff preferences on certain agricultural products in the event of an unjustified increase in imports from moldova. it is also a means of avoiding fraudulent use of the rules of origin, such as the transit of products from neighbouring countries through moldova in order to benefit from european preferences.
in writing. ‒ the amended text does not improve the functioning of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism of the eu-moldova association agreement. these arrangements do not apply where a national branch is affected, but only to protect the european branch. the alignment of customs duties on the most favoured country will not solve the problem of excessive imports. similarly, the customs duty provided for in the anti-circumvention clause is not a sufficient solution. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because these circumvention measures are not realistic and are ineffective.
in writing. ‒ the eu-moldova association agreement includes an anti-circumvention mechanism and a safeguard clause. thus, if there is an unforeseen and significant increase in imports with serious detriment to the european industry, the clause allows for a suspension of any further reduction in customs tariffs on the product concerned or their replacement by the most favoured nation customs duty. it is quite positive that such a reservation exists in respect of free trade. however, the most favoured nation clause is not a significant protection. moreover, it is noted that this arrangement, more cosmetic than practical, is never used. voting in favour of this text would be to endorse a protection policy which is too minimalist. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague helmut scholz on the proposal for a regulation on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and moldova. the safeguard clause allows trade preferences to be temporarily suspended if a significant increase in imports causes damage to european industry. this text is necessary for the application of the clauses contained in the union's association agreement with moldova, which i supported. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which validates the proposal to create two protection mechanisms under the association agreement signed between the union and moldova. these mechanisms will make it possible to terminate the preferential clauses signed with moldova in cases where the import of moldovan products would endanger a european production chain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism in the framework of the eu-moldova association agreement. the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism of the eu-moldova association agreement. these clauses are very unprotective as they are written. these clauses apply when the european branch is affected and not any national branch. the changes are very minor and do not improve the text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it does not bring anything interesting to the association agreement.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this safeguard clause and anti-circumvention mechanism are an integral part of the eu-moldova association agreement currently in place. this clause allows for a suspension of any further reduction in the customs tariffs of a product in the event of an unexpected and significant increase in imports with serious detriment to the european industry. the anti-circumvention mechanism allows, when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products exceeds a certain stage with a doubt about their origins, to replace the preferential customs duty with the most favoured nation customs duty. the amendment does not add anything to the substance of this safeguard clause or the anti-circumvention mechanism. the text is therefore of no interest and that is why we prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ on 27 june 2014, following a five-year negotiation process, the european union and the republic of moldova signed an association agreement. the latter has since been applied provisionally but remains incomplete in two essential respects: the anti-circumvention mechanism and the safeguard clause. the anti-circumvention instruments allow for the temporary suspension of preferential duties for certain products provided for in the agreement when the maximum import volumes are reached. more protective, safeguard clauses allow the suspension of trade preferences for a product if it is imported into the union in such increased quantities that it causes or threatens to cause serious injury to union producers of similar products. the european parliament was consulted to approve the introduction of these two schemes. without expressing an opinion on the political and strategic merits of an association agreement with moldova, whose political landscape is fragmented, i supported the introduction of such instruments, already present in a number of agreements concluded by the union, in order to preserve the balance of the european market. more generally, however, i regret that the commission makes only very limited use of the safeguard measures provided for in trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ the union has had an association agreement with moldova for almost two years. what was the result? the country's economic destabilisation, particularly in its trade relations with russia and its customs union, reinforced by neoliberal measures demanded by the eu and the imf. on 21 january, the moldovan population demonstrated against the 10th pro-european government, an oligarchy which is mysteriously disappearing 15% of gdp without the union, supposedly concerned with the fight against corruption, finding anything to say. the regulation put to the vote is intended to protect the union (or moldovan) industry in the event of a large and unexpected increase in imports causing 'serious damage'. a way of avoiding the free trade agreement which, in fact, can never be invoked, apart from its complexity, because both parties must agree to any reintroduction of customs duties. neoliberal policies, enlargement of the union and economic annexation of its neighbours, support for corrupt elites, escalation of tensions against russia: all these reasons to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the eu-moldova association agreement includes an anti-circumvention mechanism and a safeguard clause. if there is an unforeseen and significant increase in imports with serious detriment to the european industry, the clause thus allows for a suspension of any further reduction in customs tariffs on the product concerned or their replacement by the most favoured nation customs duty. i think it is good that there is such a reservation about free trade. the most favoured nation clause is not a major protection. i also note that this provision is never used. i would not like to endorse a protection policy which is too minimalist by voting for this text. so i refrained.
in writing. this vote concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. this text contains a safeguard clause which allows for a suspension of any further reduction in customs tariffs on the product concerned or their replacement by the most favoured nation tariff if there is an unforeseen and significant increase in imports with serious detriment to the european industry. however, these clauses, as they are written, are very unprotective and the amendments made do little to change the substance. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and moldova. the agreement provides for restrictive measures in the event of imports of products in such quantities as to cause or threaten to cause injury to union producers of similar or directly competing products. i have approved this text which aims to protect the european economy and jobs.
in writing. ‒ the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism in the framework of eu-moldova cooperation are designed to protect european industry in the event of a massive increase in imports to moldova. this measure, which is necessary to ensure the safety of european producers, should be supported. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament legislative resolution of 3 february 2016 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. this regulation should provide for the possibility of suspending the preferential duties for a period of up to six months when imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products reach the annual import volumes defined.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with moldova, signed on 24 june 2014, is applied provisionally as from 1 september 2014. the agreement contains in particular a bilateral safeguard clause which allows the application of preferences to be temporarily suspended in the event of an unforeseen and significant increase in imports causing economic damage to the domestic industry of the importing party. it also provides for an 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which allows the reintroduction of the most-favoured-nation (mfn) rate of customs duty when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceeds a certain ceiling without a valid justification of their exact origin. i supported this report, which concerns the commission's proposal for a regulation to create the legal instrument allowing the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism provided for in the agreement already concluded with moldova. the report states that the european union is responsible for consulting the moldovan authorities before a definitive safeguard measure is imposed and also asks the commission to provide information on the safeguard clause in its annual report.
in writing. ‒ the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the safeguard and anti-circumvention clause in the eu-moldova association agreement. these clauses are very unprotective and the changes made are very minor and do not improve the text. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the anti-circumvention clause for agricultural products in the eu-georgia association agreement. these clauses apply where the european branch is affected and not the national branches of the member states which are not protected. moreover, the amendments made through this text are minor and do not protect european agriculture in the event of a problem with the agreement. in addition, the planned adjustment of customs duties to deal with the problem of large imports of products with doubt about their origin is too small to be effective.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the anti-circumvention mechanism of the eu-georgia association agreement. it provides that in the event of serious trade damage to the european union, the union may suspend free trade as defined in the association agreement and revert to the most favoured nation (mfn) clause. but the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the clauses to protect european agriculture in the event of problems following the eu-georgia association agreement. that clause is very unprotective as it stands. voting in favour of this text would be tantamount to endorsing a protection policy which is far too minimalist compared to what we advocate. hence my choice to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it will help to improve parliamentary scrutiny of the commission's implementation of the common commercial policy and to improve its transparency.
in writing. ‒ the products covered by the anti-circumvention clause are beef, pig and sheep meat, poultry meat, dairy products, eggs, mushrooms, cereals, sugar, maize and cigarettes. the association agreement with georgia contains an anti-circumvention clause: when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products exceeds a ceiling with a doubt about their origins, the clause allows the preferential customs duty to be replaced by the most favoured nation (mfn) customs duty. the anti-circumvention clause is applied after an investigation for a respective period of six months on the listed products. apart from the fact that the european commission alone can decide whether or not to activate the safeguard clause, it is the 'european branch' as a whole that is concerned and not this or that branch of a particular state. and the maximum alignment of customs duties on the gnp rate is clearly not sufficient to overcome the problem of over-importation. that's why i abstained.
in writing. the report, which calls for an anti-circumvention clause on trade between the eu and georgia, provides for the possibility of reintroducing the most favoured nation tariff rate in cases where imports of certain agricultural products (beef, pork and sheep, cereals, sugar, etc.) from georgia exceed a certain threshold without any justification of their origin. these clauses are similar to those already implemented in many free trade agreements. it is regrettable that these clauses apply only where the european branch is concerned and not in the case of a national branch. the objectives of aligning customs duties as closely as possible on the most favoured nation rate are clearly too weak to overcome the problems of overimportation. in this case, the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the clauses to protect european agriculture in the event of problems arising from the eu-georgia association agreement. in its present form, this clause provides very little protection. finally, the changes made are very minor and do not improve the text. i therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the clauses to protect european agriculture in the event of problems following the eu-georgia association agreement. that clause is very unprotective as it stands. the changes are very minor and do not improve the text. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to clarify and amend the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing the suspension of the tariff preferences granted to georgia. these clauses provide that if a certain volume of imports, particularly of agricultural products, is exceeded and this threatens or causes serious injury to a european industry, the union may suspend any further reduction in customs tariffs and replace preferential customs duties with most-favoured-nation customs duties. these clauses are also intended to avoid the massive importation of products which are not of georgian origin but which transit through this caucasian country in order to benefit from these preferential tariffs. although well-intentioned, these clauses remain ineffective in that domestic industries remain vulnerable as long as there is no major danger to the european industry. moreover, the measures mentioned above are clearly not very effective. finally, the amendments to the text are absolutely negligible. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to implement the safeguard clause in the eu-georgia association agreement, allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences granted to georgia. this instrument, which is provided for in each of the union's association agreements with third countries, is designed to safeguard the interests of european companies when preferences granted to third countries lead to a significant and unexpected increase in imports to the detriment of european production. the suspension is for a maximum of six months. i believe that the policy of development aid to third countries of the european union must not be carried out at the expense of the interests of our economy, especially agriculture, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the aim of this text is to incorporate into european law the anti-circumvention mechanism provided for in the association agreement between the european union and georgia. i am in favour of the possibility of suspending preferential customs duties when the volume of imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products from georgia exceeds a certain ceiling without their exact origin being validly justified.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union and georgia is an important instrument for strengthening trade links, promoting respect for human rights and good governance in georgia. as such, it must be seen as an opportunity for georgians and europeans. the trade side of this agreement must be beneficial to the economies of both parties but also include safety nets for products deemed sensitive. the establishment of the anti-circumvention mechanism will therefore allow the tariff preferences on certain products such as meat, dairy products and cereals to be suspended as necessary in the event of an unjustified increase in imports from georgia. it will, in particular, prevent fraud against the rules of origin, such as the transit of products from neighbouring countries through georgia in order to benefit from european preferences.
in writing. ‒ it is commendable to want to fight against the use of preferential tariffs of georgia by exporters of products from outside this country. however, the amended text does not improve the mechanisms for protecting european agriculture. the anti-circumvention clause applies after six months of investigation, via the european commission. moreover, it is intended to protect only the branch of the union concerned and not the branch of one of the member states. i therefore decided to abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because i consider that these anti-circumvention measures are neither effective nor effective.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the anti-circumvention mechanism of the eu-georgia association agreement. it provides that in the event of serious trade damage to the european union, the union may suspend free trade as defined in the association agreement and revert to the most favoured nation (mfn) clause. but the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the clauses to protect european agriculture in the event of problems following the eu-georgia association agreement. that clause is very unprotective as it stands. the changes are very minor and do not improve the text. voting in favour of this text would be tantamount to endorsing a protection policy which is too minimalist. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr gabrielius landsbergis, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and georgia. the aim is to give the union the possibility of reintroducing customs duties when agricultural imports of undeclared origin from georgia exceed a certain threshold. the aim is to be able to protect european producers. this text is necessary for the implementation of the association agreement with georgia, which i approved with my colleagues in the european parliament in 2014. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which validates the proposal to create two protection mechanisms under the association agreement signed between the union and georgia. these mechanisms will make it possible to suspend the preferential clauses signed with georgia in cases where the import of georgian agricultural products would endanger european production.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism in the eu-georgia association agreement. the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the safeguard and anti-circumvention clause of the eu-georgia association agreement. these clauses are very unprotective as they are written. these clauses apply when the european branch is affected and not any national branch. the changes are very minor and do not improve the text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it does not bring anything interesting to the association agreement.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. as in the case of the previous text on the agreement with moldova, the anti-circumvention mechanism allows, when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products exceeds a certain stage with a doubt about their origins, to replace the preferential customs duty with the most favoured nation customs duty. again, this text does not provide any substantive information on this mechanism. given its futility, we prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ after four years of negotiations, the european union signed an association agreement with georgia in june 2014, which has since been applied provisionally. the agreement, which is still incomplete, grants a series of trade preferences to georgia but did not, until now, include an anti-circumvention mechanism - an instrument that allows the temporary suspension of preferential duties on certain products under the agreement when maximum import volumes are reached. it is in this context that the european parliament, without prejudging the political or strategic expediency of an association agreement with georgia, was led to validate the inclusion of an anti-circumvention mechanism. i voted in favour of the introduction of such an instrument, which already exists in all the association agreements concluded by the european union with the countries of its eastern or mediterranean neighbourhood, as it is necessary to overcome any potential imbalance on the european market, despite the low volumes in question.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the union and georgia provides for the establishment of an 'anti-circumvention mechanism' allowing the suspension of the preferential customs duties granted to the country when the import quotas for certain agricultural products defined in the agreement are exceeded. it is aimed above all at minimising the devastating effects of the free trade agreement by means of an anti-dumping measure which is very difficult to implement and which is never invoked in agreements where it already exists. it is a bandage on a wooden leg, in a context of economic and political war against russia and its eurasian union. i am opposed to these free trade agreements, which are a real danger to our farmers, and i will not therefore support this measure. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the anti-circumvention mechanism of the eu-georgia association agreement. it provides that in the event of serious trade damage to the european union, the union may suspend free trade as defined in the association agreement and revert to the most favoured nation (mfn) clause. in fact, the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the clauses intended to protect european agriculture in the event of problems arising from the eu-georgia association agreement. the tone of this clause reveals its very unprotective character. the changes are very minor and do not improve the text. i would support a protection policy which is too minimalist if i were to support this text. so i refrained.
in writing. this vote concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the text contains an anti-circumvention clause, which allows the preferential customs duty to be replaced by the most-favoured-nation customs duty. in reality, this text does nothing more than add to existing law, which does not protect our farmers in the event of problems. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the eu-georgia association agreement. the agreement provides for restrictive measures in the event of imports of products in such quantities as to cause or threaten to cause injury to union producers of similar or directly competing products. i have approved this text, which aims to protect the european economy and jobs.
in writing. ‒ in the framework of the eu-euratom-georgia association agreement, i voted in favour of the report on the anti-circumvention mechanism which allows for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences, and highlights the importance for the european parliament of access to information.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative resolution of the european parliament of 3 february 2016 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. we call in particular for this regulation to provide for the possibility of suspending preferential duties for a period of up to six months when imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products reach the annual import volumes defined.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement with georgia, signed on 27 june 2014, is applied on a provisional basis as from 1 september 2014. the agreement includes an 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which allows the reintroduction of the most-favoured-nation (mfn) rate of customs duty when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceeds a specified ceiling without a valid justification of their exact origin. i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the commission's proposal for a regulation to create the legal instrument allowing the application of the anti-circumvention mechanism provided for in the agreement already concluded with georgia. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ the amended text adds almost nothing to the substance of the safeguard and anti-circumvention clause of the eu-georgia association agreement. these clauses are very unprotective and the changes made are very minor and do not improve the text. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to facilitate the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. the aim of the text is to introduce exceptions to copyright in order to facilitate access to works by blind or visually impaired persons. if this treaty reveals the failure of the union to protect disabled people, it is necessary to support its implementation.
in writing. ‒ in order to facilitate the ratification of this treaty, i voted in favour of this resolution. i do indeed approve of its content for the benefit of disabled people, which will allow exceptions to copyright for disabled people, which would facilitate the making available of published works in formats appropriate to them. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty aims to create exceptions to copyright to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of published works in formats designed to be accessible to blind or visually impaired persons. this also applies to persons with physical disabilities who are unable to hold or handle a book. adopted on 27 june 2013, it is part of the international copyright treaties administered by the wipo (world intellectual property organization). the european union and the member states signed the treaty in april 2014. however, this treaty will not enter into force until 20 ratifications have been made and it would appear that seven member states of the union are refusing to do so. in the meantime, i have supported this report, which i think is right.
in writing. ‒ this treaty explores interesting ways to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of works published in formats designed to be accessible to blind or visually impaired people. such a treaty is to be welcomed. however, this treaty, which is the will of the citizens of the european union, illustrates the clear failure of europe to defend disabled people. the desire of seven member states of the union to prevent ratification of the treaty is regrettable. the idea of encouraging the reproduction of works accessible to people with disabilities is commendable. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the treaty is to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of published works in formats accessible to people who are blind or visually impaired or who are so handicapped that they cannot handle a book. this treaty, signed by all the member states, is not ratified in some of them, probably as a result of the intervention of publishing lobbies, and therefore does not enter into force. i am in favour of this resolution on the ratification of this treaty. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty aims to facilitate the reproduction and distribution of works published in formats suitable for the blind or disabled, in particular by creating exceptions to copyright. in june 2013, it was adopted and is now part of the international copyright treaties handled by the world intellectual property organization. although the treaty was signed by the european union and its member states in april 2014, it will not enter into force until the union has 20 ratifications. to date, seven member states do not appear to wish to ratify the treaty. the council therefore wishes to include the provisions of this treaty in a new copyright directive. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is intended to facilitate the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, although it illustrates the failure of the european union to defend the disabled.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works for the visually impaired and print-disabled was signed by the european union and its member states. this treaty will make access to books more equal and will be a first step in the fight against the shortage of books. the treaty will be put into practice in the union in the next revision of european copyright legislation. i voted in favour of this resolution, which echoes a petition on the same subject. the resolution calls for the treaty to be ratified by all member states.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, meps, responding to a number of petitions, strongly criticise the seven eu member states which have been a blocking minority in the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty. the aim of this treaty is to facilitate access to published works by the blind, visually impaired and other print disabled. parliament called on the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process. i have supported this resolution because i believe that it is necessary to make cultural products more accessible to people with disabilities.
in writing. the european parliament calls on the council and the member states to speed up the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by the blind, visually impaired and other print disabled. it is necessary to promote the rights of disabled people and their access to cultural goods without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty of 27 june 2013 allows for exceptions to copyright in order to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of works accessible to visually impaired or physically disabled persons. it requires 20 ratifications to be implemented, but seven eu states seem to oppose it. in order to make progress on this issue, the council of the european union would like to incorporate the provisions of the treaty into the new copyright directive, rather than waiting for the treaty to be ratified. although the revision of the directive may also take time, i supported this text which is in the right direction, that of action towards the most vulnerable among us.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the marrakesh treaty creates exceptions to copyright for the benefit of blind people.
in writing. with who estimating that there are over 314 million blind and visually impaired people in the world, 90% of whom live in developing countries, and with less than 5% of the 1 million books published each year in the world being published in accessible formats for the visually impaired, action is urgent! but we must, together with my colleagues in the house, note with bitterness that this is not the direction in which the european union is currently moving. seven eu member states (germany, cyprus, hungary, italy, poland, the united kingdom and slovenia) have formed a blocking minority that is hindering the process of ratifying the 2013 marrakesh treaty, which aims to facilitate access to cultural heritage for blind and visually impaired people. by signing the marrakesh treaty, the union and the member states nevertheless made a political commitment to ratify the treaty. the lack of real will on the part of the member states to reach a constructive agreement is a flagrant violation of the right to easily accessible information, which is enshrined in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ in order to facilitate the ratification of this treaty, i voted in favour of this resolution. i approve of its content in favour of the disabled. it would allow exceptions to copyright for these people, making it easier to make published works available in formats that are appropriate for them. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, based on the petitions received by the european parliament. the aim of the marrakesh treaty, to which the european union is a signatory, is to facilitate access to published works for the blind and visually impaired. i fully support the ratification of this treaty, since today less than 10% of the world's works are made available in accessible forms for the visually impaired. the ratification of this treaty by the member states will make up for this shortfall and will be effective once the revision of the european copyright framework is completed, as the european commission plans to do in 2016. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. the aim of the directive is to create exceptions to copyright to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of published works in formats designed to be accessible to blind or visually impaired persons. this also applies to persons with physical disabilities who are unable to hold or handle a book. the european union and its member states signed the treaty in april 2014, but it will not enter into force until 20 ratifications have been made. it seems that seven member states of the union have blocked the ratification of the treaty. at the moment, the council of the european union would like to include the provisions of the treaty in the new copyright directive, rather than ratify the treaty. but the revision of this directive could take time...
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to encourage the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. this is an interesting treaty because it aims to create exceptions to copyright to facilitate the reproduction of works in formats accessible to blind or visually impaired persons.
in writing. - i voted for this ratification. the marrakesh treaty allows for exceptions to copyright to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of published works in a format designed to be accessible to blind or visually impaired persons, and to persons with physical disabilities who are unable to hold or manipulate a book. the treaty will not be able to enter into force until it has been ratified by 20 member states, but at the moment seven member states appear to be standing in the way of ratification.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution which calls on the council to ratify as soon as possible the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to printed texts for the blind and visually impaired. only 5% of all published books exist in braille. for several years now, associations have been campaigning to put an end to this "hunger for books" which introduces profound inequality from school. but the real point of the story is that seven member states, germany foremost among them, are holding back and preferring to wait for the revision of the copyright directive. the european machine is therefore blocked, since the commission would have to ratify the treaty on behalf of all the member states. that's a good example of what i'm denouncing. france must disobey and ratify this treaty for her people without delay.
in writing. ‒ in order to facilitate the ratification of this treaty, i voted in favour of this resolution. i approve of its content in favour of the disabled. it would allow exceptions to copyright for these individuals, making it easier to make published works available in formats that are appropriate to them. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states signed the marrakesh treaty in april 2014 to create exceptions to copyright to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of published works in formats designed to be accessible to people who are blind or visually impaired. this also applies to persons with physical disabilities who are unable to hold or handle a book. at the moment, the council of the european union would like to include the provisions of the treaty in the new copyright directive, rather than ratify the treaty. but the revision of this directive could take time. the marrakesh treaty illustrates europe's failure to defend the disabled. it has not yet been ratified, probably because it restricts copyright. it therefore goes against the interests of important people: authors, publishers, translators. it is therefore proposed that we vote in favour of ratification.
in writing. the vote is to ratify the marrakesh treaty adopted in 2013. the latter provides for exceptions to copyright to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of published works in formats designed to be accessible to blind or visually impaired persons. this also applies to persons with physical disabilities who are unable to hold or handle a book. i decided to vote in favour of this text, which slightly limits the excessive expansion of copyright.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the council and the member states to speed up the process of ratifying the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by the blind, visually impaired and other print disabled. the aim is to enable the crossborder exchange, within the union and between the union and third countries, of books in braille or large print, digital or audio-digital books with special navigation tools, produced under copyright exceptions. the european union signed the treaty in 2014, and each member state must sign and ratify it before it can be applied. the current french government is making ratification conditional on the amendment of the 2001 european disability exemption directive and is thus blocking this process, which i regret. the world health organization estimated in 2010 that there were more than 26 million people in all of europe who were blind or visually impaired. however, only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are produced in accessible formats for people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, calling on the council and the member states to speed up the process to ensure respect for the right of persons with disabilities to access education and culture, as well as the protection of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for ratification of the marrakesh treaty. to date, 79 countries have signed the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by the blind, visually impaired and other print disabled, but it needs to be ratified for its provisions to enter into force. european citizens have rightly called on us, through a petition to the european parliament, to speed up the process. we have therefore taken it upon ourselves to press for ratification to be accelerated. this shows the effectiveness and the role of the petition as a relay for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works by the blind, visually impaired and other print disabled. the treaty currently has 79 signatories and the european union signed the text on 30 april 2014. however, each member state must now also ratify the treaty and the process is long. with only 1% to 7% of the world's published works made available in accessible formats, it is urgent that all parties ratify the treaty as soon as possible to ensure non-discriminatory access to cultural goods.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty aims to create exceptions to copyright to facilitate the reproduction, distribution and making available of published works in formats designed to be accessible to blind or visually impaired persons. this also applies to persons with physical disabilities who are unable to hold or handle a book. the treaty will not enter into force until 20 ratifications have been made. it seems that seven member states of the union have blocked the ratification of the treaty. the marrakesh treaty illustrates europe's failure to defend the disabled. it has not yet been ratified, probably because it restricts copyright. the resolution put to the vote is intended to facilitate ratification of the treaty. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection by the european parliament on the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified fg72 soybean. i am in fact strongly opposed to the introduction of new gmos on the market. in addition, efsa provided an unsatisfactory assessment which highlights in particular relevant comments from member states in this regard. although i regret that this text is only symbolic in that it is not binding on the commission, i support this objection.
in writing. ‒ the cultivation of monsanto's soybeans is part of the colonization of europe by foreign interests: the properties of this soybean serve only the interests of monsanto and, in the short term, those of industrial farmers. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, while its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of finding out who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i therefore very logically voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified fg72 soybean.
in writing. ‒ as regards my general position on gmos, i am against the precautionary principle which prevents research in europe. i am also astonished at the hypocrisy of banning the marketing of these products which europe then allows itself to import. however, i voted against the marketing of this pesticide-resistant variety, because it is considered by many research centres, including the one in lyon, as a variety which could be dangerous.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to authorise three new gm soya beans from bayer cropscience and monsanto. all three are glyphosate-tolerant, with a different characteristic for the two monsanto gmos: different fatty acid composition for the gmo mon 87705 × mon 89788 and tolerance to dicamba (a pesticide) for the gmo mon 87708 × mon 89788. these properties only serve the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers (again, this is not proven). as in previous cases of gmo authorisation, the evaluation provided by efsa remains clearly unsatisfactory. unfortunately, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission, and the amendments tabled by my group to make objections binding and to recall that the commission does not even wait for the end of objection procedures to publish gmo authorizations have unfortunately been rejected. their rejection, recorded by roll call voting, thus shows the hypocrisy of elected officials who are in reality against "democratic control" of the placing of gmos on the market. however, it should be possible to issue authorisations for gmos by means of a delegated act and not by means of an implementing act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection from the parliament to the commission concerning a marketing authorisation for products concerning genetically modified soybean fg72. in fact, despite repeated warnings from the member states and the concern of consumer protection associations, the european food safety authority - which has a bad name - is still trying to market this modified soybean, for the sole benefit and in the sole interest of monsanto. it should be noted that this genetically modified fg72 soybean is clearly tolerant to glyphosate, a total herbicide that monsanto markets under the brand name "roundup", which remains the most widely used herbicide in the world and which, according to recent studies, has tumourogenic and toxic effects. once again the commission is showing its willingness to submit to the big industrial groups, to the detriment of europe's economic interests but also of food safety and health in europe.
in writing. ‒ the three gm soybeans that the commission proposes to allow for import have properties that only serve the interests of monsanto and possibly industrial farmers. i consider that once again efsa has provided an unsatisfactory assessment of the risks involved and that the objections proposed by the envi committee are well founded. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of these objections.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to authorise the marketing of three new types of genetically modified soya beans from the us company monsanto. it is in this context that this objection is intended to signal parliament's opposition to the placing on the market of these three genetically modified organisms (gmos) tolerant of glyphosate. one of them also shows tolerance to the pesticide dicamba. if this objection does not force the commission to abandon the marketing of these gmos, we consider it essential to support it in order to show parliament's disapproval of the commission and efsa whose assessments are unsatisfactory and do not take account of the comments of the member states' authorities. that is why i voted for this objection.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution by a member of the european parliament (mep) from the socialist and democratic group concerns the draft commission decision in favour of authorising the use of glyphosate-tolerant gmo soybean fg72 in food and feed products. the rapporteur argues that glyphosate is a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). however, this justification is questionable. on the one hand, the draft decision of the european commission follows the positive opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa). its conclusions are based on a large number of studies, including those of iarc, and scientific data, as the authors explained in an exchange of views with meps last december. secondly, the commission has respected its mandate within the framework of its implementing powers deriving from european legislation, approved by the european parliament. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take account of the many precautionary measures voted by the european legislator in this area. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed companies that hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorisations for the use of three genetically modified soya beans tolerating glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who). in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto, which are tolerant of glyphosate. gmo b has a different fatty acid composition and gmo c a different tolerance to the pesticide dicamba. since these properties are only intended to serve monsanto's interests and since efsa has not taken into account the relevant advice of the states, i naturally voted in favour of these objections. finally, our three amendments aimed to make authorizations take the form of delegated acts, in order to ensure democratic control of the placing of gmos on the market.
in writing. i voted for this report because i am opposed to the marketing of gmos.
in writing. ‒ the cultivation of monsanto's soybeans is part of the colonization of europe by foreign interests: the properties of this soybean serve only the interests of monsanto, and in the short term those of industrial farmers. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, while its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of finding out who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i have of course voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified fg72 soybeans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleagues bart staes, sirpa pietikäinen, guillaume balas, lynn boylan and eleonora evi on the objection under rule 106 concerning the authorisation to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean fg72. the commission has been accused by some political groups, led by the greens, of not having followed the authorisation procedure for genetically modified organisms. the european food safety authority has however conducted a study which concluded that this product is safe for humans, animals and the environment. in particular, the marketing authorisation is currently a matter for the member states. that resolution was adopted, and i regret it.
in writing. ‒ this objection was raised by some political groups who believe that the european commission has exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean fg72. however, the european food safety authority has conducted a full and proper study to allow this soybean. moreover, although authorisation to grow gmos is granted at european level, it is the states that retain control over the authorisation to place the products on the market. i therefore voted against this objection, which was merely declaratory, without foundation and without any legal effect.
in writing. ‒ the commission was asking us to allow the import of three gm soya beans resistant to glyphosate. glyphosate is a herbicide recognized by the world health organization as a carcinogen. despite these recommendations, the european health authority (efsa), whose relationships with the gmo industries have been too often demonstrated, continues to consider it harmless. i therefore voted against these authorizations. they are dangerous, they do not respect the precautionary principle and they undermine the european position against gmos in order to promote trade at the expense of our health. these efsa positions in favour of gmos are increasingly problematic. efsa must take account of the concerns of the public and, above all, completely overhaul its assessment procedures, which are the play of the big multinational seed companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 on the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean fg72. the commission proposes to authorise genetically modified soybean fg72. this gmo is tolerant of glyphosate, which is probably carcinogenic to humans. as in previous cases of authorisation of gmos, the european food safety authority (efsa) provided an unsatisfactory evaluation, in particular disregarding the relevant comments of the member states. unfortunately, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission. this is the subject of the enl amendment, which draws attention to this fact and calls for authorisations to be issued in the form of delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted for that objection. the european commission is proposing to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto. these three gmos, including fg72, have the characteristic of being tolerant to glyphosate, a property that serves only the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers. in addition, efsa (european food safety authority) provided an unsatisfactory assessment, including by disregarding relevant comments from member states. we therefore support this objection.
in writing. ‒ this resolution opposes the commission's implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2). the application also covers the production of soybean meal containing glyphosate and the production of soybean meal containing glyphosate. the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), the specialized agency of the world health organization for cancer research, classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen on 20 march 2015. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the exploitation of europe by foreign interests. the properties of this gmo soybean only serve the interests of monsanto and, in the short term, those of industrial farmers. these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, although its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of identifying those elected officials who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i have of course voted against the placing on the market of fg72 soya beans.
in writing. the purpose of these votes is to signal the european parliament's opposition to the placing on the market of three new gmos, by import. this is gmo fg72. the commission proposes to authorise three new gm soya beans from monsanto, which serve only the interests of the multinational. as usual, efsa provided incomplete explanations which did not take into account the relevant comments of the member states. the whole process of granting authorisations is therefore at issue, as a study to challenge the action of efsa is to be produced in order to reject the budgetary discharge of this unobjective agency. however, these objections of the parliament will probably remain as a dead letter since they are not binding. the enf group therefore tabled three amendments requesting that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts and no longer in the form of implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection tabled by the socialists, the greens, the far left and supported by the far right, concerning genetically modified soybean fg72. these groups based their objection on the fact that the european commission exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from this genetically modified soybean variety. unfortunately, this objection was adopted in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and while the commission, before issuing its proposal for authorisation, respected the existing procedure for gmos by relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. this proposal was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection concerning the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified fg72 soybean, which is based on a false accusation of alleged non-respect of the commission's powers. the authorization to place these products on the market was granted within the framework of the commission's powers. moreover, i do not think that there is any need to object to this, since the member states themselves determine whether or not to apply the authorization. i therefore voted against a symbolic objection without any basis to support the work of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this objection because the arguments developed by the european left, which is largely at the origin of it, are wrong. the commission has in no way exceeded its powers to authorise the placing on the market of these products. i would remind you that this is only an authorization. the actual marketing of these products is still a matter for the member states, and therefore for the governments.
in writing. - the european commission is making a fool of the world. it has been condemned by the court of justice of the european union for failing to set out criteria for endocrine disruptors and it wants to accept three gm soybeans that are tolerant of glyphosate. the active substance in monsanto's roundup herbicide is itself an endocrine disruptor with harmful effects, particularly on human reproductive functions. and two of those soybeans are being marketed by monsanto, which is definitely winning in every way. we were not elected to serve the interests of this criminal multinational. as long as the european legislation governing the authorization of gmos remains lax and the commission is outlawed, we will reject gmos en masse, especially when they are tolerant of chemical substances which are poorly regulated by european law. we have already taken this position in the european parliament in october 2015.
in writing. ‒ as with the objection to genetically modified maize voted last december, i supported the objection to the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified fg72 soybeans. rejecting the new marketing authorisations for gmos is a way for our parliament to send a clear message to the european commission to review the current authorisation process for gmos. this process is neither satisfactory nor democratic, as each authorisation decision has been adopted by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states and without regard to the opinion of the parliament. i would also like to point out that public opinion remains negative towards gmos, that the risk assessment is considered insufficient and that there is no 90-day toxicity study. finally, i think that the precautionary principle is justified here, given the tolerance of the soybean in question to herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance under evaluation which could be harmful to health.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposed to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. two of them have another characteristic: different fatty acid composition for gmo b and tolerance to dicamba (a pesticide) for gmo c. these properties only serve the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers (again, this is not proven). as in previous cases of authorisation of gmos, efsa provided an unsatisfactory assessment, in particular disregarding the relevant comments of the member states. furthermore, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission. i therefore vote in favour of the objection, even if it is only a token one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection by the european parliament on the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. i am in fact strongly opposed to the introduction of new gmos on the market. in addition, efsa provided an unsatisfactory assessment which highlights in particular relevant comments from member states in this regard. although i regret that this text is only symbolic, because it is not binding on the commission, i support this objection.
in writing. ‒ the cultivation of monsanto's soybeans is part of the colonization of europe by foreign interests: the properties of this soybean serve only the interests of monsanto, and in the short term those of industrial farmers. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, while its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of finding out who are the elected representatives who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i therefore logically voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788.
in writing. ‒ as regards my general position on gmos, i am against the precautionary principle which prevents research in europe. i am also astonished at the hypocrisy of banning the marketing of these products which europe then allows itself to import. however, i voted against the marketing of this pesticide-resistant variety, because it is considered by many research centres, including the one in lyon, as a variety which could be dangerous.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to authorise three new gm soya beans from bayer cropscience and monsanto. all three are glyphosate-tolerant, with a different characteristic for the two monsanto gmos: different fatty acid composition for the gmo mon 87705 × mon 89788 and tolerance to dicamba (a pesticide) for the gmo mon 87708 × mon 89788. these properties only serve the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers (again, this is not proven). as in previous cases of gmo authorisation, the evaluation provided by efsa remains clearly unsatisfactory. unfortunately, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission, and the amendments tabled by my group to make objections binding and to recall that the commission does not even wait for the end of the objection procedures to publish the authorizations of gmos have unfortunately been rejected. their rejection, recorded by rcv, thus shows the hypocrisy of elected officials who are in fact against "democratic control" of the placing of gmos on the market. however, it should be possible to issue authorisations for gmos by means of a delegated act and not by means of an implementing act.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this objection by parliament to an authorisation to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. in addition to my opposition in principle to gmos, which are potentially dangerous to health and threaten the ecosystem, i would like to stress that in this particular case efsa has once again shown dogmatism by issuing a rather flimsy assessment and ignoring the relevant comments of the member states on the subject. the health and food safety of the citizens of the eu member states apparently weigh little in the balance against the interests of american industrialists, and particularly monsanto, which is not afraid to market this soybean with a different fatty acid composition. the european parliament has also called for the commission to take a more active role in the negotiations on the ttip, and to ensure that the negotiations are conducted in a manner that is consistent with the principles of the treaty of rome.
in writing. ‒ the three gm soya plants which the commission proposes to allow for import have properties which only serve the interests of monsanto and possibly industrial farmers. i consider that efsa has once again provided an unsatisfactory assessment of the risks involved and that the objections proposed by the envi committee are well founded. for all these reasons, i voted for these objections.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to authorise the marketing of three new types of genetically modified soya beans from the us company monsanto. it is in this context that this objection is intended to signal parliament's opposition to the placing on the market of these three genetically modified organisms (gmos) tolerant of glyphosate. one of them also shows tolerance to the pesticide dicamba. although this objection will not force the commission to abandon the marketing of these gmos, we consider it essential to vote in favour of it to show parliament's disapproval of the commission and efsa whose assessments are unsatisfactory and do not take account of the comments of the member states' authorities. that is why i voted for this objection.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution by a member of the european parliament (mep) from the socialist and democratic group concerns the draft decision of the european commission in favour of the authorisation of the gmo soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788 tolerating glyphosate in food and feed products. the rapporteur argues that glyphosate is a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). however, this justification is questionable. on the one hand, the draft decision of the european commission follows the positive opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa). its conclusions are based on a large number of studies, including those of iarc, and scientific data, as the authors explained in an exchange of views with meps last december. on the other hand, the european commission has respected its mandate within the framework of its executive power derived from european legislation, approved by the european parliament. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take account of the many precautionary measures voted by the european legislator in this area. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed companies that hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorisations for the use of three genetically modified soya beans tolerating glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who). in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto, which are tolerant of glyphosate. gmo b has a different fatty acid composition and gmo c a different tolerance to the pesticide dicamba. since these properties are only intended to serve monsanto's interests and since efsa has not taken into account the relevant advice of the states, i naturally voted in favour of these objections. finally, our three amendments aimed at authorizations in the form of delegated acts, in order to ensure democratic control of the placing of gmos on the market.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i am against the placing of gmos on the market.
in writing. ‒ the cultivation of monsanto's soybeans is part of the colonization of europe by foreign interests: the properties of this soybean serve only the interests of monsanto, and in the short term those of industrial farmers. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, while its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of finding out who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i have of course voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleagues bart staes, sirpa pietikäinen, guillaume balas, lynn boylan and eleonora evi on the objection under rule 106 concerning the authorisation to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the commission has been accused by some political groups, led by the greens, of not having followed the authorisation procedure for genetically modified organisms. the european food safety authority has however conducted a study which concluded that this product is safe for humans, animals and the environment. in particular, the marketing authorisation is currently a matter for the member states. that resolution was adopted, and i regret it.
in writing. ‒ this objection was raised by a number of political groups on the grounds that the european commission exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. however, the european food safety authority has conducted a full and proper study to allow this soybean. moreover, although authorisation to grow gmos is granted at european level, it is the states that retain control over the authorisation to place the products on the market. i therefore voted against this objection, which was merely declaratory, without foundation and without any legal effect.
in writing. ‒ the commission was asking us to allow the import of three gm soya beans resistant to glyphosate. glyphosate is a herbicide recognized by the world health organization as a carcinogen. despite these recommendations, the european health authority (efsa), whose relationships with the gmo industries have been too often demonstrated, continues to consider it harmless. i therefore vote against these authorizations. they are dangerous, they do not respect the precautionary principle and they undermine the european position against gmos in order to promote trade at the expense of our health. these efsa positions in favour of gmos are increasingly problematic. efsa must take account of the concerns of the public and, above all, completely overhaul its assessment procedures, which are the play of the big multinational seed companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the commission proposes to authorise genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. this gmo is tolerant of glyphosate, which is probably carcinogenic to humans. as in previous cases of authorisation of gmos, the european food safety authority (efsa) provided an unsatisfactory evaluation, in particular disregarding the relevant comments of the member states. unfortunately, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission. this is the subject of the enl amendment, which points this out and calls for authorisations to be issued in the form of delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted for that objection. as in the previous case, the european commission proposes to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto, including mon 87708 x mon 89788, which, like the previous one, is tolerant to glyphosate and has a different composition of fatty acids, two properties that serve only the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers. in addition, efsa (european food safety authority) provided an unsatisfactory assessment, including by disregarding relevant comments from member states. we therefore support this objection.
in writing. ‒ this resolution opposes the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. this is because this genetically modified soy expresses the dmo proteins, which confer resistance to dicamba-containing herbicides, and the cp4 epsps protein, which confers tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. however, the international agency for research on cancer, the who's specialized agency for cancer research, classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen on 20 march 2015. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the exploitation of europe by foreign interests. the properties of this gmo soybean only serve the interests of monsanto, and in the short term those of industrial farmers. these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, although its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of identifying those elected officials who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i have of course voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of mon 87708 × mon 89788 soybeans.
in writing. the purpose of these votes is to signal the european parliament's opposition to the placing on the market of three new gmos, by import. the gmos in question are mon 87708 and mon 89788. the commission proposes to authorise three new gm soya beans from monsanto, which serve only the interests of the multinational. as usual, efsa provided incomplete explanations which did not take into account the relevant comments of the member states. the whole process of granting authorisations is therefore at issue, as a study to challenge the action of efsa is to be produced in order to reject the budgetary discharge of this unobjective agency. however, these objections of the parliament will probably remain as a dead letter since they are not binding. the enf group therefore tabled three amendments requesting that authorisations should now be in the form of delegated acts and no longer in the form of implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection tabled by the socialists, the greens, the far left and supported by the far right, concerning genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. these groups based their objection on the fact that the european commission exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from this genetically modified soybean variety. unfortunately, this objection was adopted in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and while the commission, before issuing its proposal for authorisation, respected the existing procedure for gmos by relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. this proposal was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection concerning the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788, which is based on a false accusation of alleged non-respect of the commission's powers. the authorization to place these products on the market was granted within the framework of the commission's powers. moreover, i do not think that there is any need to object to this, since the member states themselves determine whether or not to apply the authorization. i therefore voted against a symbolic objection without any basis to support the work of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this objection because the arguments advanced by the european left, which is largely at the origin of it, are wrong. the commission has in no way exceeded its powers in authorizing the placing on the market of these products. i would remind you that this is only an authorization. the actual marketing of these products is still a matter for the member states, and therefore for the governments.
in writing. - the european commission is making a fool of the world. it has been condemned by the court of justice of the european union for failing to set out criteria for endocrine disruptors and it wants to accept three gm soybeans that are tolerant of glyphosate. the active substance in monsanto's roundup herbicide is itself an endocrine disruptor with harmful effects, particularly on human reproductive functions. and two of those soybeans are being marketed by monsanto, which is definitely winning in every way. we were not elected to serve the interests of this criminal multinational. as long as the european legislation governing the authorization of gmos remains lax and the commission is outlawed, we will reject gmos en masse, especially when they are tolerant of chemical substances that are poorly regulated by european law. we have already taken this position in the european parliament in october 2015.
in writing. ‒ as with the objection to genetically modified maize voted last december, i supported the objection to the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. rejecting the new marketing authorisations for gmos is a way for our parliament to send a clear message to the european commission to review the current authorisation process for gmos. this process is neither satisfactory nor democratic, as each authorisation decision has been adopted by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states and without regard to the opinion of the parliament. i would also like to point out that public opinion remains negative towards gmos, that the risk assessment is considered insufficient and that there is no 90-day toxicity study. finally, i think that the precautionary principle is justified here, given the tolerance of the soybean in question to herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance under evaluation which could be harmful to health.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposed to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. two of them have another characteristic: different fatty acid composition for gmo b and tolerance to dicamba (a pesticide) for gmo c. these properties only serve the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers (again, this is not proven). as in previous cases of authorisation of gmos, efsa provided an unsatisfactory assessment, in particular disregarding the relevant comments of the member states. furthermore, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission. i therefore vote in favour of the objection, even if it is only a token one.
in writing. ‒ following the authorisation by the commission to import three gmos, fg 72, mon 87708 and mon 87705 soya beans, for human consumption, the european parliament, on the basis of proposals from my group gue/ngl and the green group, exercised its right to oppose these authorisations. in giving the green light to these authorizations, the commission has, once again, ignored the position of the european parliament on gmos. it has always approved applications following positive opinions from the european food safety authority. such decisions are contrary to the rejection of the legislative revision proposal made in april 2015 allowing national bans by the european parliament in october 2014, as the european parliament considered that such relaxation did not meet the need to protect european citizens from the environmental and health risks of gmos. i voted to reject these authorizations. the european parliament is thus sending a new political signal to the commission to review eu legislation on gmos and to listen to the voices of the european citizens who are massively opposed to gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection by the european parliament on the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. i am in fact strongly opposed to the introduction of new gmos on the market. in addition, efsa provided an unsatisfactory assessment which highlights in particular relevant comments from member states in this regard. although i regret that this text is only symbolic, because it is not binding on the commission, i support this objection.
in writing. ‒ the cultivation of monsanto's soybeans is part of the colonization of europe by foreign interests: the properties of this soybean serve only the interests of monsanto, and in the short term those of industrial farmers. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, while its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of finding out who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i therefore logically voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788.
in writing. ‒ as regards my general position on gmos, i am against the precautionary principle which prevents research in europe. i am also astonished at the hypocrisy of banning the marketing of these products which europe then allows itself to import. nevertheless, i voted against the marketing of this pesticide-resistant variety, because it is considered by many research centres, particularly the one in lyon, as a variety which could be dangerous.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to authorise three new gm soya beans from bayer cropscience and monsanto. all three are glyphosate-tolerant, with a different characteristic for the two monsanto gmos: different fatty acid composition for the gmo mon 87705 × mon 89788 and tolerance to dicamba (a pesticide) for the gmo mon 87708 × mon 89788. these properties only serve the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers (again, this is not proven). as in previous cases of gmo authorisation, the evaluation provided by efsa remains clearly unsatisfactory. unfortunately, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission, and the amendments tabled by my group to make objections binding and to recall that the commission does not even wait for the end of objection procedures to publish gmo authorizations have unfortunately been rejected. their rejection, recorded by rcv, thus shows the hypocrisy of elected officials who are in fact against "democratic control" of the placing of gmos on the market. however, it should be possible to issue authorisations for gmos by means of a delegated act and not by means of an implementing act.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's objection to the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. the authorization by efsa shows the gradual abandonment of the precautionary principle in food safety and the submission of the commission to pressure from large industrial groups such as monsanto. the genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 is tolerant to dicamba, a pesticide known to be teratogenic and more generally toxic to humans, especially to pregnant women. such endangerment of consumers, despite the reservations expressed by the member states, is irresponsible on the part of efsa.
in writing. ‒ the three gm soya plants which the commission proposes to allow for import have properties which only serve the interests of monsanto and possibly industrial farmers. i consider that efsa has once again provided an unsatisfactory assessment of the risks involved and that the objections proposed by the envi committee are well founded. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of these objections.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to authorise the marketing of three new types of genetically modified soya beans from the us company monsanto. it is in this context that this objection is intended to signal parliament's opposition to the placing on the market of these three genetically modified organisms (gmos) tolerant of glyphosate. one of them also shows tolerance to the pesticide dicamba. although this objection will not force the commission to abandon the marketing of these gmos, we consider it essential to vote in favour of it to show parliament's disapproval of the commission and efsa whose assessments are unsatisfactory and do not take account of the comments of the member states' authorities. that is why i voted for this objection.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution by a member of the european parliament (mep) from the socialist and democratic group concerns the draft decision of the european commission in favour of the authorisation of the gmo soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 tolerating glyphosate in food and feed products. the rapporteur argues that glyphosate is a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). however, this justification is questionable. on the one hand, the draft decision of the european commission follows the positive opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa). its conclusions are based on a large number of studies, including those of iarc, and scientific data, as the authors explained in an exchange of views with meps last december. on the other hand, the european commission has respected its mandate within the framework of its executive power derived from european legislation, approved by the european parliament. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take account of the many precautionary measures voted by the european legislator in this area. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed companies that hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorisations for the use of three genetically modified soya beans tolerating glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who). in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto, which are tolerant of glyphosate. gmo b has a different fatty acid composition and gmo c a different tolerance to the pesticide dicamba. since these properties are only intended to serve monsanto's interests and since efsa has not taken into account the relevant advice of the states, i naturally voted in favour of these objections. finally, our three amendments aimed at authorizations in the form of delegated acts, in order to ensure democratic control of the placing of gmos on the market.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i am against the placing of gmos on the market.
in writing. ‒ the cultivation of monsanto's soybeans is part of the colonization of europe by foreign interests: the properties of this soybean serve only the interests of monsanto, and in the short term those of industrial farmers. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, while its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of finding out who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i have of course voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleagues bart staes, sirpa pietikäinen, guillaume balas, lynn boylan and eleonora evi on the objection under rule 106 concerning the authorisation to place on the market products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. the commission has been accused by some political groups, led by the greens, of not having followed the authorisation procedure for genetically modified organisms. the european food safety authority has however conducted a study which concluded that this product is safe for humans, animals and the environment. in particular, the marketing authorisation is currently a matter for the member states. that resolution was adopted, and i regret it.
in writing. ‒ this objection was raised by a number of political groups who believe that the european commission has exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. however, the european food safety authority has conducted a full and proper study to allow this soybean. moreover, although authorisation to grow gmos is granted at european level, it is the states that retain control over the authorisation to place the products on the market. i therefore voted against this objection, which was merely declaratory, without foundation and without any legal effect.
in writing. ‒ the commission was asking us to allow the import of three gm soya beans resistant to glyphosate. glyphosate is a herbicide recognized by the world health organization as a carcinogen. despite these recommendations, the european health authority (efsa), whose relationships with the gmo industries have been too often demonstrated, continues to consider it harmless. i therefore voted against these authorizations. they are dangerous, they do not respect the precautionary principle and they undermine the european position against gmos in order to promote trade at the expense of our health. these efsa positions in favour of gmos are increasingly problematic. efsa must take account of the concerns of the public and, above all, completely overhaul its assessment procedures, which are the play of the big multinational seed companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106 concerning the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. the commission proposes to authorise genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. this gmo is tolerant of glyphosate, which is probably carcinogenic to humans. as in previous cases of authorisation of gmos, the european food safety authority (efsa) provided an unsatisfactory evaluation, in particular disregarding the relevant comments of the member states. unfortunately, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission. this is the subject of the enl amendment, which points this out and calls for authorisations to be issued in the form of delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted for that objection. as in the previous cases, the european commission is proposing to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto, including mon 87705 x mon 89788, which, like the previous ones, is tolerant to glyphosate and is also tolerant to the pesticide dicamba, both of which serve only the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers. in addition, efsa (european food safety authority) provided an unsatisfactory assessment, including by disregarding relevant comments from member states. we therefore support this objection.
in writing. ‒ this resolution opposes the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. this is because this genetically modified soybean expresses the cp4 epsps protein, which gives it tolerance to glyphosate-containing herbicides. on march 20, 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the specialized agency of the world health organization for cancer research, classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the exploitation of europe by foreign interests. the properties of this gmo soybean only serve the interests of monsanto, and in the short term those of industrial farmers. these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. efsa has ignored the reasoned objections of several member states, although its assessment of gmos is widely criticised. we have tabled amendments in plenary to ask that authorisations be granted in the form of delegated acts, with the aim of identifying those elected officials who are against 'democratic control' of the placing of gmos on the market. i have of course voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of mon 87705 × mon 89788 soybeans.
in writing. the purpose of these votes is to signal the european parliament's opposition to the placing on the market of three new gmos, by import. the gmos in question are mon 87705 and mon 89788. the commission proposes to authorise three new gm soya beans from monsanto, which serve only the interests of the multinational. as usual, efsa provided incomplete explanations which did not take into account the relevant comments of the member states. the whole process of granting authorisations is therefore at issue, as a study to challenge the action of efsa is to be produced in order to reject the budgetary discharge of this unobjective agency. but these objections of parliament will probably remain a dead letter since they are not binding. the enf group therefore tabled three amendments requesting that authorisations should now be in the form of delegated acts and no longer in the form of implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection tabled by the socialists, the greens, the far left and supported by the far right, concerning genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. these groups based their objection on the fact that the european commission exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from this genetically modified soybean variety. unfortunately, this objection was adopted in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and while the commission, before issuing its proposal for authorisation, respected the existing procedure for gmos by relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. this proposal was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection concerning the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788, which is based on a false accusation of alleged non-respect of the commission's powers. the authorization to place these products on the market was granted within the framework of the commission's powers. moreover, i do not think that there is any need to object to this, since the member states themselves determine whether or not to apply the authorization. i therefore voted against a symbolic objection without any basis to support the work of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this objection because the arguments advanced by the european left, which is largely at the origin of it, are wrong. the commission has in no way exceeded its powers in authorizing the placing on the market of these products. i would remind you that this is only an authorization. the actual marketing of these products is still a matter for the member states, and therefore for the governments.
in writing. - the european commission is making a fool of the world. it has been condemned by the court of justice of the european union for failing to set out criteria for endocrine disruptors and it wants to accept three gm soybeans that are tolerant of glyphosate. the active substance in monsanto's roundup herbicide is itself an endocrine disruptor with harmful effects, particularly on human reproductive functions. and two of those soybeans are being marketed by monsanto, which is definitely winning in every way. we were not elected to serve the interests of this criminal multinational. as long as the european legislation governing the authorization of gmos remains lax and the commission is outlawed, we will reject gmos en masse, especially when they are tolerant of chemical substances that are poorly regulated by european law. we have already taken this position in the european parliament in october 2015.
in writing. ‒ as with the objection to genetically modified maize voted last december, i supported the objection to the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788. rejecting the new marketing authorisations for gmos is a way for our parliament to send a clear message to the european commission to review the current authorisation process for gmos. this process is neither satisfactory nor democratic, as each authorisation decision has been adopted by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states and without regard to the opinion of the parliament. i would also like to point out that public opinion remains negative towards gmos, that the risk assessment is considered insufficient and that there is no 90-day toxicity study. finally, i think that the precautionary principle is justified here, given the tolerance of the soybean in question to herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance under evaluation which could be harmful to health.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposed to authorise three new gm soybeans from monsanto. all three of these gmos are glyphosate-tolerant. two of them have another characteristic: different fatty acid composition for gmo b and tolerance to dicamba (a pesticide) for gmo c. these properties only serve the interests of monsanto and industrial farmers (again, this is not proven). as in previous cases of gmo authorisation, efsa provided an unsatisfactory assessment, in particular disregarding the relevant comments of the member states. furthermore, objections to implementing acts are only symbolic and do not bind the commission. i therefore vote in favour of the objection, even if it is only a token one.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles. this proposal follows the volkswagen scandal, which revealed the considerable differences between pollutant emissions in the laboratory and those in real driving conditions. it should be remembered, however, that the cars involved have, on the other hand, emitted less carbon monoxide, a much more harmful gas. the resolution is a misguided strategy, since it seeks to impose additional, restrictive and costly standards on an industry already in crisis. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ the issue of vehicle emissions has returned to the forefront of european politics with the volkswagen case. the commission's strict standards for actual pollutant emissions do not yet require real driving conditions (rde) tests. the limit values established in a 2007 regulation are reviewed by internal procedures within the commission: the requirement of this motion for a resolution was therefore to request a new regulation, to be submitted by 1 april 2016, to impose tests in real conditions at the earliest. this race to standard is questionable for two reasons: first, europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world. secondly, technical standards are a cataplasm on a wooden leg in the fight against air pollution, because the eu is also increasingly encouraging the flows that generate these emissions. this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis. that is why i objected to this objection.
in writing. ‒ this objection follows the revelation of considerable differences between laboratory and real driving emissions (rde) for volkswagen diesel engines. the commission's stringent emission standards do not yet require such tests, so the text calls for a new regulation to be presented by 1 april 2016 to require real-world tests as soon as possible. the first recital recalls the numerical cost of air pollution (estimated at eur 940 billion per year) as a dogma, and justifies the need for increasingly stringent and costly technical standards. these requirements are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political ecology, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector already in crisis. that's why i objected.
in writing. ‒ it is not always easy to find one's way through the legislative and procedural tangles between the commission and the european parliament. this dossier is a very symptomatic example of the methods of smoking that can be practiced in the courts of these two european institutions. after having voted in favour of this resolution condemning the executive committee on the grounds that it had exceeded its rights and its powers of implementation to the detriment of the legal affairs committee in particular, i was able to realize that this was not the case and that, on the contrary, not supporting the commission's proposal for a regulation would mean a late and uncertain result in terms of policy for reducing pollutant emissions. the real question is which interests we must protect. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution, which was again born of a political and media scandal and without any long-term vision of the interests of the european automobile industry. this proposal follows the volkswagen scandal, which, admittedly, has revealed the considerable differences between the pollutant emissions in the laboratory and those in real driving conditions. it should be remembered, however, that the cars involved have, on the other hand, emitted less carbon monoxide, a much more harmful gas. the resolution is not a good strategy, because it wants to impose additional standards, reacting in an emotional way without taking the time to consult with the representatives of the automobile industry and without a real study of the impact on health and the environment of nitrogen dioxide compared with the effects of carbon monoxide. a hasty resolution, then, which motivated my rejection.
in writing. ‒ this proposal follows the volkswagen scandal. the requirements in this text are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least suitable region in the world for industry; technical standards are a cataplasm on a wooden leg in the fight against air pollution because the eu also encourages more and more flows that generate these emissions. this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the volkswagen scandal revealed that the german company had deliberately reduced the pollutant emissions of its diesel engines by using fraudulent methods. the aim of this motion for a resolution is to call for a new regulation which will require tests in real conditions as soon as possible. under the pretext that the cost of air pollution is exorbitant, our industry and our companies should be subjected to ecological constraints and environmental requirements far greater than those in the united states and in emerging countries. the member states of the union are already faced with unfair international competition, in particular because of the environmental dumping practiced by these countries. environmental protection must not be at the expense of economic development. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ following the volkswagen scandal, the commission has responded by proposing to make the real-world emissions testing of diesel cars more stringent by reducing the difference between the regulatory emission limit which is tested in the laboratory and the value of emissions produced in real driving conditions. this measure, together with the european commission's ambitious new legislative package, shows the commission's determination to do everything possible to increase the reliability of the european automotive sector in terms of compliance with environmental standards. if this objection had been voted by the european parliament, the process of introducing new tests in real driving situations would have been delayed by two years. but we must act quickly. our aim is to reduce emissions of polluting gases while giving the european automobile industry time to adapt to these new conditions and to remain competitive on the international market.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to oppose the european commission's draft decision on vehicle emission limits, in the context of euro 6 european legislation. the introduction of real driving tests, foreseen in this project, is a giant step unique in the world. nowhere else, not even in the united states, are vehicle emissions standards this ambitious. tomorrow, our citizens will breathe cleaner air and live in a less carbon-intensive environment. i therefore oppose this objection, which would be tantamount to postponing the application of the standards for another two years, which i consider to be counterproductive. the rules can be improved, but the protection of citizens cannot wait. the automobile manufacturers are engaged in a global industrial battle in which europe has its champions. the european automotive sector alone accounts for 12.1 million direct and indirect jobs on the continent. given that the role of the european parliament is to ensure that the rules are respected, while ensuring a transitional period which allows our companies to adapt without losing their competitiveness, i welcome the rejection of this objection.
in writing. i rejected this objection to a european commission decision concerning the introduction of thresholds for real driving tests to limit emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. it is certainly regrettable that the emission thresholds proposed by the commission are not ambitious enough. however, it would have been irresponsible to reject and delay the introduction of european legislation aimed at limiting these emissions, in the direction of better environmental protection. i am, however, counting on the european commission to ensure that the emission limit values are adequately strengthened in the coming years. these measures are essential both for the protection of the environment by reducing pollution and for the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, this motion for a resolution seeks to require a new regulation, before 1 april 2016, which would require real-world emissions tests. the cost of air pollution is estimated at 940 billion euros a year, and this shows the dogmatic nature of political ecology. this text, which places the responsibility for emissions on the european industry in crisis, is characterized by a counterproductive normative inflation aimed at concealing all responsibilities on this subject. i am opposed to european industry being made to suffer today from european and global failures to limit pollution, and i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is based on purely ideological considerations and does not support the automobile industry in european countries.
in writing. - i voted against that objection. this avoids the status quo. a status quo that could have set the industry up to continue to perform unscrupulous testing. the challenge was to put an end to the old laboratory tests, which were unreliable and did not reflect the reality of emissions into the atmosphere, and to introduce new tests carried out under real driving conditions. it couldn't be done without transitioning with such strict limits for such different tests! the limit values will be revised over time, in 2018 and then in 2020. the european commission has put forward ambitious proposals in this area.
in writing. the volkswagen scandal exposed the fraud in car emissions. at that february plenary i supported an objection from the european parliament against a decision by the european commission on this subject. the commission wants to allow motor vehicle companies and vehicles to exceed the nitrogen oxide emission limits allowed by the current standards by up to 110%, which is unacceptable. remember, these particles are carcinogenic. the parliament's objection also called on the commission to carry out pollutant emission tests of vehicles under real driving conditions - current tests allow for fraud or are not always representative. i voted in favour of this objection because car pollution is a crucial health and environmental risk which must be effectively controlled and whose standards must be respected. but this objection was rejected by a large number of members from the right and the far right, and i very much regret that.
in writing. ‒ the issue of vehicle emissions has returned to the forefront of european politics with the volkswagen case. the commission's strict standards for actual pollutant emissions do not yet require real driving conditions (rde) tests. the limit values established in a 2007 regulation are reviewed by internal procedures within the commission: the requirement of this motion for a resolution was therefore to request a new regulation, to be submitted by 1 april 2016, to impose tests in real conditions at the earliest. this race to standard is questionable for two reasons: first, europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world. secondly, technical standards are a cataplasm on a wooden leg in the fight against air pollution, because the eu is also increasingly encouraging the flows that generate these emissions. this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106 on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro 6). this will allow emissions tests to be carried out quickly in real driving conditions, which will have a real impact on european air quality. the laboratory tests were not reliable enough. the emission limit values will be revised over time in parallel with the improvement of the tests. the commission has already presented ambitious measures on the vehicle typeapproval process and on the independence of tests, including their financing. that resolution was not adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection which was aimed at challenging the new automobile testing framework proposed by the commission to verify passenger car emissions following the volkswagen scandal. the old test framework was very unreliable. the regulatory emission limits for real driving tests need to be established quickly, as this test procedure is proving to be much more reliable than previous ones.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my colleagues in the epp group against the objection on vehicle emissions calling on the commission to withdraw its draft regulation setting limits for diesel engine emissions, as they are measured under real driving conditions. i welcome the rejection of this objection by the european parliament, which considers that the revision of emission limits over the years will help to improve air quality in europe and the performance of these tests. in addition, this gradual revision will enable our european automotive industry to gradually adapt to the established environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ following the volkswagen scandal, the commission, which was aware of the fraud well before the case broke, was forced to change the methods of vehicle approval and the conditions for pollutant emission tests. but the commission has reversed its own standards, under pressure from the car industry lobby worried about having to play cards on the table on their emissions. it did so by abandoning its own pollution thresholds, particularly for diesel, and by adopting 'guidelines' which permit exceedances of up to twice (more than 110%) the thresholds laid down. the way in which these tolerances were adopted is a scandal, since the commission has used an internal legislative procedure which only allows parliament to oppose this gift to the fraudulent manufacturers. i therefore opposed this double legislative gambit, which has been made at the expense of the anti-pollution standards already adopted, european democracy and the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106 on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles. the volkswagen scandal revealed considerable discrepancies between laboratory and real driving emissions of pollutants for diesel engines. the commission's strict standards for emissions of pollutants do not yet require such tests. the requirement of this resolution is to request a new regulation, to be submitted by 1 april 2016, to mandate real-world testing at the earliest. the first recital refers to the cost of air pollution and justifies the need for increasingly stringent and costly technical standards. these requirements are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of political ecology, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it requires, in a too hasty way, that a new regulation be ready by 1 april 2016 to impose pollution controls on diesel engines in real driving conditions and not in laboratories. i agree with the commission that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the commission's proposals, and i am convinced that the commission will be able to do so.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this text. it follows the volkswagen scandal which revealed the discrepancies between pollutant emissions from laboratory tests and those under real driving conditions. the commission is setting unrealistic and unrealistic emission requirements, unilaterally demanding a political environment that is harmful to european industry, with serious consequences for a sector already in crisis.
in writing. ‒ the revelations about the polluting emissions of volkswagen vehicles and the suspicions that other manufacturers have been subjected to have raised legitimate indignation. a major sector of the european economy, largely supported by the public authorities during the crisis, has knowingly organised massive fraud to circumvent anti-pollution standards. the european commission has taken a crucial decision on this matter, without referring it to the member states or the european parliament: to give in to fraud in the automobile sector. rather than punishing those who do not comply with the prescribed standards, it prefers to raise the maximum level of permitted polluting gases (including nitrous oxide). in the wake of cop 21, the commission, one of the three pillars of its europe 2020 strategy being sustainable growth, is giving in to the car lobby without consulting it. to your relief, the tests will have to be conducted in real driving conditions. however, the arbitrary authorization given to manufacturers to exceed the permitted ceilings by 110% is unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution opposes the adoption of the commission's draft regulation on vehicle emissions under the real driving emission (rde) package. the regulation allows derogations from the euro 6 emission limits for nox (nitrogen oxide), which leads to a lowering of the anti-pollution standards. increasing the nox emission limits for diesel vehicles will have serious consequences for the health of european citizens. air pollution causes more than 400 000 premature deaths a year in the european union and causes significant health costs of between €330 and €940 billion a year. in france, air quality causes more than 42 000 premature deaths and costs between 34 999 and 103 497 million euros per year. no2 emissions (mostly from diesel vehicles) are responsible for more than 7700 deaths a year in france. i am voting for this text, which opposes the harmful plans of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the volkswagen case has brought the issue of vehicle emissions back to the forefront of european politics. the commission's strict standards for actual pollutant emissions do not yet require real driving conditions (rde) tests. internal procedures in the commission are revising the limit values established in a 2007 regulation: the resolution called for a new regulation to be submitted by 1 april 2016 to require testing in real conditions at the earliest. i dispute this race to the standard for two reasons: firstly, europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world. the technical standards also show a contradiction in the fight against air pollution, as the eu is increasingly encouraging the flows that generate these emissions. i note that this text is a unilateral requirement of the political environment, and that is the sole responsibility of european industry, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis. so i objected to this objection.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on emissions from passenger and light commercial vehicles follows on from the volkswagen scandal. the revelations had implicated the company in falsifying its tests on pollutant emissions in the laboratory and in real driving conditions. the text recalls the cost of pollution (estimated at €940 billion per year), which would justify the introduction of ever more stringent standards. however, this text places the cost of this ecological burden on the european industries alone, which are already badly damaged. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the draft regulation on emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. the objection, raised by the far left, the socialists, the greens and the centrists, would have unduly delayed the process initiated by the commission to replace laboratory tests with real driving tests. with this text, europe will become the first continent to have real-world emissions tests, which are much more accurate than laboratory tests, whose theoretical values are still far outdated. these new tests will provide greater visibility and legal certainty for car manufacturers who need to plan for the long term for their investments in emission reduction and environmental protection. they will also provide more reliable information to consumers on the pollution of the vehicles they buy. the regulation provides for new thresholds adapted to real driving. these thresholds will be gradually tightened.
in writing. ‒ in response to revelations of volkswagen's rigged tests, an objection to a change in the rules for measuring car emissions has been lodged. i voted against this objection, which in no way takes account of the new binding text, which everyone already considers to be a great step forward towards more efficient testing and respect for the environment.
in writing. ‒ the commission has decided to raise the emission limits for new cars, particularly diesel cars. it was the end of october, right after the volkswagen scandal. this has made many environmental ngos grin their teeth. in their desire to destroy european diesel know-how, the greens made it their mission to oppose this text and put an objection to the vote. but what they forgot to say is that the volkswagen scandal and the revised thresholds are two totally unrelated matters. the truth is that we made the choice to move towards tests in real driving conditions from 2017, and no longer in the laboratory where emissions and consumption were already lower. i even asked for it in my cars2020 report, back in 2013. it is both a way of regaining the confidence of motorists and of meeting our commitments to reduce vehicle pollution. but to do so, industry needs clarity and stability in legislation to invest in cleaner technologies. that objection was rejected, in a common sense move.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the objection against the european commission's delegated act to increase the tolerance for polluting emissions from cars. parliament could have vetoed the commission's proposal to introduce a margin of tolerance of 2.1 for nitrogen oxide emission thresholds. unfortunately, this objection was not voted by the required majority, which i regret, and the commission's original proposal will therefore be implemented. but now we must look to the future and do everything we can to reduce this margin as quickly as possible, so that eventually it will be 1 if possible by 2020. this is not only a matter of respect for democracy and the european legislator, but also of the quality of air in europe, a major health and environmental issue. the work is also far from over with regard to real-world emissions testing (rde): now that the commission's delegated act has been adopted, i will be particularly vigilant about the proper application of rde tests, which is a prerequisite for the effective entry into force of pollution standards.
in writing. ‒ i am shocked by this vote of the european parliament. european manufacturers have already had almost 10 years to adapt to the new nitrogen oxide (nox) emission standards since parliament voted them in 2007. they have no excuse and parliament should have been tough on the manufacturers who, unlike others, have not invested in high-performance technologies and sustainable jobs. the commission's comitology decision was in clear breach of eu law by allowing manufacturers to exceed the legal nox thresholds by more than twice by 2020. we, the environmentalists, want to save our fellow citizens from respiratory problems rather than indulge the shareholders of the car manufacturers as the majority of the parliament has just decided.
in writing. ‒ i supported the commission's proposal to introduce a compliance factor for new real driving emissions tests. the proposal allows a temporary exceedance of the legal emission limits by 2.1 (exceeding 110%) until 2020 and by 1.5 (50%) after that date - to take account of any initial shortcomings of the new measurement system. this is already a marked improvement on the current situation, which is an overrun of around 400%. the commission also provides for an annual review clause to reduce the second compliance factor to 1 by 2023 at the latest and has committed to activating it systematically. i would also remind you that the vehicle typeapproval system is currently being revised. we will have a say in this and we will ensure that monitoring and the independence of the controls are strengthened. finally, i wanted to avoid the rejection of this text in order to ensure a rapid and realistic reduction in the levels of nitrogen oxide emissions currently emitted under real conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the rejection of the commission's draft regulation on emissions from passenger and commercial vehicles. the draft regulation aims to raise the limit for the emission of nitrogen oxides (nox) from diesel cars by up to 110%. in the context of volkswagen's emissions fraud, such an upward reassessment of the emission thresholds for carcinogenic pollutants is unacceptable. the majority of meps, however, chose to reject this resolution on the grounds that the commission regulation provides for tests under real conditions on vehicles. a paradoxical decision which does not guarantee adequate protection of the health of europeans.
in writing. ‒ when the volkswagen scandal broke a few months ago, the european parliament reacted firmly with a committee of inquiry and an unequivocal condemnation of the fraud orchestrated by the german manufacturer, concealing the real emissions of its vehicles. however, at this session, the right wing, by its vote, gave in to the lobby of the car manufacturers at the expense of the health of its citizens. the commission's proposal to create a right to pollute more was approved by meps, who voted against the objection of the left and environmentalists. the emissions of nitrogen oxides - fine particles that have been shown to be carcinogenic - could be 110% higher under real conditions than the legal emissions in the laboratory. public health justifies our refusal to create a right to pollute ever more. although industrial activity remains a key factor, it must adapt to respect both health and the environment. you can count on me to continue to fight for the preservation of air quality.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution follows the volkswagen scandal. the latter consisted of the discovery of considerable differences between the pollutant emissions in the laboratory and in real driving conditions for volkswagen diesel engines. the commission's strict standards for emissions of pollutants do not yet require such tests. the limit values established in a 2007 regulation are being reviewed by internal procedures within the commission: the requirement of this motion for a resolution is therefore to request a new regulation, to be submitted by 1 april 2016, to impose tests in real conditions at the earliest. these requirements are questionable for two reasons: europe is becoming the least industrially-friendly region in the world; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. this text is therefore a unilateral requirement of the political environment, imposed on european industry alone, with serious consequences for a sector in crisis. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ following the scandal of anti-pollution test fraud in the automotive sector, which primarily concerns the german manufacturer volkswagen, the european commission has proposed a draft regulation to raise the existing greenhouse gas emission standards for light vehicles. manufacturers have until 2020 to comply with the new legal standards for nitrogen oxides emissions, adopted in 2007, and during this period, to be type-approved, cars are allowed to emit up to 2 times more nitrogen oxides (nox) than the future legal standard. the european commission is not content with not punishing car manufacturers, who have had almost 10 years to comply with the standards, but intends to reward them for their bad practices in this area. this so-called resolution of objection tabled by my group, together with the greens and the s&d, alde and efdd groups, was intended to oppose this proposal for a regulation and to ask the commission to review its copy by 1 april 2016. i regret that a majority on the right of the european parliament, led by the fn members, voted against this resolution, which was rejected, thus favouring the interests of the automobile industry.
in writing. ‒ this text deals with the negotiations on the agreement on trade in services (tisa or acs). the aim of the agreement is to promote international trade in services and to create international regulations for such services. the aim of this text is, among other things, to make people believe that these international standards can be created while retaining the right to regulate or that it is possible to allow the personal data of europeans to circulate while protecting them. in addition, in the name of the frontier-free market, this treaty would have serious consequences for the sovereignty of the states. i am deeply opposed to the implementation of this treaty, which is a real danger to french public services and french businesses, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ tisa aims to establish a free trade agreement, similar to tafta (transatlantic free trade agreement) and tpp (trans-pacific free trade agreement), and is more specifically concerned with services. it is currently at the negotiating stage and includes the eu, the usa, norway, switzerland, canada, australia, new zealand, israel and turkey, chile, colombia, costa rica, mexico, panama, paraguay, peru, taiwan, hong kong and south korea and pakistan. the stated aim is to establish global standards for trade in services and a wide free trade area. in reality, it is mainly a question of dismantling part of the national public services by putting them in competition with private service industries. as i am, together with my colleagues from the national front, absolutely opposed to this world without economic frontiers which allows multinational companies to dictate their laws to states, and ultimately to the people, i naturally voted against it.
in writing. ‒ under negotiation, the tisa is a free trade agreement and "world standards" on trade in services, comprising no less than the eu, the usa, norway, switzerland, canada, australia, new zealand, israel, turkey, chile, colombia, costa rica, mexico, panama, paraguay, peru, taiwan, hong kong and south korea, pakistan. the aim is to remove barriers to trade in all services. the agreement therefore aims to prevent governments from introducing regulations if they impede the activities and profits of large service industries. public services will thus be put in competition with private services with the exception of the royal powers: justice, the army, the police, diplomacy. basic services such as health, education or water are considered economic services and may therefore be open to the market. public services will be put in competition with services provided by private companies in the same niche and will therefore be gradually 'dismantled' as the public rail service is today with the sncf. not to mention the lack of privacy protections.
in writing. ‒ i was of course strongly opposed to voting on this report which gives recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the trade in services agreement (tisa). as a reminder, this agreement, which mainly concerns the us and the eu negotiating on behalf of the member states, aims to reduce barriers in the services market - 'barriers' being the deliberately chosen term as a pejorative, but which in reality refers to genuine protective standards. once again, in the name of the frontier-free market and the interests of the all-powerful multinationals, the report advocates, for example, unbridled competition in the telecommunications sector, which, as we know, would be to the detriment of european industries and consumers, and especially french. tisa is also a real danger to french public services and french companies and that is why it is scandalous that the states have no latitude in these negotiations which risk creating precariousness to the detriment of all sectors such as education or health. once again, the logic of the market seems to take precedence over the well-being of citizens, which is why the enf group called for the immediate halt of the tisa negotiations in this vote.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on trade in services (tac) is a free trade treaty which aims to reduce tariffs on services considerably and to harmonise global standards. the main danger of this agreement is that it puts public services, which are carried out in the public interest, in competition with private services which are required to be profitable. with the exception of the royal powers, namely the judiciary, the police and the army, education, health or water will be concerned. even if the member states of the union will benefit from the harmonization of customs duties, since the ones we set are far below those of the other signatory countries, the deregulation of public services will be extremely harmful to the most vulnerable among us who will not have enough money to pay for their children's schooling or to pay for social security. we are not fooled by the so-called red lines which the commission is not supposed to cross, because the european soviet union, destroyer of national identities and jobs, will stop at nothing to satisfy the demands and needs of the big multinationals. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted its position on the international agreement on trade in services. the agreement is being negotiated by 24 parties, including canada, the united states, japan and the european union. together they account for 70% of world trade in services. the union is the world's largest exporter of services. this agreement will benefit companies which will be able to export services more easily. this will generate growth and jobs. parliament stressed the importance of preserving european economic, social and environmental standards in these negotiations. certain services such as audio-visual, health and water must be excluded from this agreement. we must also be sure that our partners are fully reciprocal. we must be in a win-win situation. if we are to open our borders to trade in services, we must ensure that each side respects the same rules in the context of fair competition. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the european parliament's recommendations in the context of the negotiations for the international agreement on trade in services (tisa). the agreement brings together 24 parties (including the eu) and represents a third of the wto's members and 70% of world trade in services. while the revision of the wto general agreement on trade in services (gats) has stalled, due in particular to the blockage of the brics (brazil, russia, india, china), states in favour of strengthening trade in services began negotiations in 2013 on an gats. the european commission is negotiating on behalf of the union and its 28 members. we ask the european commission to exclude public and audiovisual services from liberalisation and guarantees on consumer rights and labour standards. finally, we believe that more transparency and better access for european companies to public contracts in third countries is needed. i supported this report because i believe that this agreement can open up new markets to stimulate our economy and our smes and must preserve our public and audiovisual services.
in writing. with this vote, the european parliament has set out strong guidelines for the european commission for the further negotiations on the agreement on trade in services (tsa). the agreement on trade in services is aimed at strengthening international rules and opening up markets in services such as digital, financial and transport services. i considered it particularly necessary to ensure that the conclusion of this trade agreement actually promotes growth and employment in europe and contributes to the competitiveness of our companies. in this context, it is of course essential to pay particular attention to smes.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution is a clear message to the commission in charge of negotiating the agreement on the european union. the main objective of this agreement is to remove certain barriers to trade, on average 50% additional cost on products of european exporting companies. the agreement on trade in services should help defend and better protect european businesses abroad and support the internationalisation of smes. it must also allow for greater reciprocity in market access, some of our trading partners and wto member states having very protective and exclusive legislation. in this sense, it is important that the european union should have a european business act, modelled on the american business act, to give preference to eu companies on the community market, where necessary. at the same time, it is important that states can continue to protect public health, education and audiovisual services. the commission is therefore not authorised to make commitments on these dossiers. it is on the basis of compliance with all the recommendations set out in this resolution that our parliament will ratify or not the tisa agreement.
in writing. ‒ tisa is less well known than ttip - which provides for greater liberalisation of trade in services by updating the existing multilateral framework and adapting it to the context of the digital revolution ‒ is no less dangerous. its contents are negotiated in the greatest opacity. the report adopted by parliament on wednesday 3 february sets out a number of red lines and protective barriers. tisa cannot encourage tax evasion, social dumping or the lowering of labour standards. personal data must be protected, while public and cultural services must be excluded from this agreement. on the question of public services, i had pushed this strict exclusionary position through the intergroup on public services. i regret, however, that we were not able to agree on the need for positive lists, which are more protective than negative lists. the commission must now hear this vote by the elected members of the european parliament. if this is not the case, parliament has a veto right and may, as a last resort, oppose the adoption by the assembly of the final agreement submitted to it.
in writing. ‒ the tisa treaty, in the name of the principle of free trade and international trade in services, is to abolish what remains of regulation by states. the provisions of the act will put public services in competition with private services, with the exception of the royal authorities (justice, army, police, diplomacy). as the protection of personal data risks being undermined by the growing exchange of information, public services could be dismantled, as was the case with the railway in france. i reject the proliferation of good intentions, which have disastrous consequences, as in the case of the transatlantic treaty, and i have chosen to protect french public services and companies by opposing this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to the conclusion of the trade and services agreement.
in writing. - i voted against mrs reding's report. mrs reding said in a recent interview that tisa would not be used to open up european markets, but to make the others less closed. but, mrs reding, our markets are already the most open in the world, the least protected against unfair competition, especially our public procurement. and unlike you, i do not blame other countries for imposing constraints to protect their interests, i blame the european union for never doing so, in the name of blind belief in "happy globalization". but globalisation is not happy, except for a handful of ultra-privileged people. you have some interesting red lines. but as it is required to comply with the wto general agreement on trade in services (gats), tisa will no longer be restrictive. on the contrary, with the negotiations in geneva deadlocked, tisa aims to circumvent the difficulty and go even further, first at 23 and then at the global level. the gats includes mode 4, a worldwide bolkenstein directive! i also wonder about the link between tisa and the transatlantic agreement. i have the impression that they talk about much the same things, but not quite in the same terms.
in writing. the european union is the world's largest exporter of services. services employ 70% of the labour force and account for 40% of the value of goods exported from europe. the opening up of markets could therefore represent new opportunities, in terms of growth and employment. the european union therefore seems to need tisa. this treaty could be an opportunity to establish better international regulation. however, tisa could be the source of multiple threats. that is why i voted in favour of this report, insisting on the need to draw red lines which the commission should not cross. it must be a sign of greater transparency in the negotiations. i also believe that public and audiovisual services should be totally excluded from the agreement. personal data must be protected and measures to combat social dumping must be provided for. tisa, left to the commission, could take an ultra-liberal turn. it must not impose greater deregulation or financial deregulation which would threaten the rights of workers and consumers. it is now up to the commission to take account of these recommendations.
in writing. ‒ tisa aims to establish a free trade agreement, similar to tafta (transatlantic free trade agreement) and tpp (trans-pacific free trade agreement), and is more specifically concerned with services. it is currently at the negotiating stage and includes the eu, the usa, norway, switzerland, canada, australia, new zealand, israel and turkey, chile, colombia, costa rica, mexico, panama, paraguay, peru, taiwan, hong kong and south korea and pakistan. the stated aim is to establish global standards for trade in services and a wide free trade area. in reality, it is mainly a question of dismantling part of the national public services by putting them in competition with private service industries. as i am, together with my colleagues from the national front, absolutely opposed to this world without economic frontiers which allows multinational companies to dictate their laws to states, and ultimately to the people, i naturally voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague viviane reding on the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations for the agreement on trade in services (tsa). this new agreement on trade in services (tac) brings together 24 parties representing 70% of world trade in services. the general objectives of the agreement are to facilitate market access and strengthen international rules in several areas, such as financial and digital services and transport services. the agreement aims to overcome the difficulties facing the wto and to improve the current agreement, which dates from 1995. nevertheless, we have adopted blue and red lines to ensure that the future agreement is a source of growth for the european union. otherwise i will reject the outcome of the negotiations. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has made a number of recommendations to the commission concerning the negotiations it is conducting with the usa on the agreement on trade in services (tsa). the report recommends, in particular, a number of advances in market access for trade in services, financial regulation and the protection of personal data. as red lines have been clearly defined in the report by my colleague viviane reding, particularly with regard to the interests of consumers and the transparency of negotiations, i voted in favour of this text, which was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague viviane reding on the negotiation of the trade in services agreement (tisa), which is a strong signal to the european commission and aims to strengthen international rules and open up markets in the area of digital, financial and transport services. we, the european parliamentarians, are calling by a very large majority for more transparency, fairer trade rules, reciprocity in the opening up of markets and benefits for more consumers. by seizing these opportunities, we will provide our european businesses with the leverage to boost growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report on the services agreement by vivian reding recognises the dangers of the sba for public services, as well as for the capacity of states to legislate. in doing so, it proposes a set of safeguards to prevent: they shall not prohibit public re-appropriations; they do not undermine existing labour rights, environmental or privacy protections; and, more generally, that states can still legislate and that communities can still manage their public services and procurement. the report is positive and welcomes these additional protections. but the ambition to continue negotiations proves that despite these serious doubts, it is the 'offensive european interests', those of big business, that prevail. as for the safety fencing proposed, it is part of a european conception of law, where competition is the rule and the rest is the exception. this model is hardly a success for european public services and even less a gift for our trading partners. i therefore voted against this report which is selling us a happy globalisation whereas we are being prepared for a bolkestein directive on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on tisa, the free trade agreement and 'global standards' on trade in services. this report is totally hypocritical: the aim of the european parliament seems to be to make people believe that we can create global standards while retaining the right to regulate, to let europeans' private data roam around the world while protecting it, to strip governments of any sovereignty in regulation while promoting democracy, to deregulate public services, to put them in direct competition with private companies while safeguarding them, to swear by the public that we must inform the public while never talking about this treaty in the media. in general, this document seems to follow the same strategy as that of the transatlantic treaty: the european parliament is writing a catalogue of good intentions, theoretical yellow or red lines that will certainly be lightly overrun by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it advocates negotiating the tisa agreement. it is an agreement which will privatise most of france's public services, particularly in the fields of health and education. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. it is therefore a very worrying text, which sells our future to the interests of the united states and the international lobbies.
in writing. ‒ negotiations on the agreement on trade in services (tac), which covers trade in services between some 50 countries, including the 28 eu member states, started in march 2013. they are being conducted on behalf of the union by the european commission at a rapid pace and in conditions which are unfortunately opaque. during these negotiations, parliament, which has no power to amend the text, can, however, make recommendations to the negotiators. the report we have voted on today is therefore crucial to making parliament's voice heard. the latter advocates a great deal of progress in terms of transparency of negotiations, financial regulation and protection of personal data, and calls for the exclusion of public services from the scope of the agreement. the road to an agreement that fully protects european workers and consumers is still long. nevertheless, this text makes recommendations in line with our priorities for the negotiations on the acp. that is why i voted for this one.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. tisa, or acs (trade in services agreement), is a logical follow-up to the infamous ttip. it provides for the establishment of free trade and global standards on trade in services between the eu, the usa and a very large number of other countries (norway, switzerland, canada, australia, new zealand, israel and turkey, chile, colombia, costa rica, mexico, panama, paraguay, peru, taiwan, hong kong and south korea, pakistan). the aim of the agreement is to remove barriers to trade in services, which will prevent governments from introducing regulations. all public services will thus be put on the market, including basic services such as health, education and water. the only services that are not affected are the royal authorities: the judiciary, the army, the police and the diplomatic service. the european parliament is hiding its face and believes that we can create global standards while retaining the right to regulate, that we can let europeans' private data be exchanged all over the planet while protecting it. he seems to believe that we can strip governments of all sovereignty in regulation while promoting democracy!
in writing. ‒ the european commission, on behalf of the 28 eu member states, has been negotiating since 2013 - in an even more opaque manner than the ttip/tafta negotiations - a major agreement on trade in services (acs/tisa) with some 20 other parties. the few documents available to meps are leaked by wikileaks and are not reassuring. they underline the deeply deregulatory aims of the european commission. the negotiations are far from being completed, but parliament was called upon to give its opinion on the content of the discussions, via a progress report. i supported the report put to the vote because, despite the rapporteur's passivity, it draws very clear red lines and calls on the negotiators to make a radical change in approach. this is not to support tisa whose very validity i doubt but to strongly encourage the commission to do things differently. and i will not hesitate to oppose the final agreement if it does not contain the demands of the parliamentarians: increased transparency of negotiations, safeguarding public services, strengthening the right of states to legislate, protecting financial regulation, preventing social dumping, preserving the acquis in the field of data protection, etc.
in writing. ‒ the trade in services agreement (tisa) aims to reduce as much as possible the barriers preventing companies from carrying out their service activities in another country. this is the extension of the general agreement on trade in services (gats) which was established in 1995. the right and the social democrats authorized the opening of these secret negotiations by a vote in the european parliament in 2013. in addition to the united states and the european union (on behalf of its 28 member states), 22 countries are currently involved in the negotiations. according to the wto definition, services concerned are all services in all sectors. the report does, however, propose the setting up of certain safeguards on public and audiovisual services, non-existent services (i.e. future environmental services), social security systems, water and health. but these safeguards are entirely hypocritical, since they are based on the european concept of public services, which advocates systematic competition. i maintain my opposition to this agreement and vote against it.
in writing. ‒ tisa, which aims to establish a free trade agreement, is more specifically about services, as are tafta and tpp. it is currently at the negotiating stage and includes the eu, the usa, norway, switzerland, canada, australia, new zealand, israel and turkey, chile, colombia, costa rica, mexico, panama, paraguay, peru, taiwan, hong kong and south korea and pakistan. the stated aim is to establish global standards for trade in services and a wide free trade area. it is in fact aimed above all at dismantling part of the national public services by putting them in competition with private service industries. as i am absolutely opposed to this world without economic frontiers, which allows multinational companies to dictate their laws to states and ultimately to the people, i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. the adoption of tisa would be a real legal chernobyl for our public services. the aim is to negotiate, in the utmost secrecy, the total liberalisation of services. the stated aim is clearly to strip the state of all economic competence. thus, certain services, such as water, education or health, could be subject to market laws and open to competition. this redding report obviously validates this process without a frown (is that surprising when one knows the pedicure of its rapporteur ?). this agreement, if adopted, would strip governments and people of all their fiscal and regulatory sovereignty, in favour of multinational corporations. it is therefore the counterpart of the transatlantic treaty's tertiary sector. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the negotiations on the services agreement under discussion between the european commission and 23 wto member countries. this text recalls the european parliament's guidelines and red lines in this area, including the essential maintenance of the quality of our standards and public services, which must be safeguarded. the eu is currently the world leader in trade in services but also an already very open market. the negotiations under way should enable our companies, and in particular smes, to expand further on international markets and to protect certain particularly vulnerable sectors of our european economies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the agreement on trade in services, which aim to improve international regulation. the importance of such regulation is all the more emphasized by the very large majority which supported the recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague viviane reding, former commissioner, on the trade in services agreement (tisa). the agreement is currently being negotiated by 23 members of the world trade organisation (wto), including the european union. in a globalised economy, services are becoming increasingly important and are a fundamental part of the economies of eu countries. the eu is the world's largest exporter of services (24% of the world market and a trade surplus of €170 billion), with tens of millions of people working in this sector in europe. this report is perfectly balanced and stresses above all the need for reciprocity and the fact that europe is a fairly open market in services and that now it is the other countries that must open up and use the same rules as we do.
in writing. ‒ in her report, viviane reding makes recommendations to the commission for the negotiation of this treaty, which are all red lines that the commission should not cross. as with all trade negotiations conducted by the commission, the tisa negotiations are characterised by a lack of transparency. this agreement on the liberalization of services between the european union and 22 partners does, however, entail many risks for european services. this resolution of the european parliament does not mean that the european commission is being given a blank check. on the contrary, it calls for greater transparency and for action to be taken against tax evasion and social dumping. the personal data of europeans must also be effectively protected. the european parliament calls for the exclusion of public services and audiovisual services from the scope of the agreement. as for cultural services, he advocated a "cautious approach". the report also calls for the preservation of the legislative capacity of the member states, rejecting the principle of standstill and cliquet clauses. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which does not express an opinion for or against the agreement on trade in services (acs or tisa in english), but which sets out the red lines for the european commission to follow during the negotiations. public services and audiovisual services must be clearly excluded from the future agreement and our cultural diversity must be protected. it is also about preserving the right to regulate of states and our legislation on data protection. but we must also keep the aim of reaching an ambitious agreement and remain aggressive in terms of market access. the european union is a leader in trade in services and the european market is already very open. we must therefore not liberalize further through these negotiations but win reciprocity, because it is essential that our companies have access to the markets of our partners. we will continue to follow these negotiations closely in order to defend the interests of european businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ tisa is, alongside tafta and ceta, the third free trade agreement currently being negotiated by the european commission. parliament decided, by this resolution, to set the red lines for the negotiations. this text provides a solid basis for defending fair trade. the commission now has a mandate from parliament to protect workers and consumers. transparency is required and citizens should have access to all information. tisa will not in any way facilitate social dumping, tax evasion or weaken our social and environmental standards. it will also have to exclude public and cultural services, while guaranteeing the protection of the personal data of our citizens. finally, this agreement will not restrict the right of the states to legislate, either by means of normative cooperation or by means of standstill and catch-up clauses. this resolution increases the pressure on the negotiators. the european parliament will vote on whether to ratify the agreement. if one of our red lines is crossed, tisa will not have my vote!
in writing. ‒ the tisa treaty is strategic. the aim is to deregulate the services market. public services will be put in competition with services offered by private companies in the same niche and will therefore be gradually 'dismantled'. international data flows will make europeans' private data travel all over the world (as it already does). data protection is therefore not a priority for them. audiovisual services, the media and publishing are excluded from the agreement. the eu is already very open in services, and it would be a matter of opening up other markets. the customs duties are 6% in the eu, 15% in canada and japan and 25% in south korea, so the rapporteur has every reason to be optimistic. this document follows the same strategy as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) with no different results. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the european parliament's recommendations on the negotiations of the 'trade in services agreement', better known by its english acronym, the famous tisa. this agreement, like ttip and ceta, aims to increase trade liberalization, in this case in services. it has been negotiated by 50 states, including the european union, since march 2013 and 14 rounds of negotiations have already taken place in the greatest opacity. in a sign that the citizens' mobilization against these agreements is beginning to bear fruit, several amendments by the gue-ngl were adopted: the obligation for the parties to ratify the ilo conventions, the safeguarding of universal services, especially for island regions, and a mechanism for suspending the agreement in the event of violations of labour law. however, in addition to the lack of transparency in the negotiations, many problems remain: insufficient safeguards for public services, lack of oversight of financial services, the impact of the liberalization of the digital economy on data protection not taken into account enough... we in the igc have fought against this agreement, which is a continuation of all-round liberalization for the benefit of multinationals and against the interests of the people. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these resolutions on the strategy on gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015. i am in favour of measures to ensure equal pay, but i am opposed to measures to introduce quotas, particularly in company boards, which are real constraints and do not always reflect the personal aspirations of women. in addition, requests for new proposals for gender equality have crept into the text, while the current texts are not yet being implemented.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the commission to review its strategy on 'equality between men and women'. it deals with gender equality, feminization of boards of directors, women's rights, etc. however, there are some positive aspects to be noted: the need, for example, to take into account the different cultural contexts in different countries and regions, and the respect for the sovereignty of the states in the choice of legislation on wages... nevertheless, it is clear that the general orientation of the document contains a very ideological aim, namely the feminization of all sections of society without regard to the complementarity of the two sexes. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i support actions aimed at ensuring equal pay, in particular, provided that it is a question of aligning women's wages with men's and not the other way around. i am opposed to all quota arrangements, particularly in the boards of directors of companies. these mandatory quota policies turn women into adjustment variables to satisfy administrative constraints and deny their personal skills and aspirations. i finally supported the motion for a resolution which was the most respectful of the principle of subsidiarity and the cultural diversity of the member states, while aiming at fair pay for women: the proposal of the group of the european conservatives and reformists. i voted against the other proposals which call on the commission to propose new measures against gender equality when we are voting against it in every area to the point of absurdity. the promoters of the deadly gender ideology are never far away.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which ignores common sense by asking the commission for new commission proposals on gender equality, even though the current texts on the subject are not being applied. the legislative overriding will not ensure equal treatment in particular in terms of pay. it is also up to the member states to propose solutions, especially since the socio-cultural circumstances in this area differ greatly from one nation to another. i am also opposed to the principle of quotas for women on boards because i believe it is an insult to the ability of women to rise to the highest positions on the basis of their merits and talents alone. women should never be reduced to the status of victims, as is unfortunately the case in some passages of the beijing declaration. however, i welcome the fact that the importance of respecting equality between men and women, taking into account their differences and complementarity, is being recalled.
in writing. - confusing equality with egalitarianism, this motion for a resolution uses absolutely ridiculous data to highlight the inequalities suffered by women: parttime work without even knowing whether it is desired or suffered; the employment rate, lower among women than among men without knowing whether it is explained by the desire of some of them to remain inactive in order to take care of the education of their children. although we are fully in favour of equal treatment in terms of pay, for example, and it is essential to combat all forms of discrimination and violence against women, i voted against this motion for a resolution which does not provide any solution to the problem.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women must become a reality within the european union. we need to put in place an eu strategy for equality between men and women after 2015 that is in line with the principle of subsidiarity. we cannot continue to see cases of discrimination against women. the european union must be a model in this area if it is to be able to export these values worldwide. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this joint motion for a resolution, meps call on the european commission to come up with a legislative proposal on a 'new strategy on gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015'. in defending equality between women and men in society, the epp group tabled a number of amendments to this draft resolution which does not respect the competence of the member states in this area. the epp group defended its proposals in a resolution of its own. having lost our amendments and our resolution in the vote in plenary, i have decided to vote against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. it is worth recalling that the principle of equality between men and women is one of the fundamental values of the european union. nevertheless, the text provides for the commission to be asked for new proposals in this area even before the texts currently in force are properly implemented. i am also opposed to the obligation to apply quotas for women, in this case in the boards of directors. in addition to the fact that they are double-edged, it is not doing women any favors to brand them, at all stages of socio-professional life, with the seal of allegedly positive discrimination. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. the fight against violence against women remains a daily task. at least one in three european women is a victim of violence. this is unacceptable and that is why gender issues deserve better than a mere internal working document of the commission. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is a proper communication, covering a wide range of subjects such as the gender pay gap, work-life balance and the place of women in political and economic decision-making. furthermore, as a socialist i call for zero tolerance for all forms of violence against women. it is in this sense that eu member states must ratify the istanbul convention, the only legal instrument for preventing and combating violence against women in the world. the european commission should also present coherent european legislation, which tackles all forms of violence against women. the eu treaty obliges the commission to act in favour of gender equality. it is up to the commission to act with the utmost diligence on this fundamental issue.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the commission to review its strategy on 'equality between men and women'. it deals with gender equality, feminization of boards of directors, women's rights, etc. however, there are some positive aspects: the need to take account of the different cultural contexts in different countries and regions, respect for the sovereignty of the states in the choice of legislation on wages, etc. nevertheless, it is clear that the general orientation of the document contains a very ideological aim, namely the feminization of all sections of society without regard to the complementarity of the two sexes. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the new strategy on gender equality and women's rights for the period after 2015. i agree with the substance of the text and i consider gender equality to be a major issue that deserves to be taken seriously. however, this resolution is in conflict with commissioner jourova because she published her strategy in the form of an internal document and not a public communication. this reason for form does not, in my view, justify the commission's criticism of this resolution, because i believe that the substance must take precedence.
in writing. ‒ the post-2015 strategy on equality between women and men is a very important objective for the eu. i consider equality between women and men to be a major issue in our society. nevertheless, the various political groups have tried to politicise the issue by attacking commissioner jourova, who is responsible for this strategy. i therefore voted against this resolution, which was completely out of touch with the substance of this important issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the new strategy on equality between women and men and women's rights for the period after 2015 . of course, i am in favour of the principle of equality between men and women. however, it is up to the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that this principle is applied, not the european commission. the report calls for new proposals from the commission on gender equality, without the current texts being implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it calls for new measures on gender equality when it would be more useful to get the measures already voted on implemented. i am also opposed to amendment no 16, tabled by the epp and voted for, which calls for quotas for women on the boards of directors.
in writing. ‒ we voted on several motions for resolutions on the strategy for equality between women and men. these resolutions were different, which is why i supported everything that could ensure equal pay, provided that it was done by adjusting women's pay to men's, and not the other way around. i have, however, opposed all the introduction of quotas, particularly in the boards of directors. these measures are an affront to the dignity of women, who are no longer recognized for their merit or their abilities, but simply for their gender, as a simple adjustment variable!
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the commission to review its strategy on 'equality between men and women'. the recurring themes in question are those of 'gender equality', 'feminisation of boards of directors', 'women's rights', etc. however, the need to take into account the different cultural contexts in different countries and regions and the respect for the sovereignty of states in the choice of wage legislation are interesting aspects to note. it is clear, however, that the general orientation of the document contains a very ideological aim, namely the feminization of all sections of society without regard to the complementarity of the two sexes. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this is a set of motions for resolutions on the strategy to be implemented to achieve gender equality. while i support actions aimed at aligning women's pay with men's (and not the other way around...), i am opposed to the introduction of binding quotas, particularly in company boards. women are not adjustment variables, and should not need quotas to access these bodies, as they deny their personal skills and aspirations. i therefore supported the resolution which was most respectful of the principle of subsidiarity of the member states and of the desire for equal pay.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on this resolution on the new european strategy for equality between men and women. the european left criticises the commission for having published an internal working document on this important issue, rather than a communication as was the case before. on the substance, i support the commission's proposals for a new strategy for gender equality, in particular those aimed at improving the reconciliation of work and family life.
in writing. ‒ commissioner jourova's new post-2015 strategy for equality between men and women had high quality commitments that deserve support. the european left, however, opposed it, to show a formal disagreement to the detriment of an important resolution. i therefore voted against the resolution put forward by the left-wing parties, which is far from the necessary progress on gender equality, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the format, not the substance, seems to be the cause of these many plenary resolutions. once again, i see that some of our left-wing colleagues spend most of their time opposing the principle, instead of talking about the substance of the issues. equality between men and women is a key issue for our societies. and the union must take care of this to prevent any drift, in particular through a strategy. but i repeat: most of the measures to combat gender inequality are taken at the level of national governments. it is a question of subsidiarity. we owe the truth to our fellow citizens, otherwise we will continue to think that europe is doing everything, when it should be concentrating on the areas where it is most effective.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this resolution, in which our assembly calls for a new strategy for women's rights and equality between women and men in europe. the result is bitter. action at european level was not sufficient and the commission's previous strategy for 2010-2015 was not comprehensive enough. we need to give decisive momentum to ensure that the coming years will see significant progress. therefore, new policies for gender equality and women's rights for the period 2016-2020 must be launched to meet the challenges we face. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the rules on the basis of which the commission has decided to impose fines on the sampled companies. let's move it along! is it necessary to recall that gender equality is a fundamental value of the european union, that it must be at the very foundations of our societies and that therefore the necessary political actions must be taken to achieve it?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution put forward by the socialists and democrats, the greens, the european united left and the liberals. while the european union has taken important steps in the past to ensure equality between women and men, this resolution notes that these measures have not always been followed by sufficient effects. the strategy for equality between men and women has not produced enough results in practice to achieve such equality. in its 2016 work programme, however, the commission made no mention of a strategy in this area for the period after 2015, whereas under article 2 of the eu treaty it is obliged to take measures to promote gender equality. the resolution therefore clearly calls on the commission to adopt a new strategy for the period 2016-2020, taking into account the results of the public consultation and the positions of parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ meps voted on several resolutions on the strategy to be implemented to achieve equality between men and women. i support actions aimed at ensuring equal pay, in particular, provided that it is a question of aligning women's wages with men's and not the other way around. i am opposed to all quota arrangements, particularly in the boards of directors of companies. these mandatory quota policies turn women into adjustment variables to satisfy administrative constraints and deny their personal skills and aspirations. i finally voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which was the most respectful of the principle of subsidiarity and the cultural diversity of the member states, while at the same time seeking fair pay for women.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, serbia is undoubtedly destined to become part of the future union, renewed by the people, even if efforts are still needed in the fight against crime. but why, if this report is supposed to be balanced, does it not mention the acts against serbs and the orthodox christian culture committed in the mafia state of kosovo? why do we keep silent about our duty to repent, our shame for our crimes against the serbian people: nato propaganda, false evidence of ethnic cleansing invented by germany to justify the bombing, all the false propaganda to justify the unjustifiable, the economic destruction of a country and its civilian population? why is there no international justice, one-sided, ideological, which even suppresses people so that they do not speak? why should we not tell our lies about kosovo, the mafia state that we europeans have built up on the basis of criminal networks, by dismembering it from serbia? more generally, our enlargement policy is a disgrace to a european alsatian. instead of making all these eastern european countries bridges between east and west, you are making them countries of one side against the other, fractures, ruptures, for the benefit of western domination, in the service of the united states. your enlargement policy is anti-european.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just returned from a mission to croatia, bosnia and serbia and i would like to say that serbia is a great nation, a non-submissive nation, a european nation. the serbian leaders love europe but not the european union. the serbian leaders want europe, but not the europe of radical islamism as practiced in bosnia or in the sanjak. the serbian leaders want europe, but a europe which respects peoples and identities, against the will to separate, as in vojvodina. the serbian leadership wants peace, but without nato's protection. the serbian leaders want european integration, but the serbs do not want to become the new kosovo. let us help this friendly serbian people to become a true european nation.
madam president, while the european union is disintegrating piece by piece (employment, economy, security and living together), which is more than ever the symbol of your bitter failure, you continue to consider the accession of a territorial entity that has no qualifications for integration into the european union. it would seem that you need to be reminded that kosovo is still not recognized as a sovereign state by all the un members, including five member states: spain, cyprus, greece, romania and slovakia. most recently, on 12 november 2015, fifty unesco member countries refused kosovo permanent membership of the institution. perhaps you should start by explaining and demonstrating to the serbs in kosovo - even if you tell us that there have just been new exchanges - victims of real massacres between 1999 and 2004 (235 000 exiles in less than ten years) these famous advantages to the christian and orthodox minorities who are still widely persecuted in this part of the balkans. this weekend, the monastery of visoki dečani was the target of another attempt by islamist terrorists to attack with a weapon of war. i also look forward to hearing from you about the benefits of joining the eu from a territory where trafficking in all forms is rampant and which in 2014 was ranked 110th in the world's most corruption-resistant countries. and finally, with all due respect, when the house burns down, we don't worry about expanding the garden, we worry about the foundation. so i expect you to take responsibility and suspend all prospects... (the president cut the speaker off) (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am of course in agreement with you that these two countries should continue to trade. we are already having difficulty in our own countries of the european union to maintain a relatively calm atmosphere. so i don't see why we should immediately integrate people who haven't found their own peace.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the second round of the presidential elections in haiti has just been postponed once again. the political impasse is a matter of concern, but it would be unwise to over-dramatize it. the building of a stable democracy is not a long, quiet river and the haitian people have come a long way. i was a member of the european union election observation mission on 25 october. i want to thank everyone who came with us. i have seen the distrust of haitians towards the electoral process and the discrediting of political leaders in the country, as evidenced by the very high level of abstentions: more than 70%. it is imperative that the root causes of this discontent be addressed. it is based first on the failure to address the social question in the poorest country on the continent and one of the poorest in the world. however, the country has great potential in agriculture and tourism, among other areas. the water issue must also be addressed. six years after the earthquake, about 80 percent of the 12 million pledged for the reconstruction of the country had been disbursed, but it is enough to travel around port-au-prince and pétionville to realize that much of this aid should not have reached the population. it also feeds mistrust of international actors, whose interference has left traces - i will not name any. helping haitians improve their lives, giving them confidence in the electoral process, in the institutions, is the key to breaking the current impasse. we must continue to follow developments in haiti, especially after 7 february and therefore, a priori, the departure of mr martelly. you can count on us, madam commissioner: dialogue and consensus are the keys, and it is our duty to contribute to this.
the question posed by the blue card. i listened very carefully to your contribution, mr president, and i have a small question. am i to understand that in your opinion it was wrong for us to have contributed to the overthrow of the dictator gaddafi? please clarify, thank you.
mr president, the situation in libya is, among other things, the consequence of the intervention by nicolas sarkozy, under the auspices of nato, supported by some french members of the ps and the former ump, who were elected here. it brought down colonel gaddafi, who alone was able to unify the 150 or so tribes living on libyan soil and make libya the richest country in africa, with a very low unemployment rate. today, the country is in a state of general chaos. the only credible way out would be to support the tribes that oppose the islamic state group. i read an interview with franco roberti, the national prosecutor of the anti-mafia and anti-terrorist directorate in rome. i learned two things from it. firstly, the intelligence services suspect the islamic state group, which is active in iraq, syria and libya, of being involved in smuggling people, which is not surprising. secondly, mr roberti says what we have always denounced: that among the migrants crossing the mediterranean there are terrorists linked to the islamic state group. we know that this group is making progress in libya, and so we can really fear for our safety. we must urgently review our immigration policy, which prevails in this house, and put an end to the departure of illegal boats from libya.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in libya is more than worrying: it promises a dark future for europe if we do not act quickly. the attacks by the islamic state group on the oil terminals east of sirte, the situation in the city of hun in the fezzan, its numerous training camps - all these demonstrate that our enemy is gaining ground every day. there are at least two legitimate reasons for intervening in libya: first, the rapid rise of the islamic state group, and second, the explosion of illegal migration flows. in a country that was destroyed by the intervention against gaddafi, the urgent need is to take these two issues into our own hands and avoid combining them. i see two solutions that need to be worked out together. first, a new european military intervention coordinated with egypt to eliminate the "islamic state" group, but france, already heavily engaged in the middle east and africa, cannot do it alone. secondly, the construction of detention centres and centres for political refugees on libyan territory, as well as at the start of all the migration routes that converge towards the union. in this respect, our states could be strengthened by the use of private security companies acting under contract with the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is where the adventures of mr sarkozy, former president of the french republic, and of the philosopher of the coffee shop, mr bernard henri-lévy, have led us. the dramatic situation of the libyan people and of europe, which is the direct consequence of this adventure in libya, is what we are witnessing. the truth is that our governments are now dealing with terrorists, islamic terrorists on one side or the other, but terrorists nonetheless, and no one wants to talk or continues to talk with the parliament of tobruk, which has part of the key to restoring the situation. in this criminal geopolitical fog we have created, we must send a signal and a mission of meps, especially to mali, to take stock of the situation and not to make any more mistakes about our adversaries and our friends in the region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the incantations and speeches, it is time to act. we know that in order to deal with the chaos in libya, the threats in tunisia and also with the european continent, we will have to take action, and that is what i am asking the european authorities, the council and the high representative to do. first of all, military strikes must be possible as a matter of urgency. to do this, libya must have a rule of law and a government of national unity. we must tell the tobruk parliament to accept the national unity government to allow these military strikes and to fight the islamic state group. and of course we must also fight these mafias, these smugglers who bring death. thirdly, it will also be necessary for economic aid to be given to the libyan population at the initiative of the european union. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, in answer to my colleague's question, it is now necessary to allow the neighbours (egypt, but also algeria, morocco and tunisia) to be involved in a discussion, a balance of power with the parliament of tobruk, in order to find a diplomatic solution and an agreement to set up a government of national unity. it is not a question of whether or not the embargo should be imposed or maintained. we must find a way out, a way out that allows us to fight effectively against the group islamic state .
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank god we are not just discussing ukraine. the latin american countries are called upon to establish privileged relations with the european countries, particularly in the construction of a multipolar world. they must get out of the deadly marxism - indeed, most of them are getting out of it - and also reject the nearly two-century-old monroe doctrine, which makes them a backyard of the united states. today, neo-bolivarism and the globalist left in south america are being swept away or are about to be swept away, as in brazil and chile, in favor of anti-marxist governments. in venezuela, the ballot box has spoken. the marxist government of maduro was badly defeated in the last elections and now it must be punished. our parliament is here to remind us of the basic rules of democracy, despite the displeasure of the gue/ngl, which today, here as elsewhere, is still an admirer of the worst marxist dictatorships.
madam president, if we are meeting here tonight, at an unfortunately late hour - but we are somewhat used to it when it comes to women's rights and gender equality - to discuss violence and sexual harassment against women again, it is not because it is the ritual exercise we do once a year, and rightly so, by organising a solemn debate on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, it is not because there is an oral question, a written statement or a resolution, it is because there has been a landmark news event, which has caused a real shockwave, not only throughout germany but also throughout all european countries. i am referring to the mass violence and sexual harassment that took place in cologne and other german cities on the night of 31 december to 1 january. this was an incredibly new phenomenon that had never occurred on european soil before: mass violence and an extraordinarily violent and aggressive occupation of public space by a group of men. we know that violence against women does not have a religion, a nationality, a skin colour or an origin. sexism, machismo, violence, starting with domestic violence, domestic violence, are not the unfortunate prerogatives of any group. these are the scourges that we regularly denounce with fervour and determination in the many benches of this house, particularly on the occasion of the international day for the elimination of violence against women in november. we cannot avoid, turn a blind eye, or deny the reality of the situation. what happened never happened like this before. we must stand together. it is a french left-wing philosopher who calls on us to stand by her side...
madam president, cologne, düsseldorf, stockholm, stuttgart, zurich, hamburg and so on. i would like to thank you for your work. in each of these cities, hundreds of women were raped, victims of the immoral sexual assault committed by hordes of migrants. in reaction, it must be admitted that the french feminists remained very silent, they were so quick to denounce the patriarchal fascism supposedly carried by the french grammar that they could say to those who denounced these rapes as the consequence of the arrival of migrants, i quote: "pour your racist shit elsewhere". on the other hand, around marine le pen, the patriots of france have spoken. the truth is that the front national is the most feminist of the french parties because it is the only one to speak out against mass immigration. feminists have long believed that the danger to their rights would come dressed in a cassock, that it would seek to prevent them from having an abortion. but in france, no major party is opposed to women's abortion rights. the national front defends this achievement. the danger to women comes from uncontrolled immigration, and the patriots i represent are the best bulwark to protect them from it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that the debate today is about the key role of local and regional authorities in the development of our territories and, above all, about cities as a source of growth and employment, and therefore deals with urban policy. as you know, in 2015, 40 percent of the population of the european union lived in cities. an effective urban policy is a necessity. i would like to draw your attention to the concerns of certain regions of the union which have seen, since the financial crisis, a widening of the development gap between urban and rural areas. this is even more true in the case of the outermost regions, which - as you know - have many handicaps. cohesion policy must therefore retain its original spirit of territorial solidarity, which it is important not to call into question. the complementarity between the different territories is a reality, and this requires a transversal approach, guided by the principle of subsidiarity, both at european level and at the level of each member state.
mr president, i listened carefully to what corina crețu said and i am a little worried because we are at a turning point in the transfer of competence from the member states, because what is ultimately being sought is that the regional authorities replace the member states. in fact, corina crețu admitted this somewhat, because she said that, in terms of welcoming migrants, it was sometimes necessary to help cities against the advice of the member state. we are witnessing a real and unacceptable circumvention of sovereignty. so my question is: what will be the political role of the member states in the future when they are in deep disagreement with a local authority?
author. madam president, on the occasion of the spring of peace in 2011, almost half of the bahraini population took to the streets. they were mostly shiites, an oppressed majority, but their demands were democratic and social. they failed to find an answer, and saudi arabia intervened to restore order. ngos estimate the number of political prisoners at 3,000. this country has the second largest prison population in the arab world. the general population is seeing its freedoms curtailed. the fight against terrorism is also being used here. the country seemed on the way to abolishing the death penalty, but ten death sentences have just been handed down. the loss of nationality is also exploited, with more than 208 cases in a few months. if the bahraini authorities are truly willing to embark on the path of reform, it is time they implemented the 26 recommendations of the independent commission of inquiry and put an end to the practice of torture and the convictions obtained on this basis. progress is judged on the facts and at this point, the least we can say is that in bahrain we are not going in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ serbia is a country whose population has decreased by seven million following the break-up of yugoslavia in the 1990s. whether in bosnia, kosovo or montenegro, serbs are victims of a new map of europe. however, the only default prospect for this regional power is european integration, through which it hopes to regain its status. the country is pursuing the objective of joining the union by 2020, and is being closely monitored by the european commission. it focuses on economic criteria considered as the alpha and omega of the country's future. we see that croatia's accession to the union two and a half years ago was a disaster for its economy. the question of kosovo, whose independence serbia will have to recognise in order to join the union, is an insurmountable obstacle which the report avoids. that is why i opposed this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. serbia still has some work to do in the fight against corruption and in respecting media freedom, but we must bear in mind that any rapprochement with the union will lead to greater stability and prosperity in the whole region. i would also like to make it clear that i am opposed to any enlargement of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which seems to me to be a summation of the arrogance against serbia which the eurocrats intend to place under their guardianship.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which wishes to continue the process of serbia's accession to the european union. certainly serbia has an important place in europe historically, culturally and politically, and i remain convinced that it must be an important voice in the concert of free and sovereign nations. however, this follow-up report once again reveals the arrogance of the european union in seeking to blackmail the nation, particularly by interfering in its internal affairs. it is therefore scandalous that the union should try to impose on serbia a certain model of family policy, or that it should dare to dictate to serbia its conduct in foreign affairs, indicating to it which are the 'good countries' with which it is entitled to have relations, and the 'bad' ones to which it should turn its back - in this particular case, of course, russia. with such relations, the union is once again trying to use the balkan countries as pawns in a chess game against russia, but in the name of atlanticist interests. a contemptuous text that fills all the friends of serbia with shame.
in writing. ‒ the european union is making recommendations on serbia's internal policy, under the pretext that negotiations on its accession are progressing. in other words, this motion for a resolution aims to set out the main political guidelines for the serbian authorities in return for progress in the negotiations for its accession. these included the normalisation of relations with kosovo, the adoption of an atlanticist foreign policy less geared towards russia, the implementation of structural economic reforms in favour of investors, the reception of illegal migrants and the social inclusion of roma, as well as the fight against discrimination against so-called vulnerable people. this motion for a resolution reflects the european union's desire to intervene permanently in the national affairs of both member states and third countries. we are not only opposed to serbia's accession to the union, but we are particularly outraged by the nature of the recommendations made to the serbian government. the serbian people are sovereign and have no way of satisfying the whims of the european commission. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this motion for a resolution, meps recall that enlargement remains a key policy of the union and the union's attachment to the balkan countries. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. the european parliament encourages serbia to maintain a positive dynamic and to step up legislative reforms in the areas of protection of vulnerable groups (e.g. roma), independence of democratic institutions and the judiciary. i voted in favour of this resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. the 2015 follow-up report on serbia highlights the progress made by serbia in the european union accession negotiations. i voted in favour of this text, which encourages serbia in particular to pursue ambitious economic reforms, but also to adopt a constructive approach to the management of the migration crisis. while it is good that the candidate countries are undertaking the necessary reforms in order to come closer to european standards, i would like to reiterate that it is essential that the european union should take a long-term break in its enlargement policy.
in writing. ‒ progress in 2015 in the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo should be welcomed. now belgrade and pristina must move forward in the full and timely implementation of the agreements reached. serbia should therefore continue its reforms, ensuring that the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as the media, is carried out in full independence, free from political interference, and step up efforts to fight corruption and organised crime. the 2015 progress report shows that two years after the launch of accession negotiations with the european union, serbia is still not ready to fulfil its obligations as a member state in most areas. it should also be recalled that the european commission wisely committed itself in 2014 to a pause in enlargement to consolidate what has been achieved between the 28. the french delegation of the alde group therefore chose to abstain on the final vote, in line with the commitments made during the european elections campaign.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the eu-balkan friendships, i take note of the factual elements contained in this resolution concerning the process of serbia's accession to the european union, and in particular the state of progress of the preparatory measures. i welcome a number of positive elements, in particular the efforts to normalise relations with kosovo and the constructive approach of the serbian authorities to the migration crisis. i would like to remind you that i am very attentive to the aspects of democratic acquis and the rule of law. respect for press freedom, respect for minorities, the fight against corruption, depoliticization and the professionalisation of the administration are key points.
in writing. ‒ as is often the case with the balkans, the proposed texts show a flagrant lack of respect for serbia's sovereignty, internal affairs and institutions. it is regrettable that this approach is detrimental to any responsible action on these issues. i am committed to the principle of national sovereignty and therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it stigmatises the serbian people and claims to dictate to them their codes of democratic expression.
in writing. ‒ serbia is a country whose population has decreased by seven million following the break-up of yugoslavia in the 1990s. whether in bosnia, kosovo or montenegro, serbs are victims of a new map of europe. however, the only default prospect for this regional power is european integration, through which it hopes to regain its status. the country is pursuing the objective of joining the union by 2020, and is being closely monitored by the european commission. it focuses on economic criteria considered as the alpha and omega of the country's future. we see that croatia's accession to the union two and a half years ago was a disaster for its economy. the question of kosovo, whose independence serbia will have to recognise in order to join the union, is an insurmountable obstacle which the report avoids. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on serbia welcomes the progress made by the country towards its accession to the european union. the resolution stresses the important steps taken by belgrade to normalise relations with kosovo, but regrets the joint military exercises with russia and calls on serbia to align its foreign policy with that of brussels. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the progress report on serbia, which is a summary of the european union's arrogance towards serbia. the text, like most of the amendments tabled by the traditional political groups, is an interference in the internal and external affairs of a sovereign state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the union is interfering in serbia's internal affairs with unbearable arrogance.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the european union, full of arrogance, gives itself the right to monitor the situation in serbia and to judge it. as always in its reports, the union interferes in serbian affairs by giving 'advice'. it even goes so far as to harm the culture of the country by allowing itself to impose on serbia ideas about family and sexuality that only concern the serbian people! we are opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution welcomes the opening of the accession negotiating chapters and the 'ambitious' economic programme that serbia had to put in place to show its hand. the 'golden rule', privatisation of public enterprises and limitation of public aid: the same neoliberal policies everywhere with the same disastrous effects on the people. serbia is a centerpiece of merkel's economic annexation of europe, notably via the "berlin process" which is to provide a corridor of transport infrastructure to deepen european social dumping. the apprentice is not at the end of his sentence, especially when the eu will ask him to recognize the independence of kosovo (against the very position of the un). since the war, the eu has taken over from nato to judge the country's "performance" in respecting its foreign policy. understand: to break off all relations with russia and develop cooperation with nato. shortly after the dismemberment, unconditional surrender. for these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ serbia is a country with a population of seven million, which has been reduced by the conflicts of the 1990s. wherever they are now citizens, serbs find themselves victims of a new map of europe. yet the only prospect for this regional power is european integration, through which it hopes to regain its rightful place. the country is being closely monitored by the european commission as it pursues the objective of joining the union by 2020. it focuses on economic criteria considered as the alpha and omega of the country's future. i note that when croatia joined the union two and a half years ago, it was a disaster for its economy. finally, the question of kosovo, whose independence serbia will have to recognise in order to join the union, is an insurmountable obstacle which the report avoids. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. this report relates to the 2015 monitoring of serbia. however, this is an alignment of the infringements of its sovereignty through manifest interference. this report is therefore a summary of the community's arrogance towards serbia. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on this follow-up report on serbia. although i welcome the mention of progress made by serbia in many areas, particularly in the normalisation of relations with kosovo, the text contains provisions which are likely to perpetuate the sterile escalation of sanctions between the european union and russia, something i regularly oppose in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ in the context of serbia's integration process, i would like to welcome the reform efforts of the serbian government and recall the basic principles that are ours. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, which sets out the current situation and encourages serbia on its path towards membership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this arrogant report is written with hostile prejudices towards serbia. he has no objectivity and constantly calls for extreme interference in the affairs of this country. the european union's persistence in pursuing foolish policies in the balkans that have become catastrophic is not in doubt. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 follow-up report on serbia. as its name suggests, this report summarises the difficulties and inherent need for progress needed by serbia to move closer to european stability standards. this while highlighting the positive aspects of the country in order to support it in its policy. it's a balanced ratio.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this follow-up report on serbia for 2015. every year, the parliament adopts a report on the candidate countries for eu membership, including serbia, which has been a candidate country since 2010. it should be noted that serbia has a positive dynamic and has undertaken many reforms. i supported this text because it nevertheless recalls that serbia must step up its legislative reforms and ensure their effective implementation, particularly with regard to the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and freedom of expression and the media. the resolution calls on the eu to continue to support the efforts of the parties to the conflict in kosovo and to support the efforts of the parties to the conflict in kosovo to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict.
in writing. ‒ this report is a web of ideology and ideology about kosovo and its future in the union. this region is full of political, economic, identity problems, etc. while 60% of the population is unemployed, the political class from the kla terrorist organization does nothing to improve the lot of the population. in these circumstances it is not surprising that the situation of the serbs is more difficult than ever. the text, however, presents the situation as stabilized and allows for honourable prospects. this denial of reality is first and foremost harmful to the people of kosovo, both albanians and serbs. out of respect for these people who are suffering at the same time from the corruption of the local system and the angelicism of the union, i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i approve of the progress made by kosovo in the process of normalising its relations with serbia, despite the persistent concerns about respect for media freedom and the violent protests that took place in the national assembly. although many challenges remain, i believe we can see that aspiration to become a member of the union leads to greater stability and peace in the western balkans region.
in writing. - what is kosovo? the historic cradle of the serbian nation? a mafia enclave ? what is it ? despite the very dark - but very realistic - picture that this text paints, the eurocrats nevertheless call for the entry of this entity into the european union. is it to hasten his downfall ?
in writing. ‒ i have of course opposed this resolution which irresponsibly continues to consider the accession to the union of a territorial entity not recognized as sovereign by at least five member states of the union and two states of the un security council. more recently, on 12 november 2015, fifty unesco member states refused kosovo permanent membership of the institution. apart from these shortcomings in 'form', it is unthinkable, at a time when the union is destabilised by unrest of all kinds, to integrate into it a territory which has still not responded to the massacres committed against the serb minority between 1999 and 2004, nor to those against the christian and orthodox minorities, again this week victims of an attempted attack. it seems that in the case of kosovo, respect for human rights and the union's fundamental values is not a prerequisite for eu membership. it is not possible to consider decently the integration into the union of an unstable territory, gangrenous with corruption and suspected of being the "european base" of jihadist networks.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) paved the way for kosovo's integration into the union. in order to achieve full integration of kosovo into the european union, the agreement aims to promote the application of european standards on the award of public contracts, intellectual property and the establishment of a free trade area. however, in view of the overwhelming facts which are listed in this text, this motion for a resolution should be a requirement against kosovo's accession to the european union. the report also stresses that respect for human rights, particularly freedom of expression, the elimination of discrimination against women and the fight against criminal, terrorist and islamist networks are not the priority of the local authorities. although we are absolutely opposed to the union's interference in kosovo's affairs, we believe that all these arguments should be enough to convince the european parliamentarians to abandon the idea of its integration and accession. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this motion for a resolution, meps reiterate their commitment to enlargement policy and to the balkan countries. the european parliament highlights areas where the country is lagging behind in terms of reforms, such as the rule of law, freedom of expression and the fight against corruption. i think that this resolution is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the process of european integration of kosovo. in this resolution, parliament recalls the positive impact of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. it is particularly important to support kosovo in the implementation of a strategy to combat terrorism and prevent radicalisation. like the european union, kosovo is affected by the departure of its citizens to the war zones in syria and iraq. this is why it is all the more crucial that the european union commits itself to the stabilisation of kosovo.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union and kosovo will strengthen our ties with this neighbouring country in many areas such as governance, judicial cooperation, consumer protection, intellectual property, energy cooperation and environmental protection. the agreement will also support the balkan country in its process of political and economic reform. seven years after declaring its independence, kosovo is still facing serious economic difficulties, widespread corruption and a large emigration of its population to neighbouring countries. however, it should be remembered that the european commission wisely committed itself in 2014 to a pause in enlargement to consolidate what has been achieved between the 28. this is why, in line with our commitments made during the european elections campaign, the french delegation from the alde group chose to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this resolution provides a reasoned and detailed view of the way forward following the signature on 27 october 2015 of the stabilisation and association agreement between the union and kosovo, the first contractual relationship between the two parties, and its swift ratification by the assembly of kosovo on 2 november 2015. this agreement paves the way for kosovo's integration into the union. it is a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms to enable enhanced cooperation and further trade integration of kosovo. the text describes the various steps to be taken, including the fight against corruption and organised crime and respect for fundamental rights, including those of journalists and the various minorities. i strongly support this text as a member of the eu-balkan friendship, as it will strengthen ties with neighbouring countries and contribute to the stabilisation of the region.
in writing. ‒ it should be remembered that kosovo is not recognised by the un, nor by two of the permanent members of its security council, namely china and russia, nor by four of the eu member states. while this text rightly emphasizes the presence of a mafia gangrenous in kosovo, it at the same time defends its integration into the european union, while practising unacceptable interference in serbian internal affairs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i am opposed to this irresponsible approach which is against the interests of the nations and peoples of europe, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is in favour of kosovo's accession to the european union, which i am radically opposed to.
in writing. ‒ this report is a web of ideology and ideology about kosovo and its future in the union. this region is a combination of all the political, economic, identity and other difficulties. the situation is worse than ever for the serbs. the text, however, presents the situation as stabilized and allows for honourable prospects to be evoked, whereas the denial of reality is first and foremost detrimental to the inhabitants of kosovo, both albanians and serbs. in the light of the facts, but also out of respect for these people who are suffering at the same time from the corruption of the local system and the angelicism of the union, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is rather critical of the progress made by kosovo in the perspective of future membership of the european union. the country has only very weakly strengthened its legislation in the area of freedom of expression and media. while efforts have been made, particularly in the fight against terrorism and relations with its serbian neighbour, the prospect of future accession will require greater conformity of the country's legislation with that of brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the process of european integration of kosovo. the text should be a statement against the entry of the kosovo entity into the european union in view of the appalling facts it mentions. in fact this report preaches for the entry of this entity while making a fairly accurate portrait of mafia slave. we should be consistent and therefore make it clear that kosovo has no place in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it liberalises the issuing of visas to kosovo nationals. it is also failing to advocate the entry of kosovo into the union, even though it recognizes that it is a mafia state!
in writing. ‒ parliament takes a position on the kosovo progress report, which sees the stabilisation and association agreement signed in october as the first formal step towards european integration. it is rather the last step in the creation of a free trade area across the western balkans and yet another economic annexation that puts all the neighbouring countries under the shock of structural adjustments, while at the same time amplifying the social dumping movement in the union. the resolution therefore calls for the restructuring of state-owned enterprises and labour market and university reforms to be accelerated in a territory where a third of the population is unemployed. the eu acquired a faithful follower of its positions, committed to its side against russia and in the international coalition. the presence of the largest american base in europe means that its interests are equally respected. as usual, parliament is pushing for recognition of kosovo's independence by all member states. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report is an ideological statement about kosovo and its future in the union. this region is a combination of all the political, economic, identity and other difficulties. more than half the population is unemployed, and the situation of the serbs is worse than ever under the rule of the political class that emerged from the kla terrorist organization. however, when reading this text, the situation now seems stable and it allows itself to envisage honorable prospects, whereas the denial of reality is first of all harmful to the inhabitants of kosovo, both albanians and serbs. out of respect for these people who are suffering at the same time from the corruption of the local system and the angelicism of the union, i voted against this text.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on kosovo's european integration process is a call for kosovo's accession to the union, even though it paints a very unflattering picture of the country and highlights the role of the mafia which thrives there. it would have been more sensible to propose that the country should not join the union, given its current situation. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the process of european integration in kosovo. the text recalls that the stabilisation and association agreement concluded at the end of 2015 between the union and kosovo will promote reforms in many areas. it will in particular allow for a strengthening of political dialogue, better trade integration and improved relations between the balkan countries. the text also welcomes kosovo's participation in the fight against terrorism and the measures taken to prevent the radicalisation of young people. it calls on the authorities to monitor closely and prevent the mobilisation of foreign fighters and islamic terrorists, which i fully support.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the situation in kosovo highlights the reform efforts made by the country in the context of regional cooperation and the eu accession process. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which gives a fair assessment of the present situation and the challenges ahead.
in writing. ‒ this report is yet another striking example of the european union's blindness to the balkans. kosovo is rightly described as a mafia enclave where trafficking in all kinds of goods is rampant and where certain minorities are mistreated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i am quite clear that i do not agree with such irresponsible positions and i am therefore voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on kosovo. however, this does not mean that i support kosovo's accession to the union. the only thing that is at stake is the preservation of a zone of stability at the union's external borders. this milestone and strategy is all the more important in these difficult times of the influx of migrants. we need stability so that kosovo is a safe country so that kosovar migrants can return home and the country can support the union in controlling the flow of migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo. it should be recalled that the negotiations for the signature of the stabilisation and association agreement between the union and kosovo were concluded in may 2014 and the agreement was initialled in july 2014. this resolution takes stock of the situation. as such, it is crucial that the establishment and proper functioning of the special tribunal and cooperation with it be priorities for the government of kosovo. i supported this resolution because it recalls the reforms that kosovo must pursue: the fight against organised crime, the reform of the judicial system, the fight against criminal networks, the fight against high unemployment, which is close to 30%, and the fight against terrorism. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states and the european union on the status of kosovo. it is essential that the union continues to support the balkan states in their reforms for more democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ as regards foreign policy, the european parliament's reports should be limited to giving a common european position on a particular situation in the world without seeking to take the place of the member states. in this case, it would have been useful, as our group has done, to recall that the western powers, headed by nicolas sarkozy, are primarily responsible for the dramatic situation that this country is currently experiencing, the fall and death of gaddafi having led to chaos, poverty, the explosion of migration flows to europe, and above all the civil war between the tribes and the various islamist factions. it would have been good to have called on the member states of the european union to take real measures to combat trafficking in human beings and to accept that western democracy is not being exported all over the world. the peoples have their own ways of life and their own genius, which it is not for us to change by force, destruction and chaos. i therefore voted against the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ stabilising the political situation in libya is crucial. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a precondition for any effective union intervention to stem the flow of migrants risking their lives crossing the sea to reach europe and to counter the activities of terrorist groups in the region. europe has destabilised the region by removing its leaders, and it must therefore be a major player in the lasting return of peace.
in writing. ‒ this text is only a pretext for giving more power to the european external action service (eeas) and thus entrusting the external policy of the member states to the unelected technocrats of the commission.
in writing. - i rejected this resolution on the situation in libya. the european parliament once again seems to have forgotten the origins of the destabilization of the middle east. it was their offensive in libya that turned this part of the world into a powder keg. after setting the whole area on fire, the european union is dreaming of becoming a firefighter, as we see with the proposals in this resolution to replace the member states with their powers in the field of diplomacy and defence. but the real project is not a 'european power' but, as paragraph 11 of this resolution states, to become the armed arm of nato, and therefore of american interests, despite all geopolitical realism. meps from all political parties, greens, republicans and socialists, agree to sell out france's sovereignty and make the union the nato's lowly soldier, using the libyan conflict to put the recalcitrant states on a leash in the face of such diplomacy.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution accurately describes the current dramatic situation in libya, where heavily armed militias and islamic state cells have taken power since the fall of the gaddafi regime. the current political instability has strengthened criminal, terrorist and islamist networks, which pose an undeniable threat to ethnic and religious minorities. i would also like to point out that the growing presence and influence of islamic fundamentalists in libya is a serious danger for women, whose freedoms have been considerably curtailed. i regret, however, that the text does not mention at any point the heavy responsibility of the european union and some of its member states for the fall of gaddafi's regime, which led to the arrival of the islamists in libya. the european union, like a good fireman, now wants to make up for its mistakes. we believe that it is better for the community to refrain from any diplomatic intervention in view of its foreign policy achievements. only cooperation between the various regional powers and the united nations will be able to bring an end to the chaos in libya and to eradicate islamist fundamentalism once and for all. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution responds to the recent formation of a government of national unity in libya, as the country faces political instability unprecedented since the fall of the gaddafi regime. in a country still marked by many regional and local conflicts, meps welcome the new un-recognised unity government. it is a key step in the implementation of the libyan political agreement and towards the post-revolution transition to build a democratic, stable and prosperous country. i voted in favour of the resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in libya, where chaos has succeeded to chaos. the situation in libya, a hotbed of terrorism and arms trafficking, and where the islamic state group is trying to extend its influence, is particularly serious and worrying. the european union must continue to encourage it in its stabilisation process with a political solution. the member states must commit themselves alongside the european union to supporting the democratic transition in libya.
in writing. ‒ this text provides a clear assessment of the chaotic situation in libya. unfortunately, it is taking advantage of this to give the european union an unjustified international role, at the risk of illegitimately interfering or of becoming an unacceptable substitute for the foreign policy of the member states. as i am committed to the defence of the royal powers which remain with the states, i voted against this bill.
in writing. ‒ as regards foreign policy, the european parliament's reports should be limited to giving a common european position on a particular situation in the world without interfering with the foreign policy of states. in this case, it would have been good, as our group has done, to recall that the western powers, particularly france when it was led by nicolas sarkozy, are primarily responsible for the dramatic situation that this country is currently experiencing, the fall and death of gaddafi having led to chaos, poverty, the explosion of migration flows to europe, and above all the civil war between the tribes and the various islamist factions. it would have been good to have called on the member states of the european union to take real measures to combat trafficking in human beings and to accept that western democracy is not being exported all over the world. the peoples have their own ways of life and their own genius, which it is not for us to change by force, destruction and chaos. i therefore voted against the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in libya. this country, which is at the doorstep of europe, is witnessing the daily arrival of islamist militias which threaten our continent in the context of civil war. it is therefore necessary for the european union to get involved and act in a coordinated manner to push for the establishment of a national unity government and to provide humanitarian aid to the local population.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on the situation in libya. not only does this text intend to use the libyan problem to put the member states' foreign policy on a firm footing, it does not mention any solution to the problem of illegal immigration to europe. the enl group therefore tabled an amendment to stress the importance of concluding readmission agreements with libya as soon as possible. libya is one of the most important transit countries for illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the eu is using the libyan problem to interfere in the foreign policy of the member states.
in writing. ‒ since the fall of gaddafi, libya has become the centre of daesh's main forces outside the middle east and is a bridgehead for daesh on the southern shore of the mediterranean. the resolution condemns the terrorist attacks and expresses concern about the situation of the civilian population. it hypocritically calls on the european union and its member states to confront the spiral of migrants and refugees from north africa, and particularly from libya even as it erects walls to protect itself against them. the resolution also calls for cooperation with nato, which is a destabilising factor in the region. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ as regards foreign policy, the european parliament's reports should be limited to giving a common european position on a particular situation in the world, without interfering with the foreign policy of states. in this case, it would have been good, as our group has done, to recall that the western powers, particularly france when it was governed by nicolas sarkozy, are the first to blame for the dramatic situation that this country is currently experiencing. it would have been sensible to call on the member states of the european union to take real measures to combat trafficking in persons and to accept that western democracy is not exported all over the world. the peoples have their own culture and genius which it is not for us to change by force or by means of inconsistent offensives. that is why i voted against the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. this proposal concerns the situation in libya following the disastrous and scandalous intervention of the west. the current situation is the result of the tribal conflicts that the islamic state thrives on. as a result, the union is subject to both an unprecedented influx of migrants from libya and the threat of terrorism. all of this was obviously foreseeable and had been foretold. in essence, this text lends the union an international role which must be denied when we see the iraqi precedent, where 88% of the union countries defended intervention in iraq. this proposal is therefore just one more pretext for tightening up the external policies of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in libya. the text supports in particular the actions carried out by means of the european union military operation in the southern part of the central mediterranean (eu navfor med operation sophia) to stem the migration crisis and to combat smugglers who exploit the plight of migrants. it also recalled that the success of this operation was directly linked to the return of peace and stability in the country. i particularly welcome the provisions calling for the establishment of a libyan government of national unity to restore the rule of law in libya and to urgently put in place the measures needed to combat illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ the current situation in libya remains extremely worrying, but i would like to express my support for the presidential council and the future government of national unity that the libyan parties will be able to form. i voted in favour of the resolution, which also calls on the member states to act in concert with the european union and the high representative to support the country's political transition.
in writing. ‒ this report contains some accurate considerations on the dramatic situation in libya since the catastrophic intervention decided by nicolas sarkozy and supported by the entire french political class, including françois hollande, with the notable exception of the national front, the only party to have foreseen how the situation would develop. as might be expected, the solution proposed is to give the european union even more power in foreign relations. the people would thus lose even more sovereignty and the member states would be involved in the disastrous decisions that the technocrats in brussels would inevitably take. i am naturally voting against this text, which cannot bring any improvement to the libyan situation, quite the contrary.
in writing. ‒ libya has been plunging into a crisis for some years now, one which is so deep that it is now threatening the union's mediterranean borders. the islamic state group is taking advantage of the chaos of the civil war to establish a foothold in libyan cities. the point is to take this into account as soon as possible. let us step back a little and look at the world at our borders: is it not so chaotic that we want to strengthen the european union in order to defend ourselves better? the strategy of withdrawing and breaking up the union will never bring the power we need to deal with these neighbouring conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on libya which calls on the two parliaments of tripoli and tobruk, which have been fighting for months, to adopt and implement the libyan political agreement. libya is currently going through a complex phase. the resolution calls on tripoli and tobruk to reach an agreement as soon as possible in order to implement the political agreement reached on 7 january and to respond to the terrorist threat posed by the islamic state group. this agreement will also help to protect the country's resources and to restore stability and security throughout the territory, and also in the region. i supported this text which reiterates that the union is committed to supporting the future government of national unity and is ready to provide immediate and substantial support; a package of support measures worth eur 100 million is already available. the resolution also calls for the activation of the third phase of the sophia euronavfor med mission to intensify cooperation between the eu and libya to combat smugglers and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ as international pressure for the formation of a so-called unity government and threats of further military intervention mount, the european parliament took stock of the situation in libya. the least that can be said in view of this resolution is that parliament has no intention of drawing the disastrous consequences of the previous military intervention. not only does parliament not say a word in this resolution about the responsibilities of the french and british authorities in the libyan chaos, but, worse still, it welcomes nato's action in the region and calls for even greater military action under the guise of fighting terrorism. in reality, the message is clear: we must "secure resources" and allow the country to serve as a base for military actions in the region as in the past, and even more easily. the respect for humanitarian law and human rights and therefore the interests of the libyan people seem to be of secondary importance. i refuse to support such a logic. the military interventions of the so-called western powers have done enough damage. it is time to implement other logics. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution in question uses the expression 'islands of the european union' and is based on article 174 of the tfeu with the aim of creating a homogeneous group which would include all island regions as is already the case with the group of mountainous regions. the text is therefore part of a federalist approach which we cannot support. that is why i voted against it, together with my colleagues from the national front.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution refers to 'the islands of the european union' and uses article 174 of the tfeu to create a homogeneous grouping of all 'island regions', like the 'mountain regions'. clearly, this text validates the federalist project of the eu and i therefore opposed it.
in writing. ‒ in the name of the specificity of our national territories, and more particularly of our islands, i have obviously rejected this indecent motion for a resolution, which is part of nothing but the european federalist project. the resolution thus proposes an outrageous standardisation, as in the negation of the difference between islands and states and islands and regions. that is why i supported the amendments which, in particular, stressed the importance of maintaining a tax regime favourable to certain islands which are handicapped by their geographical situation or which are subject to economic adjustment programmes. it is necessary to fight constantly to recall the national framework for the sustainable development of island regions, against the attempt to 'regionalize' our territories, which would serve to eliminate the state as the intermediary between the union and the territories.
in writing. ‒ island regions face additional costs, particularly in terms of energy and raw materials supply. it is also true that islands are more vulnerable to the main challenges facing member states, namely unbridled globalisation, climate change and the massive influx of migrants into the mediterranean. although we share the same view, our solutions differ from those proposed in this motion for a resolution. it is the sole responsibility of the member states, in cooperation with local authorities, to determine the sustainable development strategies of these regions and the infrastructure projects eligible for european structural funds. we also formally object to the diversion of european funds to the reception of illegal migrants. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the territory of the european union includes many islands located on the periphery of certain member states. the insularity condition requires particular attention from the union. the geographical remoteness and, in some cases, the difficulty of access can have negative economic and social consequences. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european commission to pay more attention to the islands.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution proposes a series of complementary indicators to better reflect the specificities of island regions in the criteria for funding european programmes. although article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that island territories suffer from permanent handicaps requiring special attention, the financial programming for 2014-2020 does not provide for specific funding for these regions, but only for the possibility to modulate co-financing rates for certain types of islands. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of regional competitiveness indices, which measure the economic and social vulnerability of these regions. i have supported this resolution because i believe that island regions suffer from permanent and particular natural handicaps which hamper their development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on island regions. it is necessary to take account of the difficulties, particularly economic ones, connected with the geographical particularities of island regions. i am particularly in favour of strengthening transport links to improve the connectivity of these island regions with the rest of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the specific situation of the islands. the resolution stresses the specific nature of islands and the need for specific measures to respond to the challenges they face: climate change, connectivity, migration. the commission is also proposing to publish a white paper on island development, based on good practice and involving local, regional and national authorities. a genuine european strategic framework for the islands will thus be established.
in writing. ‒ despite the laudable amendments defending taxation adapted to island regions, this motion for a resolution validates the federalist project of the european union. for example, it rejects the distinction between island states and island regions. it also creates a homogeneous category for island regions. i am opposed to the federalist approach which opposes the nation state and the necessary sovereignty attached to it, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution in question uses the expression 'islands of the european union' and is based on article 174 of the feu treaty with the aim of creating a homogeneous group which would include all island regions, as is already the case with the group of mountainous regions. the text is therefore part of a federalist approach which we cannot support. that is why i voted against it, together with my colleagues from the national front.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on island regions. this motion for a resolution speaks of 'the islands of the european union' and uses article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to create a homogeneous grouping of all island regions, like the mountainous regions. this motion for a resolution is an attempt to validate the federalist project of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it unveils the union's federalist project by creating a common framework for what it calls the 'european union islands', when in fact they are islands under the sovereignty of their respective states. corsica and martinique, to take only two examples, are french islands and not 'union islands'!
in writing. - i voted against this text. the motion for a resolution refers to 'the islands of the european union' and uses article 174 of the treaty on european union to create a homogeneous grouping of all island regions, as it had already done for mountainous regions. this motion for a resolution validates the federalist project of the union and amalgamates all the regions, thus forgetting their particularities and specific needs.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for better consideration of the particularities of island regions, both the geographical, natural and demographic handicaps of islands and their inherent potential. the islands are facades open to the world, particularly in the case of france. with 11 million km2 of sea area, france is the second largest maritime territory in the world. i proposed, particularly at the sea summit, that this new frontier should become a major axis for the ecological recovery of activity. the resolution goes in this direction: development of alternative energy sources (marine, wind and solar), local markets which are indispensable because of their insularity, new sea routes and sustainable fisheries management. many islands have special tax schemes to compensate for their natural and demographic handicaps. my colleague nikolaos chountis called for the maintenance of these schemes, particularly in the member states, such as greece, which are the subject of memoranda. i am very sorry that his amendment was not adopted. support for sustainable activity is once again running up against eu austerity. i shall vote for the text which is in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution in question uses the expression 'islands of the european union' and is based on article 174 of the feu treaty with the aim of creating a homogeneous group which would include all island regions, as is already the case with the group of mountainous regions. i cannot therefore accept the federalist nature of this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on island regions adds another stone to the euro-federalist edifice. it refers to 'islands of the european union' (whereas these are islands belonging to states...) and uses article 174 of the feu treaty to create a homogeneous grouping of all island regions, similar to the grouping of mountain regions. i therefore voted against this text, because the only framework for the sustainable development of island regions must remain the national framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the specific situation of islands in the european union. this text highlights the handicaps but also the natural advantages peculiar to island regions. it called for this to be taken into account and for measures, including fiscal measures, to be taken to develop activities in the fields of the environment and connectivity.
in writing. ‒ the specificities of the islands justify, in my view, the use of specific measures to respond as precisely as possible to the challenges they face. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to create a special category for islands which are located on the territory of the member states of the european union. it is therefore a further step towards federalism and the destruction of nations in favour of a regionalization decided without the approval of the peoples, or even against their will (like the treaty of lisbon, which overrides the will of the french and the dutch). it is not sensible to create an island category as if ireland, the isle of sein, malta, the balearic islands, great britain and corsica were in identical situations. i therefore vote against this harmful and unwise text.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the resolution on island regions, which did not raise any particular difficulties. it emphasises the specificities of islands and the need to provide for specific measures to respond to the challenges they face (climate change, connectivity, migration, etc.). it should be remembered that the european union, thanks to france, has outposts all over the world. this gives us a force of representativeness and is a showcase in remote areas. the resolution also proposes a european year of islands and mountains.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for a strengthening of governance, particularly at european level, in the management of the european structural funds. it also welcomed the adoption of an eu urban calendar, although urban policy was not part of its remit. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the strengthening of multi-level governance in the management of the structural funds and welcomes the adoption of an eu 'urban agenda' whereas no article in the treaties enshrines any eu competence in urban policy. i voted against this further step towards federalisation of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the european federalist project. so i turned her down. the text is part of a short-circuit dynamic of the states by strengthening governance at local level. brussels is thus seeking to make the regions the armed arm of its decentralised power. i am deeply attached to our regions and territories, but their responsibilities cannot and must not replace the role of the strategic state, in the interests of territorial cohesion and equality. the text is also nothing but self-congratulation, and it is also illegitimate, on the adoption of an eu urban agenda, even though no article sets out any competence of the union in urban policy.
in writing. ‒ in this motion for a resolution, the european union reiterates its willingness to strengthen its links with local and regional authorities at the expense of the member states. we are absolutely opposed to the interference of the european institutions in national affairs and to a federalisation of europe. the resolution also calls for the strengthening of multi-level governance in the management of the structural funds and welcomes the adoption of an eu urban agenda, whereas no article provides for any eu competence in urban policies. as usual, the commission is trying to give itself prerogatives which it does not have. so it is our duty to remind him of that. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the involvement of local and regional authorities in the management of the european structural and investment funds is very important. these actors are closer to the european citizens and are directly confronted with the realities on the ground. the structural funds are used directly by the citizens. they exist both to correct the inequalities that persist between regions within the union, but also to help european citizens to implement their projects. it is therefore important to involve the different levels of power in the management of these funds. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, meps make a series of recommendations to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds (esi funds). in particular, they propose to increase synergies and complementarities between the esi funds and other union programmes, in which local and regional authorities can play a useful role in achieving the objectives of cohesion policy. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. i voted in favour of this resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. the european structural and investment funds are a fundamental instrument of the european union's cohesion policy. this resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds (esif) highlights their key role in implementing european strategies. to optimise the use of these funds, synergies must be created and local and regional authorities must provide an appropriate framework for their implementation.
in writing. ‒ as a former regional president, i can only welcome the adoption of such a report, which recalls the fundamentals of cohesion policy and the necessary closeness to be established between managers of european funds, project promoters and citizens. local authorities are directly involved in many of the issues surrounding current regional policy programming: administrative simplification, increased use of financial instruments, the notion of partnership and the deepening of multi-level governance. they are better able to identify, inform and drive forward the union's strategic policies. the report highlights urban areas as a priority for the next dutch presidency. they must urgently address the challenges of globalisation, climate change, energy security and migration flows. without undermining this reality, i would like to draw attention to the specific realities of rural and remote areas, which face the challenges of accessibility and attractiveness. i have always advocated a balanced approach to territories. we must think of the link between town and country rather than seeking to segment public policies.
in writing. ‒ since no article enshrines any competence of the european union in urban policy, i do not support this motion for a resolution, which provides for a strengthening of multi-level governance in the management of the structural funds and welcomes the adoption of an eu urban agenda. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for a strengthening of governance, particularly at european level, in the management of the structural funds. it also welcomed the adoption of an eu urban calendar, although urban policy was not part of its remit. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds. the text calls for the strengthening of multi-level governance in the management of the structural funds and welcomes the adoption of an eu urban agenda, whereas no article sets out any eu competence in urban policies. this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it welcomes the adoption of an eu urban agenda, whereas no article in the treaties enshrines any competence of the union in urban policy. the union is really meddling in everything!
in writing. ‒ while the implementation of the 2014-2020 operational programmes has just started, this text provides an update on the role of local and regional authorities (lras) in the european structural and investment funds (esi funds). in order to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion within the european union, the intervention of the esi funds must be geared as closely as possible to the needs of citizens and businesses. in fact, the lags are directly involved in many of the issues surrounding the current programming of regional policy: territorial vision of development, administrative simplification, deepening of multi-level governance. while the resolution emphasises the central role of cities, which receive 5% of the esi funds, it nevertheless shows balance on the question of equal access to the funds between the territories. it is important for the regions, especially the outermost regions, which have seen their investment capacity seriously reduced, to remember that cohesion policy must retain its primary spirit of territorial solidarity. this text is a constructive contribution to the debate on the place to be given to lags in the definition and management of the esi funds. so i'm giving him my support.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal. it calls for a strengthening of multi-level governance in the management of the structural funds, which means more controls by the union. it also welcomes the adoption of an eu urban agenda, although no article in the treaty gives the union any competence in urban policy! as is often the case, this is just another way of undermining the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this resolution recalls that, in accordance with the common provisions regulation (cpr) of the current programming period (2014-2020), local and regional authorities (lras) have seen their influence increased. it notes, however, that although lags have been consulted in most cases during the negotiations on partnership agreements and operational programmes, their participation is uneven across regions and states. it therefore calls on the commission to ensure that the administrative capacity of local and regional authorities is strengthened. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution would like to strengthen governance in the management of the structural funds, particularly at european level. it also welcomes the adoption of an eu urban calendar, although urban policy is not one of its competences. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds calls for the strengthening of multi-level governance in the management of the structural funds and welcomes the adoption of an eu urban agenda, whereas the union does not have the positive right of competence in urban policy in any of its articles. i therefore voted against this text, which encroaches on the union's competences and which seems to me to be contrary to the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds. this text underlines the importance of fully involving cities and regions in the preparation and implementation of cohesion policy, the aim of which is to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between member states and regions. one of its provisions encourages the use of new instruments available: integrated territorial investment (iti) and local development led by local actors (lda).
in writing. ‒ local and regional authorities have a huge role to play in the implementation of cohesion policy. as the president-in-office of the provence-alpes-côte d'azur region, i know the importance of these authorities. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, which stresses this fundamental role and provides clarification as to the actual means at the disposal of these authorities.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european union is seeking to give itself powers in urban policy, which it does not have. the governance levels of the european structural and investment funds are being increased, whereas the only way to conduct coherent and effective policies, at least in france, would be to have a long-term, global vision at national level. i therefore vote against this text without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ the eu's cohesion policy provides a good example of multi-level governance, following a bottom-up approach, where local and regional authorities in their dealings with the esi funds strike the right balance between the union's objective of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and the impact that european policies will have on their territory. it is for this kind of approach that i support this resolution on the role of the authorities, which is essential for the absorption of the available european envelopes.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims, through a plurality of proposals, to support the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds. cohesion policy is the main instrument of investment directed towards the territories and the population of the union in order to support their development. local and regional authorities play a key role in its design and implementation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest countries in the world. we therefore ask, among other things, that the commission ensure that these authorities are given support in improving their capacity. the commission should also promote, through the necessary measures, a strengthening of the role of these actors in the management and implementation of the structural and investment funds through partnership agreements and operational programmes. we also stress the qualitative leap made by initiatives such as the participatory local development initiative, which is now eligible for erdf and esf funding. the involvement of local and regional authorities in the implementation of union strategies is an asset that must be valued; that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which underlines the role of cities and regions in the preparation and implementation of cohesion policy. this text refers to the principle of partnership in the preparation of operational programmes, emphasises multi-level governance, and refers to the new instruments of cohesion policy, namely integrated territorial investment (iti) and local development led by local actors (dlal).
in writing. ‒ the vote on the joint motion for a resolution was postponed to the next plenary session.
in writing. i voted against this resolution, which is a very angelic one: is there not some bad faith hidden in this catalogue of good feelings? i am in any case opposed to the commission taking advantage of the conflicts which are shaking the planet - and to the emergence of which it has often contributed through its irresponsibility - to arrogate new powers to itself and claim a legitimacy which it does not have in dealing with such serious international problems.
in writing. ‒ the meps who voted in favour of this resolution have apparently still not understood that political problems are not resolved by declarations of good feelings. although it has the good sense to question the strikes carried out by saudi arabia, the same is true of this resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, which i have therefore had to reject. the tribal conflicts and general insecurity in the country will not be resolved because the european union is turning a blind eye. it must leave the united nations to play its part in the peace process. the disastrous humanitarian situation 153 dispensaries which previously provided food to over 450 000 children in danger have closed their doors, as have 158 outpatient clinics which provided essential care to almost half a million children under the age of five must not provide the union with a pretext to override the prerogatives of the member states in their role on the international stage and brussels has no legitimacy to impose its arms export policy on the sovereign nations of europe.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution seeks to take stock of the current situation in yemen, where community tensions have turned into a highly complex ethnic conflict which has led to a serious humanitarian crisis now affecting almost the entire population. this text is nothing more or less than a series of platitudes concerning an extremely complex conflict involving certain regional powers such as saudi arabia and iran. although we agree that these states, in close cooperation with the united nations, are trying to calm the situation in yemen, we consider that the european union has no legitimacy to intervene in this matter. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution responds to the humanitarian situation in yemen, where humanitarian organisations estimate that 21 million yemenis (82% of the total population) are in need of humanitarian assistance and 14 million of them are food insecure or in need of health care. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that international cooperation is necessary to respond to this crisis.
in writing. ‒ this text contains many good intentions, but shows a lack of understanding of the ins and outs of the situation in yemen. it also tends to impose the union's arms policy on the states and to give the union an unjustified international role. finally, there is a lack of discernment in relation to saudi arabia, whose role is controversial. for these reasons i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this motion for a resolution has been postponed until the next plenary session.
in writing. ‒ while the international community is sometimes very concerned about not supporting regimes that oppress their people (such as in syria) or that violate international law, the complicit silence of european states in the face of saudi arabia's action in yemen can no longer last. the massive series of operations (decisive storm and restoring hope) by regional countries led by saudi arabia and supported by us intelligence led to continued violations of international law and to the repeated bombing of yemeni civilians by the coalition. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, which recalls that the transition process developed by the united nations has not been completed and that today 21 million yemenis, or 82% of the population, are in need of humanitarian aid. the resolution also calls for the imposition of necessary sanctions against states, namely saudi arabia, which are not respecting international conventions in their actions in yemen.
in writing. ‒ the resolution condemns the humanitarian crisis in yemen following the military intervention led by saudi arabia to support president hadi and counter the houthi rebellion. according to the humanitarian needs outlook 2016 (hno) released in november 2015, 21.2 million people (82% of the yemeni population) are in need of humanitarian assistance. the resolution stresses the need to coordinate humanitarian action under the auspices of the united nations to put an end to this situation. she could have added that the eu and in particular some of its member states must stop supporting saudi arabia in its abuses in yemen. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this motion for a resolution has been postponed until the next plenary session.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on yemen is a perfect illustration of the europeanist spirit which prevails on the benches of the european right and the european left. it calls on the union to impose its policy on arms exports on the member states, even though the union should have no competence in defence matters. this is an increasingly strong desire to empty the states of their sovereignty. the text also has a pro-saudi (and therefore american) bias. this resolution is full of good feelings; its authors have no idea of the background of the yemeni case. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution illustrates the european union's uncommitted position vis-à-vis saudi arabia and its war in yemen. the text is content with empty good feelings and carefully avoids going to examine the reality of the situation and the role of each of the actors. it does, of course, contain some proposals to give the european union powers in foreign policy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the postponement of the vote on the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. a delegation from parliament, chaired by mr brok, is due to visit saudi arabia this week. in this context, negotiations to reach a common text are still in their early stages. we shall wait for the conclusions of this delegation to know more about the situation.
in writing. ‒ while i share with this text the same repugnance towards the islamic state and its appalling crimes, i do wonder about the political use made of it by the european union to give itself a diplomatic legitimacy that it does not have. so i cannot support the idea of creating a "permanent special representative for freedom of religion or belief" in the eu institutions, nor can i accept the eu ordering "syria and iraq to accept the jurisdiction of the international court of justice" which is clearly applying a contemporary western view of law to countries with a very different cultural and civilizational perspective. finally, it is quite clear that the european parliament's resolutions will not solve anything in the middle east. i note in this connection that, apart from the petitions on principle, not a word has been said about the strategy to be followed to take back the territories controlled by isis, whereas it is obvious that the western powers should reconsider their position towards the syrian, russian and iranian governments and distance themselves from turkey, saudi arabia and qatar. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ if we must support the minorities martyred by the terrorists of the islamic state, born of the chaos generated by western interventions in the region, i refuse that the commission takes advantage of this to arrogate new powers and claim a legitimacy that it does not have to deal with such serious international problems.
in writing. ‒ however, with the situation of christians in the east and the real religious purge they are suffering at the hands of the so-called 'islamic state' at heart, i have preferred to abstain on this resolution. i would remind you that i have tried on many occasions to alert the european authorities to the plight of christians in the east and to the destruction of cultural and religious objects, as in palmyra. however, this resolution seems to be taking the view that the misery of this real human tragedy should be used to strengthen the european union's diplomatic powers. however, as events have shown, the only viable solution to the peace process remains in the hands of sovereign states; russia's diplomacy with the syrian government is a good example. the european union should not replace states, especially when it has partially contributed to creating or worsening the conflicts that led to the rise of daesh. as many crises have shown, especially the migrant crisis, only nations are able to respond in the best possible way to the extreme emergency for the good of the population and the resolution of geopolitical conflicts.
in writing. ‒ the resolution seeks to condemn the islamic state group for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed against ethnic and religious minorities. the islamic state group and its members are responsible for acts of torture, mass killings, rape and trafficking in human beings, particularly against women; the perpetrators of these crimes will have to answer to the international criminal court. we obviously share the outrage and emotion aroused by such barbaric acts. nevertheless, we would like to point out the responsibility of the european institutions and certain member states for the political destabilisation of the middle east, which has led to the strengthening of the islamic fundamentalists. this is why we do not give the european union any legitimacy to eradicate the islamic state group. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ the systematic slaughter of christians in iraq and syria must be considered genocide. in this region, religious minorities and christians face daily atrocities by the "islamic state" group. it is clear that the main objective of this group is to systematically destroy these religious minorities and their culture. it is our duty as europeans to help these minorities and to protect them from this scourge. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for action to be taken to have the united nations recognize the genocide perpetrated by the islamic state group against christians, yazidis and other religious and ethnic minorities.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the european commission to take urgent action to counter the systematic slaughter of religious minorities by the islamic state group and calls on the union to recognise these atrocities. the islamic state group is accused of violating international human rights and humanitarian law and of perpetrating widespread violence against members of minority groups, including christians and yazidis, in iraq and syria. i supported this resolution because i considered such atrocities and attacks on religious minorities unacceptable.
in writing. the barbaric and systematic massacres of religious minorities by the 'islamic state' group must be condemned in the strongest terms by the european union and its member states. the barbarity of this group reminds us of the urgency of actively combating terrorism and the radicalisation which leads european citizens to commit such atrocities. i shall continue to be strongly committed to the defence of the christians of the east. the european union must take the strongest possible action to guarantee the rights of religious minorities and condemn these massacres.
in writing. ‒ isil/daesh has perpetrated systematic and widespread violence and violations of international human rights and humanitarian law against members of minority groups, including christians and yazidis, in iraq and syria. that is why i voted for the resolution on the systematic slaughter of religious minorities by the so-called 'isil/daesh' group. it is essential that these flagrant violations of human rights, which in my view amount to crimes against humanity, be punished under the rome statute of the international criminal court. i also want these acts to be recognized as genocide by the un security council. finally, through this vote i believe that there is an urgent need to provide protection and assistance to all those who are targeted by the isil/daesh group. this assistance could also be part of the response to the major challenge of providing temporary protection for the millions of refugees affected by the conflicts in syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ while the preservation of minorities is a worthy objective, the union must not exploit massacres to gain new diplomatic powers or international legitimacy to which it has no claim. although the findings are correct, this text undermines the sovereignty of states and is unfortunately not the appropriate response to the situation; that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ on thursday 4 february, i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the international community to take action to counter the systematic slaughter of religious minorities by the islamic state (is) group, or daesh. the text closes the debate on 20 january with federica mogherini, the eu's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, during which many meps called for measures to protect all religious groups and minorities from attacks by is/daesh. it is urgent that all measures be taken to protect christians who share our values and who are suffering terrible persecution everywhere. with 7,100 christians killed worldwide in 2015 for reasons related to their faith, it is more than necessary to forcefully remind europe of its christian roots.
in writing. ‒ while i share with this text the same repugnance towards the islamic state and its appalling crimes, i do wonder about the political use made of it by the european union to give itself a diplomatic legitimacy that it does not have. so i cannot support the idea of creating a "permanent special representative for freedom of religion or belief" in the eu institutions, nor can i accept the eu ordering "syria and iraq to accept the jurisdiction of the international court of justice" which is clearly applying a contemporary western view of law to countries with a very different cultural and civilizational perspective. finally, it is quite clear that the european parliament's resolutions will not solve anything in the middle east. i note in this connection that, apart from the petitions on principle, not a word has been said about the strategy to be followed to take back the territories controlled by isis, whereas it is obvious that the western powers should reconsider their position towards the syrian, russian and iranian governments and distance themselves from turkey, saudi arabia and qatar. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very important resolution which calls on the international community to take urgent action in the face of the systematic massacre of religious and ethnic minorities by the islamic state (is) group in iraq and syria. through this resolution, which i co-signed, we call on the international community to take clear action to protect the religious minorities of this group. the european union must strongly condemn these human rights violations and urge the un security council to declare these acts as genocide. communities are disappearing from this region and it is our duty to protect them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my epp colleague lars adaktusson on the systematic slaughter of religious minorities by the islamic state group, calling on the international community to take urgent measures to protect religious minorities from the islamic state organisation, including persecuted eastern christians. we wanted to recall that these human rights violations constitute, according to the un, war crimes and crimes against humanity, and in some cases genocide.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the mass crimes committed by daesh against religious images followed the debate i had addressed in the previous parliamentary session. the resolution strongly condemns the acts of genocide committed against religious minorities under the control of daesh and calls for the international criminal court to be seized and for international protection for these minorities, including by military means. as in previous resolutions, it condemns all forms of financing and trafficking which can feed daesh, including archaeological looting, which destroys existing sites and feeds the coffers of this terrorist organisation. unfortunately, the text does not mention the gulf states, the main suppliers of funds and equipment, and merely uses a complicated formula calling on them to fulfil their international obligations and to stop these practices. i regret that in rightly denouncing the massacres of religious minorities, the abuses against the sunni population are not also emphasized. however, the condemnation of these atrocities must be unequivocal and that is why i supported this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the motion for a resolution on the systematic slaughter of religious minorities by the islamic state group. if the preservation of minorities, religious and otherwise, is a laudable objective, the european union should not use this to acquire new powers and international legitimacy, which it cannot claim.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the international community to provide protection and assistance, including military assistance, in accordance with international law to the people affected by daesh and other terrorist organisations in the middle east and supports the ongoing talks in geneva. however, without a un mandate, the unilateral military operation by france and its nato allies without coordination with the syrian army and kurdish forces in northern syria has not led to any concrete military or geopolitical results. the resolution obviously ignores the interventionist policy of the united states and its allies which has contributed to the disintegration of these countries in the middle east. i regret the sectarian bias in the starting point of this resolution on the 'systematic massacre of religious minorities'. it is much more concerned about the fate of christians than shiite muslims and not a word is said about the agnostics or atheists, who are equally forced into exile, conversion or payment of religious tax to daesh. i also regret that it is still difficult to name directly the accomplices such as qatar, saudi arabia and turkey. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the islamic state and its horrendous crimes make me share with this text the same disgust. however, i am not convinced that the european union is using this as a political tool to give itself diplomatic legitimacy. i cannot support the idea of creating a 'permanent special representative for freedom of religion or belief' in the eu institutions. nor do i accept that the eu should demand that 'syria and iraq accept the jurisdiction of the international court of justice' which is clearly applying a western view of law to countries with very different cultural and civilizational backgrounds. it is clear that parliament's resolutions will not improve matters in the middle east. in this connection, i note that, apart from the petitions of principle, there is nothing said about the strategy to be followed to retake the territories controlled by the islamic state, although it goes without saying that the western powers should reconsider their position towards the syrian, russian and iranian governments and distance themselves from turkey, saudi arabia and qatar. i therefore abstained.
in writing. this motion for a resolution concerns the systematic slaughter of religious minorities by the islamic state. these are commendable intentions and objectives. however, the eu does not need to use these dramas to acquire more powers in foreign affairs. the eu has no international legitimacy to push for this. i therefore decided to abstain in order not to give the eu a position it should not have.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the systematic massacre of religious minorities by the islamic state group. the text highlights the horrors experienced by minorities, especially christians, in areas controlled by this terrorist group: massacres, looting, kidnappings, torture, rape, forced marriages, slavery... it strongly condemned these abuses and called on the un security council to declare them war crimes and crimes against humanity. the genocide which is being carried out deliberately against the christian, yazidi, turkmen, shiite, chabaks, sabae, kaka'e and sunni communities must be stopped. the resolution calls in particular for the international criminal court to be recognised as having the power to prosecute and try the perpetrators of these crimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution strongly condemning the massacres committed by the group 'isil' against religious minorities. the terrorist group is responsible for war crimes and genocide against these populations who do not share isil's abject interpretation of islam. we reiterate our unwavering commitment to respect for human rights and stress the importance of the international community providing the necessary assistance in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ in substance, i agree with the denunciation of the massacre of minorities by the so-called islamic state in the territories of iraq and syria. but the european union is using these crimes to arm itself with foreign policy means, and that is unacceptable. this body has no legitimacy on the international scene and would do better not to seek to solve the problems of others while relations between the peoples locked together within the union continue to deteriorate. in these circumstances, i therefore prefer to abstain, because i refuse to support the diplomatic efforts of the european union.
in writing. - it is obvious that i supported this resolution. but i would prefer not to have to vote on resolutions which refer to practices from another time. these massacres, tortures, executions for religious reasons are reminiscent of the thirty years' war in europe. why would you do that? because the different conceptions that clash around the questions of what is good for the region in terms of religion, model of society, power, politics, coalition, will never find any common answer. seventeenth-century europe, in this same irreconcilable situation, chose not to seek what was right, but to seek how to avoid evil. that is, how to avoid violent death (war and its diseases). the islamic state is gradually embodying this evil because it is affecting all parties. but the people responsible for its creation who thought they could avoid this evil have blood on their hands and will make reconciliation in the region difficult. so let's defend what will prevent civilizations from dying a violent death.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which strongly condemns the isil/daesh group and the war crimes and crimes against humanity they are committing. it is a global threat to international peace and security of unprecedented gravity. he embodies the very antithesis of civilization. among the sadly recorded atrocities, we point out here those specifically committed against religious and ethnic minorities, such as the christian, yazidi, turkmen, chabaks, kaka'e, sabaean-mandean, kurdish and shiite communities, as well as many sunni arabs and muslims. these minorities are systematically targeted: massacres, looting, kidnapping, torture, slavery, forced conversions and human trafficking, not to mention the destruction of religious and cultural sites. crimes against humanity and war crimes, wherever and whenever they occur, cannot go unpunished. we appeal to the international community! it is urgent to bring the matter before the icc, to set up humanitarian corridors, and to take steps to ensure that these acts are classified as genocide by the security council. today we feel helpless. let us not give up, for one day mankind will be able to bring the guilty to justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the international community to take urgent action in the face of the systematic massacre of religious and ethnic minorities by the islamic state group in iraq and syria. it is essential that action be taken without delay against these abuses and that those responsible for such atrocities be brought to justice. i supported this text which calls the systematic persecution and execution of christians, yazidis and other minorities genocide and calls for the un security council to recognize it as such. this is the first time that the european parliament has called ethnic massacres genocide. this position is supported by a un report from march 2015 which had already stressed that attacks by the "islamic state" group in iraq against the yazidi minority could constitute genocide. the resolution also calls on the un security council to refer the crimes of the islamic state group in iraq and syria to the international criminal court.
in writing. ‒ the resolution put to the vote by the european parliament strongly condemns the massacres and violence committed by the islamic state (is) group, which have led to one of the largest humanitarian crises ever in syria and iraq, with massive displacements of people. but this resolution does not take into account the responsibilities of the international community in the current crisis in the middle east and, moreover, supports unconditional military intervention as the only answer. the resolution also conceals the responsibilities of states which allow the financing of this terrorist organization, in particular through the trafficking of oil and cultural goods. the gue/ngl, on the contrary, calls for a political, diplomatic and peaceful settlement involving all the parties concerned, in particular the democratic forces, including the kurds. we also call for the urgent establishment of a humanitarian corridor and for the immediate cessation of the financial and logistical sources of support for is. so i refrained.
in writing. this upcoming text is part of the revision of the rules of the travel programme for pet animals (regulation (eu) no 576/2013). the revision should clarify what constitutes a commercial movement, allow additional security features on pet passports, introduce a new minimum age for rabies vaccines and introduce new rules for those travelling with more than five pets. the commission's commitment to carry out a study on the welfare of dogs and cats in commercial practices is a step in the right direction. the question will be whether we will introduce a delegated act on a system of registration of dogs and cats that is compatible and accessible in all the member states. although this seems to be in the interests of animal welfare, i would remain vigilant about the harmonization of policies i would therefore follow this matter closely because harmonizing standards would also reduce the cruelty in puppy farming and the risks to human health.
mr president, we are here in the european parliament and when you hand out the blue cards, whereas i had already taken mine up for a while, i think you should give priority to discussions between the british and other representatives, rather than to a debate between british people, which can take place elsewhere. it seems to me that this is more interesting, which is why i renew my request to put a question to mr fox.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i listened carefully to mrs zimmer's request that the refugees who have arrived in greece be distributed throughout europe, and i think it would be a tragedy if we did not do so. my question is simple: why does mrs zimmer want distribution only within europe? why should this not be the case for all the countries that make up our planet, including and especially the countries bordering it?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, be careful with analyses of the results of political movements in their respective countries. in france, i believe the socialists fell to 22% in the last election and no one resigned. ladies and gentlemen, in four months' time, the british people will be voting in a referendum to decide whether or not their country should remain in the european union. the choice of a popular vote to decide such an important issue is absolutely legitimate and demonstrates the great vitality of british democracy, unlike the situation in france. moreover, the media do not all have the same unanimous pro-european position. there will therefore be genuine democratic debates, a flood of ideas, analyses and positions. we see freedom of thought in action, freedom of opinion and respect for all opinions - the essence of democracy, in short. this reflection on brexit will be an opportunity for the british to take stock of the progress made in joining the european institutions as decided in 1970. if the balance sheet is not convincing, they will take another path, the path of freedom, the path of sovereignty. they will thus find the means to solve the problems of their time. the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of 1793 expresses in article 28 a clear and just principle: "one generation cannot subject to its laws future generations". a generation of britons had chosen to write the recent history of the united kingdom in the european union. this generation cannot impose the european institutions on the current generations without debate or vote. this referendum is in the very logic of democracy: it is therefore perfectly legitimate. the european union imposes its innumerable laws on us in the shadow of the treaties signed by our successive governments, but these decisions are taken by unelected people, most often without any real democratic debate and without any media debate. by these unjust decisions, which are contrary to the interests of its citizens, the european union is acting as a tyranny in power, which has come to power legally but is using it unfairly and dangerously. and the organization of the simulated agreement will not change this cruel reality, nor will the threats or blackmail that are multiplying on the part of the system, or the polls that are surely carried out by mr soros and that are brandished by mr weber, who obviously prefers polls to referendums, it seems. you cannot refuse to be judged by the people, and incidentally sanctioned by them, because that is precisely the essence of democracy. i hope the punishment for you will be brutal, for the reward for the british people will be freedom.
mr president, let me paraphrase a former french president, whose words have never sounded so true, when he warned: 'our house is burning and we are looking elsewhere'. we do not share the same priorities: 48 hours of talks and no substantial progress on the migration crisis, while thousands of desperate people are flocking to our continent. all this seems indecent, because at the same time our leaders, in order to prevent brexit, managed to agree, miraculously, to save david cameron's political career, open the pandora's box of europe to the map and bypass all those who want to pursue the european project. how can we convince our citizens that europe can cope with the flow of migrants, can protect them against chinese dumping, can fight daesh and be on an equal footing with the united states, while abdicating in front of its own members: greece yesterday, the united kingdom today. can one member state hold the other 27 hostage? the only victims are solidarity and the european project. the instability of the world's political, economic, social and environmental systems requires that we all be united. we want the united kingdom in the european union. the ball is in the british court, who must know that there will be no further negotiations. we cannot play games with europe. it is time, above all, for the member states to be more firemen than pyromaniacs. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mrs grossetête, you say that brexit will cause political and economic instability in europe. however, we have just learned that the frankfurt stock exchange has just decided to enter into an agreement with the london stock exchange. is this not proof that brexit is not scaring the business community at all and that the united kingdom will be able to regain its freedom without any detriment to itself?
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, you have not heard me correctly, i did not say that brexit would lead to political instability, i said that the political, economic, social and environmental instability in the world requires us all to be united. that is why it is essential that there are 500 million european citizens together in the context of globalisation and we need the uk. but when you look at the london stock exchange collapse, i think you're not quite right.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr karas, i must confess that i find it difficult to consider the agreement reached this weekend between our heads of state and government and mr cameron a success, because this theatre gives a terrible image of political impotence, as if europe were suffering from a lack of leadership, a lack of vision, a lack of will, and this image is not conducive to the british people's adherence to a european project. is there not an image of national egos that add up without any real perspective? i must say, ladies and gentlemen, that i am not satisfied with this agreement, because it opens the door to all demands and all negotiations. for four months we will not be able to take any decisions because the referendum will not have taken place.
mr president, whether we are talking about brexit or migrants, the underlying question is often the same: can the union remain united in diversity, or rather here in adversity? on the migration side of this council, we are struck by the lack of progress. what's been decided? i'm not doing anything! what was done that night was to validate what was supposed to be already in place, even if the efficiency on the ground is not always there. the reception and registration centres are finally established, but the relocations from italy and greece are happening in drops. worse still, the search for common solutions is hampered by unilateral decisions, almost everywhere in europe: the establishment of quotas of asylum seekers for some, the reintroduction of internal border controls for others. the europe of cooperation seems to be facing a europe of isolation. the isolation of greece is the first, because the cascading failures along the western balkan route have already had their effects. unhcr says there's chaos at the border crossing points. the commission and the council presidency are also talking about a possible humanitarian crisis. the question is therefore: why do we have to have more european summits when major decisions are not being taken? it is dangerous to use migration issues as a tool of political communication. unfortunately, this council has not escaped the rule.
in writing. this european council was just another meeting of europeans who are trying by all means to save what can be saved of the eu. no solutions were found to the problems in syria or libya, only declarations of good intentions. the migrant crisis will continue and even grow as european leaders refuse to face reality and the need to stop all immigration into the eu, exit schengen and finally allow states to control their national borders. the conclusions also welcome the agreement reached on the uk and its eu membership. let us hope that the british people will choose the brexit path and not be fooled again by the fine promises and negotiations of the european back-room shops. they have the opportunity to bring about change and their vote could open the way to the liberation of many european peoples from the brussels dictates. we must put an end to this technocratic eu which imposes its treaties and laws on us, decided by unelected people without democratic debate and with more than terrible consequences for the citizens.
in writing. the british people are extremely fortunate to be consulted by referendum on their country's membership of the european union. mr cameron is also fortunate to have found people in his european counterparts and the commission who are willing to help him try to contain the euroscepticism of the right wing of his party and ukip. but what did mr cameron actually get? very little, except the reaffirmation of the exceptions already enjoyed by the united kingdom on migration policy or the single currency and which, moreover, no one thought of calling into question. and vague promises of some legislative changes, which will ultimately depend on the goodwill of the european parliament. he will be presented to the electorate with a lie, that of his alleged victory over the brussels bureaucracy, and i hope with all my heart that they will not be fooled. i would not like to interfere in the campaign for the british referendum, but i believe that a vote in favour of brexit would be a great opportunity to radically change this bureaucratic and disconnected europe which the european people no longer want, and which has shown its impotence, inefficiency and even its capacity to cause harm in the face of all the crises, financial, debt, migration, agriculture.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, i welcome the presidency of the council and the commissioner. i would like to stress the somewhat formal nature of our exercise, deplore the low parliamentary dimension of the european semester and regret the lack of ambition in the report of the five presidents in this respect. that said - and i quote mrs rodrigues - the european union has no economic policy. economic policy is an addition of national policies and coordination is too often somewhat elusive. that is why we believe it is necessary to strengthen the euro area, which can only be enlarged if the countries which are not yet members of it show the will to do so. the euro area needs a budget that would enable us to combat asymmetric shocks and reward reforms that are being made by the member states. i would like to stress that the european financial stability mechanism is in a way a mutualisation of the over-indebtedness of certain member states in the euro area and that what we want with this budget is the policy mix: a synergy between budgetary policy and monetary policy.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, once again we see the complete ineffectiveness of the european semester. this programme, which is to bring national economies into line with the aim of building economic and monetary union, is not working. the oecd has cut its forecasts for growth and inflation in the euro area. however, the conditions are very favourable: the ecb's rates are low, the oil price is low, the euro-dollar has depreciated by 20% in the last two years, but the european economy is not recovering. in 1992, your pro-european advertising slogans boasted of full employment and european prosperity, but 25 years later your socioeconomic record is lamentable. the euro and your europe are mass unemployment, stagnation, a mountain of debt, austerity and, above all, financial and banking totalitarianism. your european utopia is not working and, moreover, the united kingdom has understood this and wants to leave this mess. the same causes produce the same effects, and none of the reforms of the european semester will work. unfortunately, in a year's time, the situation will be even worse than today. that is why we shall not vote for this report.
madam president, europe is suffering. all the indicators are in the red: mass unemployment, lack of competitiveness, recession and austerity. ladies and gentlemen, you are calling for more integration of the single market, but do you really believe in it? this process is a response to a powerful political agenda whose goal is the disappearance of the nation-state. you continue to present the single market as a cure for mass unemployment, when every day brings its share of bad results: closures of businesses, relocations, the precariousness of whole sections of the real economy. the stubborn complacency about the integration of the single market is astonishing, given this meagre record, which must be analysed pragmatically. in the imco committee, some colleagues made some astonishing statements. it is irresponsible to say that the millions of migrants who are arriving must be integrated into the single market and that they are a chance for europe. however, it is easy to anticipate the consequences of the integration of these populations on the labour market and on average wages. who benefits from crime, one might ask? the european economies, ladies and gentlemen, need oxygen, they are suffocating because of the centralizing rules imposed by the commission and its experts. market governance is an outdated concept which my group will oppose tomorrow.
madam president, the european semester is the scoreboard that the union sets itself to ensure the coherence of european public policies. beyond the mantra of 'competitiveness, growth, administrative burden', this control should incorporate the real social and economic tools of sustainability. unfortunately, the report makes no mention of the circular economy or the efficient management and use of resources, which were expressly requested by the european parliament in july 2015. moreover, how can we explain the absence of market surveillance tools in a report on the governance of the single market after the volkswagen and dieselgate scandals? how can we also explain, after luxleaks, the lack of fiscal and social convergence to balance public policies? therefore, mrs stihler, and i regret it, in view of the work you have done, because of these absences, we will unfortunately have to vote against this report.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 february 2016, at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by heinz k. becker, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets (a8-0224/2015).
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the case of the eures platform, the european network of employment services, is moving forward. in doing so, the negative points appear more clearly behind the apparently positive reasons for the proposal, which are the transparency of the labour market, the technological leap in networks with automatic matching of offers and cvs associated with new services, or the increased coordination of trade between member states. but in fact, through what you call, with humour, 'areas of labour shortage or surplus', it is possible to reveal a major hidden danger: that of clearly indicating to potential economic competitors the areas of strength or weakness of europe. the holding of categorical targeted listings by private and public law bodies may be agreed at member state level, but at european level it constitutes a major economic weapon as well as a powerful surveillance tool. it is therefore at the level of states and in the framework of targeted international partnerships that trade can take place in favour of workers who are chosen for their skills and who move freely.
mr president, commissioner, tomorrow we are voting on a new regulation to strengthen and develop the european job search network eures. we are finally giving this instrument the means to achieve its ambitions. eures is no longer an empty shell. with a revitalized web portal accessible to all, eures will make life easier for our european workers and employers. eures also supports apprentices by providing apprenticeship opportunities. and in border areas, i am pleased that eures is encouraging the creation of partnerships capable of providing information and support to border workers. i would now say that the ball is in the court of the member states. it is their responsibility to encourage the public employment services to improve the website and to promote this tool on the ground.
in writing. in the name of the sacrosanct 'free movement', the eu wants to set up a structured cooperation network allowing all citizens access to all job opportunities. the parliament's proposal mentions, in bulk, the strengthening of cooperation between the public employment services (spe), the integration of non-governmental organisations, an improvement of eures, the creation of a european coordination office... clear problems are emerging: logistical (matching offers and requests at european level poses obvious problems, especially in times of crisis), financial (matching offers and requests will be expensive) and above all human because eures, this "european employment pole", promotes blackmail on mobility, according to which an unemployed person would not want to work if he is not ready to take up an offer in europe, wherever it may be. rather than institutionalizing job insecurity and uprooting, support should be given to smes, which account for 90% of jobs in europe, and the conditions for job creation should be created in the member states. an individual, much to the commission's displeasure, will always prefer to work close to home!
i'm the reporter. mr president, dear cecilia malmström, i think this is an important debate we are having tonight. i'll be back in two minutes. i would first like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs who have been fully involved in the last few weeks on this important issue not only for tunisia but also for europe and for the idea we have of it. you all know the tunisian context, you all measure the way tunisia has come since the last arab revolutions. it is one of the few countries that has succeeded in its democratic transition and has succeeded in establishing democracy. he was rightly awarded the nobel peace prize for the tunisian dialogue. it was totally justified. however, you all know the challenges facing this country. we all remember the terrorist attacks that struck tunisia. the terrorists did not strike this country by chance, they struck because tunisia is succeeding and in doing so they obviously hurt the economy: there is no tourism, there is an unprecedented economic crisis, there is extremely high unemployment, especially among young people and young graduates, and there are all the questions that obviously arise in the neighbourhood of libya and perhaps tomorrow of algeria. so we need tunisia to succeed, and the european union must help it succeed. this is the spirit that presides over the two texts we are now considering. the first of these texts is very important. it was presented by the commission: these are emergency measures for olive oil. i say this is important because this is about doing things in practice. it is not just about talking, it is not about fine speeches, it is about being at the rendezvous of solidarity with tunisia and the tunisians. the commission's proposal is quite appropriate, namely not to increase exports of olive oil from tunisia but to increase the zero-duty olive oil quotas by 35 000 tonnes per year over two years, without exporting more olive oil from tunisia. i will give you a figure: we produce more than 1.4 million tonnes of olive oil in europe. so you can see that this proposal is very important for tunisia, but it is not of a nature to destabilize europe. we have also obtained amendments which provide for the effects of this mechanism to be measured after one year and if there is a problem - which i do not believe - measures will be taken. the second text refers to the free trade agreement with tunisia, called nafta. the first round of negotiations has taken place. we shall be adopting a resolution tomorrow on which we have worked very hard in our committee. the message from parliament is simple: it is not just a resolution about trade and free trade; it is a resolution about the future of the european union. it is first and foremost a political resolution, a resolution that expresses our solidarity, our support for democracy, growth, the economy and jobs in tunisia. this resolution sets the conditions for success. we say that the agreement must first be political; secondly, that this agreement be asymmetrical - first for tunisia - and progressive. thirdly, not only transparency, but also the fact that the tunisians as a whole should take ownership of this agreement, should make it their business. that is why i am very pleased that we have had this dialogue with the tunisian parliamentarians in the european parliament. it is very important to install it absolutely permanently. this agreement must serve tunisia, it must serve all tunisians, and then we will have met our requirement to stand by tunisia and the tunisians.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we all have the same objective in this house, namely to provide concrete and lasting help to tunisia and the tunisian people. that has been said, but it must still be remembered, because it is important for us europeans: tunisia is both the cradle and the symbol of the arab spring and it is one of the only countries which is today in a position to make a successful democratic transition. but of course - and mrs de sarnez was right to point this out - tunisia faces considerable challenges: political challenge with the terrorist threat, economic and social challenge with mass unemployment and collapsing tourism. in short, the question for us is how we can help the tunisians in a concrete and lasting way. the first thing - and this is mentioned in the text - is exceptional financial aid. many member states have committed themselves to this. the second thing we can do now, urgently and temporarily, is to extend the zero-duty olive oil quotas. i would like to see a frank debate between colleagues on this point. i do not think that, given the small importance of tunisian olive oil on the european market, this will have any impact on prices or even on european producers. i believe that this is a temporary emergency measure, which can give a little air to the tunisian economy. finally, there is this free trade agreement. i am absolutely convinced that we have said that this is above all a partnership which is not only economic but also political. and what does that involve? this of course presupposes that it is symmetrical and progressive, and this also presupposes - and here i am addressing myself to the commissioner, because i know that she is aware of this - that it is an association of all sections of civil society, which sometimes has reason to be worried, and we must reassure her. in some way europe must show in this agreement that this is not business as usual, but that there is a political imperative which we have taken into account and are trying to implement on this occasion. i think we must rise to the challenge, but also to the hopes and aspirations of the tunisian people.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as mrs de sarnez said, our responsibility is to stand by the just emancipation of the tunisian people, which is taking place - as many have said - in the midst of multiple torments, including the scourge of terrorism which has struck this country three times, with negative consequences for economic activity and employment. effective cooperation agreements with preferential trade can be decided with regard to sensitive sectors on both sides of the mediterranean. this is particularly the case in the fruit and vegetable sector, where production schedules should be put in place to avoid destructive competition. the same applies to the protection of olive oil production. unlike comprehensive free trade agreements, which are destructive of activity, or financial aid conditional on the requirements of the international monetary fund, we prefer cooperative partnership agreements decided upon after consultation with tunisian society and the impact studies necessary to prepare these negotiations.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i have two comments to make on this proposal. firstly, once again, the european parliament, under the guise of aiding the democratic process, is pursuing a policy of interference which is all too often its characteristic. we know the result of the action taken by some european countries in the process of democratization in other countries in north africa and the middle east. what real impact can an increase in olive oil imports have on the tunisian political crisis? i would like to ask you about the consequences of this initiative for european olive oil producers. the sector has been through a serious crisis and does not need the european union to make its situation worse for political reasons. the xylella fastidiosa bacteria have already put him in a lot of trouble and i think it's totally pointless to add to that. as is often the case, the european parliament is organising unfair competition, since there is no import tax. the small farmers will therefore once again be the ones to pay for the trouble. the rapporteur believes that the union must show solidarity at the expense of the farms of southern europe. the logical consequence of this common sense opinion would be to abandon this proposal, because it is impossible that these imports do not harm the european agricultural sector.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i agree with you that tunisia represents the major challenge of the european neighbourhood. everybody got that right. the first step in helping this country is to increase its exports, particularly in the key sector of olive oil. we must then quickly conclude a fair trade partnership between the european union and tunisia. but our support must go beyond this. the question of security merits broad regional cooperation between the maghreb countries. today, that doesn't exist. this is a field in which the european union must invest all its diplomatic power. in the end, supporting tunisia's economy is supporting its democracy. supporting tunisian democracy means fighting against the terrorism that is striking that country. fighting this terrorism is about protecting ourselves. that is the message that everyone in this house needs to hear tonight.
member of the commission.– madam president, this has been a good debate and shows that we all really want to help tunisia. it is a fragile democracy, it is really struggling and the people there have chosen a courageous way, as opposed to many of their neighbours. we know the challenges from terrorism and others that have affected them, but still they keep on fighting, and we as their neighbour have a duty to try to support them. their economy has also suffered immensely, and that is why the dcfta has the potential not only to support the economy and a longer partnership, of course, but also a democratisation and reform process, which they are already following. we will carefully work with the tunisian government in order to identify the priorities to make sure that this is asymmetric and that sensitive sectors are included, excluded or phased-in very slowly and that the priorities are defined jointly but, of course, listening very carefully to our tunisian friends. we will involve civil society, which is something we are talking to the tunisian government about a lot. it needs to be transparent, inclusive and as open as possible and they need to work hand in hand, because tunisia also has this very strong and dynamic civil society, as opposed to many of their neighbours. so the dcfta will have important effects for the future, but it will take some time before we can see the results. bearing in mind the acute situation in tunisia, we wanted also to support them short-term, and one way of doing so is the olive oil sector, which is so important for their economy. it was not our idea; it came from tunisia, which wants us to support this. how can we do it? well, we do it with what is important for tunisia but for us is a very modest contribution – less than 2% of our total olive oil market will be affected by this. we have, of course, closely monitored the situation, and it will have a very marginal effect on our market. so i think, honourable members – even if i hear what you are saying – that many of your fears are exaggerated. we will continue to monitor the situation. it is a two—year thing. this is a concrete way to support tunisia on a short—term basis. it will signal that our solidarity is not only beautiful words but that we are also accompanying these with action. that is why the commission really hopes that this house will support the rapporteur and the proposal by the committee on international trade in the vote tomorrow.
i would like to thank all those who have spoken in this debate. i think that we all here, despite our different sensibilities, have one goal: we want tunisia to succeed and that this success also benefits all tunisians. a word about the partnership agreement. i think the message from our parliament is clear. we do not want just a free trade agreement or a trade agreement: we want to start a real political partnership with tunisia. we call on the commission to show imagination and to involve tunisian civil society in this partnership. i know that the commissioner is hearing us and will hear us on this matter. it is very important that the tunisians take ownership of these negotiations, that they are not negotiations that fall out of nowhere with, in quotes, experts, but that they are really the business of the tunisians and the europeans. as regards the second question, it is obvious that we must help tunisia in the short term. that is why we need these emergency measures, and you have done well to remind us that it is the tunisians who are asking for them. it is not the commission that woke up one morning and said: 'this is what we are going to do.' it's a request from tunisia. it is very important that all our colleagues hear us tonight. various things have been said about it, but also inaccurate things. there will be no increase in the overall volume of olive oil imports from tunisia: the overall volume will remain exactly the same. besides, we're taking every precaution. if the amendments we have tabled in committee are adopted tomorrow morning - and they were in committee - we will have a precise assessment of the mechanism after a year. and if problems of imbalance arise - which i do not believe at all - the commission will propose measures to remedy them. that is why i really call on all members to be at the level of solidarity that our parliament must be. the tunisians are waiting for a strong political signal from our parliament tomorrow, so let's be there!
in writing. tunisia is going through a difficult period; the country has been hit by the attacks and the instability in the region has also impacted it. i would remind you that tunisia is currently hosting 1.8 million libyan refugees, or 16% of the tunisian population, to whom it is providing aid and assistance. in parallel with these difficulties, tunisia is pursuing its democratic transition and i welcome the award of the nobel peace prize to the tunisian dialogue. the european union wishes, through the launch of these trade negotiations, to strengthen its support for tunisia and to this end, the discussions on this trade agreement must allow for genuine reflection in order to take account of the interests, objectives and concerns of each of the actors. the future agreement will have to take account of the sensitivities of the sectors concerned. it will have to be progressive and asymmetrical and contribute to tunisia's stability, the consolidation of its democracy and the revival of its economy. it is also important to reaffirm the support of the european union to tunisia through the granting of exceptional and temporary measures to stimulate the tunisian economy while responding to and taking into account the concerns of european producers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for the last few months a small object of women's daily life has been in the spotlight. ladies and gentlemen, this is a tampon. this hygiene protection has allowed women to have more freedom during their period, but in recent years, scientific studies have alerted us to the presence of toxic and dangerous substances in hygiene products, such as tampons. despite the mobilisation of thousands of europeans who have spoken out for transparency in the industry, with full labelling of chemical components, the industry is not reacting and is hiding behind the fact that no european or national legislation has forced it to do so. when asked last december, the european commission said it was not considering new rules. on the eve of 8 march, women's rights day, we must defend the rights of women consumers, which do not seem to be a priority for the commission. i therefore ask the commission not only to protect women but above all to establish real rules on the matter.
madam president, i would like to inform you that almost six months ago this parliament adopted by a very large majority a report calling on the european commission to take a legislative initiative for the recognition of non-food geographical indications. this is a matter of concern to most of our territories, since it is a question of both the localisation of employment and the recognition of our know-how and our traditional products in a context where, in international competition, we are faced with territories which have their own production. while we want to support smes and promote employment in the european union, the recognition of these geographical indications would benefit both our smes and consumers, who would have a guarantee of the authenticity of the products they buy. for several years now we have had a study confirming the benefits of legislation in this area. i ask the commission to take up its responsibilities and to propose legislation in the coming year, as indicated in the internal market strategy.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report aims to give a final account of the activities of the european ombudsman, ms o'reilly, in 2014. i acknowledge that mrs o'reilly has sought to improve the transparency of the functioning of the european union. in this respect, it has taken two initiatives which deserve commendation. in terms of lobbying, it has succeeded in creating a transparency register in which more than 7 000 pressure groups have registered. the register will certainly not reduce the influence of the 35 000 lobbyists on the decisions of the european union, but at least it has the merit of being there. mrs o'reilly has also succeeded in improving transparency in clinical trials. some of the information from these trials is now published. this is particularly the case for clinical trial reports which determine the authorisation to place medicinal products on the market. this provides more information on the effectiveness of the drugs and the real cost of research. however, transparency has its limits. mrs o'reilly has thus failed to achieve real transparency on the negotiation of the transatlantic free trade agreement, tafta. access to negotiating documents has been officially relaxed somewhat, but in practice consultation of negotiating documents remains problematic, including for meps. the union is actually trying to prevent any real democratic control of tafta. tomorrow she will explain to us that the national parliaments are not empowered to vote on this treaty, which will nevertheless upset the lives of the peoples of europe. i also think that mrs o'reilly has committed a political error in calling for the introduction of a complaint procedure against frontex agents in favour of migrants. this procedure will be instrumentalised to enable migrants to stay in europe. for all these reasons, i shall vote against this report.
madam president, it is rather difficult to cover in one minute all the activities of the european ombudsman, as they are so numerous and so varied. i also believe that mrs o'reilly is showing a real willingness to help the citizens of europe, and we should welcome that. i shall therefore only dwell briefly on one subject, namely the actions undertaken in the field of transparency within the institutions and in the context of lobbying. i share your view that it is essential to ensure that european institutions are free from conflicts of interest if we are to preserve the trust of european citizens. it is in this sense that codes of conduct have emerged in recent years and a public register of interest representatives has been created. i take this opportunity to point out to the representatives of the national front that this register does not date from their arrival, but from a little longer, since it dates back to 2011. i'm closing the parenthesis. but are we well enough equipped to do so? how can we be credible if one of the institutions, like the council, does not play the game and does not participate in this collective effort to be transparent about our relations with the lobbies? i would therefore like to ask you, madam president, whether it is not time to consider the creation of an independent authority which, like the high authority for the transparency of political life in france, will be responsible for preventing and detecting cases of conflict of public or private interests of public officials.
in writing. i would like to commend the excellent work of emily o'reilly, who is taking on her role as european ombudsman with conviction. in order to ensure the good administration of our institutions, it is important to ensure that they respect democratic principles and the values of the union. i particularly welcome his action in relation to frontex. it is essential that the agency complies with the ombudsman's proposals to protect the fundamental rights of migrants in its joint return operations, in particular with regard to pregnant women and children. this is all the more important now, in the context of the increasing number of refugees at the borders of the european union. i therefore fully support emily o'reilly in her efforts to push frontex to set up its own complaints mechanism on fundamental rights. it is unthinkable that the agency should refuse to do so on the pretext that it is not responsible for violations of fundamental rights in the course of its activities. this should also apply to working agreements concluded by frontex with the competent authorities of third countries, implemented in a transparent manner. the fight for transparency is essential if european democracy is to be given substance.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, just a brief chronological recap, since things have already been said by a bit of everyone. in 1998 the tobacco industry in the united states was ordered to pay more than $200 billion in fines. in europe, faced with the complaint, the industry agreed that philip morris should pay 1.2 million euros, but in return, this agreement was reached. this is a problem because it means that the wolf has entered the sheepfold, the european institutions, and in particular olaf. in 2012, when we were debating the reform to introduce binding rules, philip morris - again he - was the head of the european commissioner, mr dalli, with the complicity of certain people at olaf, to the extent that for ten months the belgian judiciary has been asking for the lifting of mr kessler's diplomatic immunity. finally, in 2014, two months after the new tobacco and tobacco control regulations were voted and put in place, the industry, including philip morris, took the matter to the court of justice of the european union to challenge the content of our own texts. i would like to ask three very simple questions. first, how can an official mission be entrusted to a criminal enterprise with a history of public health violations? today, that is not acceptable. secondly, how can we accept that the european parliament is kept out of the decision which could be taken next week, before a resolution is even voted on in parliament? finally, thirdly, how can we get the approval of the protocol requiring the rejection of non-binding partnerships and agreements with the tobacco industry to be voted on in may? in conclusion, extending the agreement with philip morris is like entrusting the fight against organized crime to al capone. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i fully agree with you. i am surprised, moreover, that we have some very interesting pages and a conclusion that is three lines long and that does not at all meet the demands of the european parliament. there is a problem! a student would have done this in less than six months, whereas it took the commission a year and a half to do it.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the agreement with philip morris in 2004, which was concluded for 12 years. a fool's market, it has been said; lack of transparency, this has been confirmed; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is not applied in the same way as the directive. it is a fraudulent market because we have reached an agreement whereby philip morris is giving 1.25 billion for 12 years, while the member states are missing out on tax revenue of between 10 and 12 billion euros a year! secondly, madam vice-president, the european commission's assessment shows that this agreement has not put an end to the illicit trade in tobacco, which is taking on new forms, as we see with the cheap whites, manufactured in third countries of the european union, such as belarus, china, ukraine or the united arab emirates. madam vice-president, there are new instruments to combat smuggling effectively. we have just heard about the tobacco directive adopted in 2014, which provides for the implementation of traceability by 2019, and also about the protocol of agreement of the world health organization, a un institution that you are all familiar with, which asks us to ratify this protocol and organise independent traceability to effectively combat this deadly smuggling, counterfeiting, which is a tax penalty for member states, and cross-border purchases. finally, let us not forget that this parallel world of tobacco trafficking is one of the sources of funding for terrorism, in particular the al-mourabitoune group of mokhtar belmokhtar, aka 'mr marlboro', which is behind the attacks in burkina faso and mali. madam vice-president, in the face of the suspicion of cigarette corruption which has been haunting the corridors of the european commission for several years, i think it is very important today to refuse to maintain this agreement with philip morris in order to allow the commission to be efficient, but also transparent.
madam president, commissioner, i think this agreement with philip morris is not a good agreement and i confess that i do not understand why you want this signature to take place. it is not a good deal for the states, for their tax revenues, for the bureaucrats - the legal tobacco sellers, who lose money - and it is not a good deal for public health. in fact, through this agreement, philip morris is buying a moral high ground and getting away with it, because the key point is this: the illicit tobacco trade is fuelled by the tobacco manufacturers themselves, and this agreement is a white-wash for the cigarette manufacturers, who can then go on with their little business. the duplicity of the tobacco manufacturers is illustrated by one single figure: in the principality of andorra, where 120 tons of tobacco are needed to meet local demands, the manufacturers deliver 850 tons. why, if not to fuel the illicit tobacco trade? you tell us that this agreement will bring tax revenues to the states. that's right, you're right. but we are a long way from what smuggling itself brings to these same cigarette manufacturers. it is estimated that smuggled tobacco in france is worth 3 billion euros, in the united kingdom 2 billion euros, in greece 2 billion euros, and we are told that it generates a few hundred million euros in tax revenue a year... no, commissioner, even financially, this is not a good deal. the cooperation agreements must not be renewed, they must be replaced by the who protocol you mentioned. we need truly independent traceability. commissioner, i say to you calmly but solemnly: do not sign this agreement, it is a question of fiscal efficiency, it is a question of public health and - i dare say it - it is also a question of morality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorising austria and malta to accede, in the interests of the eu, to the hague convention. the purpose of this convention is to simplify the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. even if this authorization to join means strengthening the european union, we must respect the sovereign will of these two countries to join.
in writing. ‒ this report is a draft recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorising austria and malta to accede to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. this convention simplifies the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. it is an effective instrument that streamlines global judicial relations. austria and malta have expressed their wish to join, and the eu must respect their sovereign choice. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention simplifies the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. since it applies only to relations with non-eu countries, it simplifies global judicial relations. austria and malta have expressed their wish to join, so i did not oppose it. the convention does not allow membership of international organisations. however, following the adoption of regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on cross-border service of documents (the 'regulation'), the union has acquired exclusive external competence in this area, in accordance with article 3 (2) tfeu, which states that 'the union shall also have exclusive competence to conclude an international agreement where such conclusion ... is likely to affect common rules or alter their scope'. it is on the basis of this article that the decision in question was put to the vote of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of regulation (ec) no 1393/2007, the union acquired exclusive external competence in the field of membership of an international organisation. the text calls for austria and malta to be authorized to accede to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. twenty-six member states already apply the convention and overall the convention has been widely adopted (eu, china, russia, switzerland, etc.). the convention is an effective instrument which streamlines global judicial relations. in theory, this authorization to join is to strengthen the eu, but in reality we must respect the sovereign will to join expressed by austria and malta. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the convention simplifies the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. it applies only to relations with non-eu countries. twenty-six member states are already applying it. the convention does not allow membership of international organisations. however, following the adoption of regulation (ec) no 1393/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 november 2007 on cross-border service of documents (the 'regulation'), the union has acquired exclusive external competence in this area, in accordance with article 3 (2) tfeu. in theory, this authorisation to join is tantamount to strengthening the european union. but in this case we must respect the sovereign will to join expressed by austria and malta. i voted for it as i did in the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the ratification by austria and the accession of malta to the convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. this convention applies only to documents intended for countries outside the european union and makes it possible, in particular, to smooth out judicial relations between states. furthermore, the sovereign will of austria and malta to accede to any international convention should be respected. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the european parliament's approval to the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention of 15 november 1965. it sets up a system for the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters between the european union and signatory third countries. only austria and malta had not yet applied the acquis within the union and had expressed their wish to join. i have supported this report because i believe that the convention has proved its usefulness in the crossborder field and that it is in the interest of the member states to have a uniform regime in this field in their relations with third countries.
in writing. i supported the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. i support these measures to facilitate cooperation with third countries in the field of judicial cooperation in transnational civil and commercial litigation. the hague convention contributes to this objective by simplifying the procedures for the transmission of judicial and extrajudicial documents between the contracting states.
in writing. ‒ this convention has the merit of simplifying the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. it applies only to relations with countries outside the european union. it is an effective tool for contributing to the smooth functioning of judicial relations. it is true that this authorization contributes to the strengthening of the european union, but the elected representative, who is committed to respecting the sovereignty of the states, must allow austria and malta to accede to the convention as they wish. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ in the spirit of respect for the wishes of both austria and malta as national sovereigns, we can only justify the signature and ratification by the former and the accession by the latter of the hague convention of 15 november 1965. the convention simplifies global judicial relations and the development that the two states intend to take is entirely laudable in this perspective of european cohesion, although this authorization to join is tantamount to strengthening the european union, which we are theoretically opposed to. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr viktor uspaskich, on the authorization given to austria to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965 and to malta to accede to that convention. twenty-six of the 28 member states of the union already apply the hague convention and austria and malta have also applied to join. this decision will make it possible to harmonize the european system of relations with third countries. i therefore approve the council decision authorizing the accession of austria and malta to the convention. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the text approves austria's decision to sign and ratify the 1965 hague convention and malta's decision to accede to it. 26 of the 28 eu member states are members of this convention, which facilitates the international exchange of judicial and extrajudicial documents. since the other 26 member states considered the convention useful, it was necessary for austria and malta to join it in order to definitively harmonize the european system of relations with third countries on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report authorising austria to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965 and malta to accede to it. the convention is a rather effective instrument, which streamlines global judicial relations. in theory, this authorisation to join could be used to strengthen the european union, which acquired exclusive external competence in this area in 2007. but in this case we must respect the sovereign will to join expressed by austria and malta.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we must respect the sovereign will of austria and malta to accede to the hague convention.
in writing. - i voted yes. this convention simplifies the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. it is already applied by 26 of the member states and concerns only relations with non-eu countries. in fact, this convention is intended to strengthen the european union, but we must respect the sovereign will expressed by austria and malta to accede to this convention.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is here consulted on the willingness of malta and austria to accede to the hague convention on the notification to any other country of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters (court summonses and orders, orders, judgments and orders, etc.). more than 50 states are bound by this instrument of private international law. i support the council's decision, as it is a matter of the sovereign will of two countries to participate.
in writing. ‒ the convention aims to facilitate global judicial reporting by simplifying it. although this requires authorization from the eu, i believe it is essential to respect the sovereign will of austria and malta to accede to the convention, as expressed by both nations. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention simplifies the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. at present, 26 of the member states apply it and most of the other major world powers do too (united states, china, russia, switzerland, etc.). the convention does not allow for membership of international organisations such as the european union. but according to article 3 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european union has acquired the competence to give its consent to the conclusion of a treaty which may affect common rules. malta and austria therefore need to obtain eu authorisation to accede to the convention. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. ‒ the convention is an effective instrument, which streamlines global judicial relations. in theory, this authorisation to join is tantamount to strengthening the european union. but in this case we must respect the sovereign will to join expressed by austria and malta. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the uspaskich report. the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system for the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. it should be clarified that it applies only to documents intended for or emanating from countries outside the european union. twenty-six of the 28 member states already apply the convention. the two member states which have not yet applied it, namely austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. since the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proved its usefulness in the crossborder service of documents and since it is in the interest of both the european union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system in this area in their relations with third countries, it is proposed that parliament give its consent to the decision authorising the accession of austria and malta to the said convention.
in writing. this report is an authorisation by the european parliament for the accession of malta and austria to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters. since all the eu countries except austria and malta are already parties to the convention, i voted in favour of this report in order to ensure that the convention is applied more harmoniously in all the countries of the union.
in writing. ‒ the sovereign states concerned, austria and malta, have expressed their willingness to sign and ratify the hague convention of 15 november 1965. it's only natural to respect that wish. i therefore vote in favour of this decision.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the hague convention of 15 november 1965 which establishes a system for the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. these are documents intended for or originating in third countries. at present, 26 member states apply this convention. austria and malta have expressed their willingness to join. in order to follow the european parliament's approval procedure for the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention and in view of the use made of this uniform system for the transmission of documents, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this convention simplifies the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. it applies only to relations with non-eu countries. twenty-six member states are already applying it. the convention has been widely adopted (eu, china, russia, switzerland, etc.). the convention remains an effective instrument which facilitates global judicial relations. in theory, this authorisation to join is tantamount to strengthening the european union. but in this case we must respect the sovereign will to join expressed by austria and malta. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to validate the agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures equivalent to those provided for in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. this decision will limit the possibility for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations to the tax authorities. the agreement also provides for the exchange of information on savings income, account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. tax transparency and the end of banking secrecy both within and outside the eu is a priority in order to safeguard tax revenues of the states.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to validate the agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 8 december 2015, aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the aim is to combat ordinary tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to escape such a tax bracket. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged relates not only to savings income (interest and dividends) but also to account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. in line with our previous votes on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra), i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement signed on 8 december 2015 between the eu and the most serene republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and, therefore, compliance with tax obligations at international level. the text provides that the european union and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. however, the agreement was applied early as of 1 january 2016. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. that is why i supported this agreement, in line with my previous votes on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra).
in writing. ‒ this report should validate the agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, signed on 8 december 2015, aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. this text was applied early on 1 january 2016 instead of 2017. the agreement provides for the exchange of information on savings income (interest and dividends) but also on account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets in order to be in line with oecd standards and to better address ordinary tax evasion. following my previous votes on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein and andorra), i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is to validate the agreement signed on 8 december 2015 between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. i voted in favour of the end of banking secrecy in europe, as i had done in previous votes (switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra).
in writing. ‒ the text in question aims to strengthen tax transparency and combat banking secrecy in san marino. the european union and the republic of san marino will now exchange data on both savings income and account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the signing of such an agreement should first and foremost be a matter for the member states and not for the european union, but given the urgency of effectively combating tax evasion, such a text is a good idea and should be supported. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion must be conducted both within and outside the union's borders. this provision is all the more striking in the case of the republic of san marino, since the microstate is enclosed within a member state, italy. the agreement between san marino and the european union, signed in december 2015, will allow for an automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which will improve tax cooperation between san marino and the union. i voted in favour of this report, which is a further step in the process of strengthening tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the european parliament's approval to the amendment of the agreement between the european community and san marino, in order to better combat tax evasion. the new protocol aims to make it harder for eu citizens to hide capital from tax, by providing for the automatic exchange of information on residents' financial accounts from 2017. i have voted in favour of this report because i consider tax evasion to be one of the consequences of banking secrecy.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of this agreement between the european community and the republic of san marino providing for measures on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the aim of this agreement is to strengthen the measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion in the framework of cooperation between the european union and the republic of san marino. the adoption of this new set of measures will make it possible, in particular, to enforce tax laws in cross-border situations, but also to assess the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ it was proposed to validate the agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic and reciprocal exchange of information on savings and financial accounts, signed on 8 december 2015. its application, originally planned for 2017, was brought forward to 1 january 2016. the text aims to strengthen transparency, tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations, in particular the fight against ordinary tax evasion. in line with my previous votes on the end of banking secrecy in switzerland, liechtenstein and andorra, i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ transparency is essential to identify aggressive tax planning practices by large companies and to ensure fair tax competition. it seems necessary that national authorities exchange tax information on the activities of multinationals, country by country. all member states must have information that is essential for detecting risks of tax evasion and for better targeting their tax controls. this eu-san marino tax transparency agreement is in line with previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein and andorra. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague cora van nieuwenhuizen on the eu-san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts. the european union has developed this agreement to increase tax transparency in the exchange of information between administrations. i support this exchange of information between the administrations of the european union and san marino, which is essential for the fight against tax fraud and evasion. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to set up an automatic exchange of tax information between the eu and san marino. this will help to combat the many taxpayers who seek to hide their capital in san marino to avoid paying taxes and will strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-san marino agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the text provides that the european union and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. the aim is to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it supports the eu's passage of a tax transparency agreement with san marino.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. this is to validate the agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 8 december 2015, aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the text provides that the european union and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. however, the agreement was applied early as of 1 january 2016. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation.
in writing. ‒ on 8 december 2015, the european union and san marino signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at combating tax fraud and evasion. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets on which tax has not been paid. in the case of the similar agreement with switzerland, an even bigger tax haven (even hiding the income of ministers ...) the eu had in the end maintained bank secrecy, not providing for an obligation to disclose complete and detailed information on account holders. i am voting for this in order to support this step in the fight against tax evasion, even though in any case parliament is simply consulted and the decision has already been taken. one more time.
in writing. ‒ this agreement promotes transparency for taxation and saving. its aim is to actively combat tax evasion. it follows similar agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein and andorra which we have supported for the end of banking secrecy. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is to validate the agreement signed on 8 december 2015 between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the text provides that the european union and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. however, the agreement was applied early as of 1 january 2016. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. as a logical follow-up to our previous votes on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra), we support these agreements.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in the logical continuation of my previous votes on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra), i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a tax transparency agreement with san marino. similar agreements have already been signed with switzerland, liechtenstein and andorra. transparency is a major issue in the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, in which our assembly endorses the agreement signed in december 2015 between the european union and san marino. the agreement aims to establish an automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of the respective residents of the two signatory parties, which will start from 2017. the agreement provides for the application of enhanced measures by san marino, equivalent to those in place within the union since 2014. the commission notes that the agreement does not contain any provision for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the agreement is a further step in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, since it will be more difficult for a taxpayer to conceal the money on which the tax is due. to this end, tax administrations will be able to identify the taxpayers involved, manage and enforce their tax laws in cross-border cases or assess the likelihood of tax evasion. finally, i would like to point out that this agreement remains similar to those concluded with switzerland on 27 october 2015 and with liechtenstein on 2 december 2015, which i had already supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the conditions for the automatic exchange of information with the republic of san marino on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this agreement shall enter into force on 1 january 2017. tax administrations in eu member states and san marino will be able to identify the taxpayers concerned, manage and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, and also assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated. europe must take concrete and effective measures against tax fraud and evasion. an agreement with the republic of san marino was necessary and this project is moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ this is to validate the agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 8 december 2015, aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the text provides that the european union and the republic of san marino will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. however, the agreement was applied early as of 1 january 2016. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. i therefore vote for this text in the spirit of the previous votes on tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the report on the accession of croatia to the conventions on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. i am in favour of measures to protect the eu's financial interests, but i am against the policy of enlargement of the union. i could not therefore support this text.
in writing. ‒ this is a report by the libe committee which recommends that parliament approve a decision on croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols. although my colleagues from the front national and i are opposed to the logic of permanent enlargement, i abstained, considering that the protection of the financial interests of the european union and therefore also of french taxpayers is at stake.
in writing. ‒ the libe committee recommends that parliament approve a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols: i did not oppose it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols and this accession was recommended by parliament's libe committee. i remain strongly opposed to the permanent enlargement of the eu, but this is about protecting the eu's financial interests, so the french taxpayers are behind it, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union. if we are opposed a priori to any extension of the scope of accession, in this case it is a question of protecting the financial interests of the union and therefore the proper use of the contribution of the member states, such as france. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the european parliament's approval to croatia's accession to the conventions on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. as this accession follows croatia's entry into the european union on 1 july 2013, i supported this report.
in writing. i am voting in favour of croatia's accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states to establish a common basis for the protection of the european communities' financial interests by means of criminal law. it is normal for the latter, which is a member of the european union, to take part in conventions to which the european union is a party.
in writing. ‒ as i am opposed to the continuing enlargement of the european union, and without wanting to target croatia in particular, i cannot support its accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols. however, as the text is intended to protect the financial interests of the eu and therefore of my country, france, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. croatia has been a member of the european union since 2013. for the sake of consistency, it seems to me logical that it should accede to all conventions and protocols concluded by the other member states. in reality, this text is merely a formality which makes it possible, among other things, to translate the conventions into croatian. there is therefore no reason to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is a further demonstration of the logic of permanent enlargement of the european union. nevertheless, it appears that this text is aimed at greater protection of the financial interests of the european union, which therefore implies the fate of french taxpayers. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tomáš zdechovský on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the accession of croatia to the european union facilitates its accession to conventions and protocols concluded by other member states. i support this council decision so that these conventions can enter into force for croatia while making the necessary adjustments, such as the translation into croatian. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which simply endorsed the fact that croatia, as a new member state of the european union, is acceding to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, to which all the other countries of the european union are members.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the accession of croatia to the conventions on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. without specifically targeting croatia, i am opposed to the logic of systematic and permanent enlargement of the european union. however, as the protection of the financial interests of the european union (and therefore also of french taxpayers) is at stake, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the eu's financial interests. it is true that it is in the interests of french taxpayers. but it is based on the logic of eu enlargement which i oppose.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin abstained on this vote. the libe committee recommends that parliament approve a decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols. we are fundamentally opposed to the logic of permanent enlargement of the european union. but since the protection of the financial interests of the european union (and therefore also of french taxpayers) is at stake, we can abstain.
in writing. ‒ following its accession to the eu, the aim is to approve croatia's participation in the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests (and related protocols), i.e. the fight against fraud. however, since the treaty of lisbon, there are no longer any ratification processes by national parliaments on these issues and parliament is simply consulted; the council shall not be bound by its decision. i am opposed to the enlargement of the union and the treaty of lisbon, but i support the sovereign choice of a state to participate in a european convention, particularly on the fight against fraud. under the circumstances, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the logic of enlargement, but it must be recognised that croatia's accession to this convention defends the financial interests of the eu, and consequently those of the french. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols following the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we abstain on this vote because we are opposed to the logic of permanent enlargement of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the libe committee recommends that parliament approve a decision on the accession of croatia to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols. without specifically targeting croatia, i am opposed to the logic of permanent enlargement of the european union. but as the protection of the european union's financial interests (and therefore also that of french taxpayers) is at stake, i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to any enlargement of the european union on principle. but this text is about protecting the financial interests of the eu, and therefore also the financial interests of french taxpayers. in these circumstances, i do not want to give my consent or oppose it and therefore i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the eu's financial interests. the convention, signed in 1995 and entered into force in 2002, requires eu countries to introduce effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions to combat fraud affecting the eu's financial interests. the convention thus ensures harmonised protection of financial interests in all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ we are generally opposed to the logic of permanent enlargement of the european union. but since this is a matter of protecting the financial interests of the european union (and therefore also those of french taxpayers), i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a regulation on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets. the system is facing many problems. firstly, it would tend to encourage the "brain drain" which would increase inequalities between the different european areas (east, west, north, south). secondly, more than an obvious logistical and resource problem, this network would trigger the uprooting of workers and the precariousness of employment. finally, the eures system for job mobility would encourage blackmail against mobility and would pose major difficulties with regard to unemployment benefits. i am deeply opposed to the single market in employment and i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this text is consistent with the eu's plan to create a single labour market based on one of the founding pillars of the eu, namely the free movement of workers. in this case, the aim is to set up a structured cooperation network allowing all european citizens to have access to all job vacancies. the measures mentioned include strengthening cooperation between public employment services, integrating non-public bodies (trade unions, chambers of commerce), improving access to the eures portal and creating a european coordination office (to collect information from the national offices, train its staff and make surpluses and shortages in the different regions). the employment and social innovation programme (easi) is funding this scheme. i voted against this report because i believe that this system encourages the uprooting of workers, that it imposes the single european labour market as the only alternative to unemployment and that it institutionalizes the precariousness of employment.
in writing. ‒ since the free movement of workers is one of the eu's tenets, the establishment of a structured cooperation network allowing all european citizens access to all job opportunities appears to be a favourable mechanism for the achievement of a single labour market. among the many problems raised by this report is the risk that the system in question will increase inequalities between southern and eastern europe and northern and western europe by encouraging 'brain drain'. worse, eures "european job centre" would encourage blackmail of mobility, whereby an unemployed person would not want to work unless he or she is ready to take up an offer in europe, wherever it may be; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social security system is in place. finally, it encourages the uprooting of workers, imposes the single european labour market as the only alternative to unemployment and institutionalizes the precariousness of employment. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the establishment of a structured cooperation network which should enable all european citizens to have access to all job opportunities. this seems to be conducive to the creation of a single labour market. the aim is to strengthen cooperation between public employment services (pos), to integrate non-public bodies (trade unions, chambers of commerce), to improve access to the eures portal and to set up a european coordination office. the scheme will be piloted by the commission in partnership with the states. i voted against this report because it encourages the uprooting of workers, imposes the single european labour market as the only alternative to unemployment and institutionalises the precariousness of employment. it encourages brain drain and increases inequalities between countries, and eures tends to encourage blackmail of the unemployed's mobility throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ this involves the establishment of a structured cooperation network allowing all european citizens access to all job vacancies, with a view to achieving a single labour market. among other problems, this system tends to encourage 'brain drain' and thus to deepen inequalities within the union, also encourages the uprooting of workers, imposes the single european labour market as the only alternative to unemployment and institutionalises the precariousness of employment. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the mobility of european workers is a key condition for the creation of a single labour market. this utopia, especially in the absence of social harmonization, increases the intensity of unfair competition between member states. the deepening of the eures network will gradually lead to the promotion of one-way mobility from east to west. in a very degraded economic and social context, marked by the scandal of the directive on the posting of workers, such a deepening is completely inappropriate. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ freedom of movement and of establishment for european citizens within the european union is one of the pillars of the european project. this allows workers to move to another member state in order to work there. within the single market, the mobility of workers is of considerable importance. everything must therefore be put in place to make this mobility operational. the eures network is an effective tool for jobseekers and employers. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to complete the integration of labour markets.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to improve workers' access to support services for occupational mobility within the union by strengthening the eures network. this instrument brings together jobseekers and employers (e.g. offers of traineeships and apprenticeships). the report proposes, in particular, the creation of a european database to better link job demand and job vacancies. it also provides for free support services for workers and employers and the creation of a european coordination office, managed by the european commission. finally, it implements specific partnerships for the mobility of workers in crossborder regions. i have supported this report because i believe that the present employment situation in europe is partly due to a mismatch between demand and supply of labour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to facilitate and encourage intra-european recruitment, in particular through the revision of the eures portal for job mobility. the objective of this instrument is to respond more adequately to developments in the labour market in europe. i am particularly in favour of the development of the eures portal to promote learning in europe.
in writing. ‒ the european network of employment services and workers' access to mobility services (eures) is a cooperation network aimed at facilitating the free movement of workers within the 28 eu member states, switzerland, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. i therefore voted in favour of the report on eures. this report concerns a proposal by the european commission for a new regulation to improve the functioning of the eures tool. it will help to revitalise the network available to workers to support them in their occupational mobility projects, but also to companies, especially smes, to help them fill vacant posts. i welcome the fact that this new regulation will allow the creation of crossborder partnerships capable of providing information and support to workers.
in writing. ‒ since the free movement of workers is a pillar of the union, it is understandable that the establishment of a network for access to job vacancies for all europeans is proposed, in order to achieve a single labour market. but, being committed to the defence of french workers, i can only oppose the uprooting of the latter, the precariousness as their only hope and the unjust flight of brains from some states to others. finally, it is a project that will face logistical and resource difficulties as well as obstacles such as the barrier of european languages. in the name of pragmatism and the national preference for the defence of workers, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the idea is a priori tempting: to tackle unemployment by linking the whole of the supply of and demand for jobs at european level. it does not, however, stand up to scrutiny. the rapporteur notes and regrets in the explanatory statement that the rate of 'mobility' of workers in the union is only 0.29%, a figure which of course does not include posted workers. but he doesn't analyze the fundamentals. how can one reasonably believe that this low rate is due only to a lack of information among potential workers and employers? how can we believe that the lack of appetite of an unemployed frenchman or swede to go to work for 425 euros a month in romania, where that is the average salary, is due only to his ignorance of the job offers available? or that an unemployed romanian is not tempted to make the trip to france, no matter what happens, even if he only finds a job paid for by the smic? your desire to create an artificial single labour market will result in the institutionalisation of social dumping, the threat of subjecting the rights of the unemployed to acceptance of any job, anywhere in europe, and ultimately, a social levelling down. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ on thursday 25 february, i voted in favour of a text to reform the european employment services network (eures), a european database of jobseekers and job vacancies in europe. to combat unemployment effectively, we must improve the matching of supply and demand in the labour market. with this new eures portal, free and accessible, we will now be able to automatically synchronise cvs with suitable job vacancies. in addition, all vacancies published by public employment offices in the eu member states will be available at european level on the web portal. eures is also a great support tool for frontier workers, who will be able to benefit from essential information on the legislation applicable across borders and will benefit from personalised support in their rights transfer procedures. the member states must now make good use of it!
in writing. ‒ labour market policies are a competence of the member states and the rapporteur, mr becker, has ensured that this prerogative is respected. i do, however, support the idea that the mobility of workers can be encouraged by better european coordination of employment services. that is the whole point of the proposed regulation. the proposal aims to strengthen the eures network by bringing together job vacancies, including traineeships and apprenticeships, and applications for these vacancies under a single label. the public employment services are members of this structure. the provision of these services will be free of charge for applicants and may be chargeable to employers for specific requests. the proposal favours the creation of an instrument for mobility and employment without depriving the member states of their primary competence in the field of employment policy. that is why i supported this text.
in writing. ‒ the original text on the project for a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets included the promotion of the single labour and employment market through the eures (european employment services) scheme. it goes without saying that all my colleagues in the enf group opposed this in the committee on employment and social affairs several days ago. the free movement of workers and the linking of job vacancies and jobseekers at european level are a danger for french workers. this system tends to encourage 'brain drain' and thus to widen the gap between southern and eastern europe and northern and western europe. this is therefore in total opposition to the national preference over employment which we have always advocated. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague heinz becker on the european network of employment services (eures), on workers' access to mobility services and on the further integration of labour markets. the aim is to encourage and improve the professional mobility of european workers through the european eures tool. companies can also use it to search for job candidates. in the context of persistent unemployment, especially among young people, which is a priority for my political group, the epp, i support this initiative which aims to boost the european labour market, particularly in border areas, with the possibility of developing partnerships. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this report is about a commission proposal to improve the eures network. eures is a tool for workers to support them in their professional mobility. it brings together job vacancies from across the union, thus facilitating the mobility of workers within the european union and enabling smes to fill vacancies. at a time of particular difficulty for employment in france and europe, especially for young people, it was obvious to vote in favour of this text which will boost the labour market, particularly in the border areas, while keeping in mind that labour market policies remain the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'the european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets' for several reasons. visibility and access to the network remain complex, despite apparent good intentions. the linking of supply and demand at european level poses obvious logistical and resource problems. the system tends to encourage brain drain and thus to widen the gap between southern and eastern europe and northern and western europe. eures ('european employment pole') promotes blackmail on mobility, whereby an unemployed person would not want to work unless he or she is ready to take up an offer elsewhere in europe, wherever it may be, which could potentially pose difficulties with regard to unemployment benefits. this system encourages the uprooting of workers, imposes the single european labour market as the only alternative to unemployment and institutionalizes the precariousness of employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to develop a european-wide labour market. such a market is contrary to the national priority advocated by the fn. the enf group tabled an amendment to leave each member state the right not to participate in this new integration, but this amendment was rejected by the rps and its european allies. ultraliberalism is advancing a little further!
in writing. ‒ with an unemployment rate of almost 9% in 2015, the union needs to have effective tools to facilitate access to employment. eures, the european network of employment services, was set up to provide information, advice and recruitment services. this database has a number of shortcomings, particularly in the automated matching system between cvs and job vacancies. the proposal for a regulation aims to reorganise the eures network in order to improve its functioning by updating the platform for the exchange of job vacancies and the cv database. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one.
in writing. - we voted against it. this eures system is a further step towards an ever more inclusive single market. this 'european employment pole' has obvious shortcomings: the matching of supply and demand at european level poses obvious logistical and resource problems; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european social fund is not used to the detriment of the unemployed, and that the european social fund is not used to the detriment of the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ eures is a cooperation network to facilitate the free movement of workers within the 28 eu member states, switzerland, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. the report before us is intended to make this system more effective. parliament's amendments are aimed at guaranteeing workers' rights. the text thus allows member states to 'refuse or revoke the admission of eures members or partners who violate applicable labour standards and legal requirements, in particular as regards remuneration and working conditions'. it also seeks to combat 'any discrimination based on nationality between workers of the member states in matters of employment, remuneration and other conditions of work and employment within the union'. however, the text takes it as a principle that increasing the mobility of workers is a way of combating unemployment, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the eures platform is in fact a major hidden danger, one of clearly indicating to potential economic competitors the areas of strength and weakness of europe. the holding of categorical targeted listings in the hands of public or private actors could still be acceptable at the level of states, but not at the level of europe as it would then constitute a powerful economic weapon. the establishment of this network is also a celebration of the single labour market. it is a risk of blackmailing mobility and is contrary to national preference. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a structured cooperation network allowing all european citizens access to all job vacancies is part of the free movement of workers, a founding pillar of the european union. the measures mentioned are to strengthen cooperation between public employment services, to integrate non-public bodies (trade unions, chambers of commerce), to improve access to the eures portal ('european employment hub') and to create a european coordination portal. this system is dangerous because it further encourages the uprooting of workers, imposes the single european labour market as the only alternative to unemployment and institutionalises the precariousness of employment. in addition, eures promotes the blackmail of mobility, that an unemployed person would not want to work unless he is ready to take up an offer in europe, wherever it may be. we therefore strongly oppose the establishment of this network which will continue to undermine our sovereignty and our economy.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation raises several problems. despite apparent good intentions, visibility and access to the network will remain complex. the linking of supply and demand at european level poses obvious logistical and resource problems. this system also tends to encourage 'brain drain' and thus to widen the gap between southern and eastern europe and northern and western europe. on the other hand, it encourages the uprooting of workers, imposes the single european labour market as the only alternative to unemployment and institutionalizes the precariousness of employment. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets. the report aims to improve the mobility of workers within the union and to revise the european network of employment services eures following the analysis of the shortcomings in the current system.
in writing. ‒ in line with the disastrous posting of workers directive, this report increasingly promotes the movement of workers, as if the european union were one vast pool of jobs. i am firmly opposed to this vision of things which denies the identity of peoples and the attachment of citizens to their country. such a logic actually contributes to increasing inequalities and tensions between member states, and it is particularly harmful to french workers, who are placed in unfair competition with those in other countries. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ as part of the freedoms of movement which are the essence of the european construction, the free movement of workers is essential to any strategy to combat longterm and mass unemployment in an 'optimal monetary area'. by improving the employment prospects of workers and non-workers, and by helping employers to fill their vacancies quickly, mobility ultimately benefits the growth areas of europe. the alarming fact is that the rate of labour mobility in the union is only 0.29% and only 3.1% of european workers are employed in a member state other than their country of origin, despite the fact that there are large disparities in the demand for and supply of jobs between european regions. while labour law is almost exclusively a matter for the member states, this proposal for a regulation aims to strengthen the eures network by improving the information, transparency, accessibility and visibility of a large pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles across europe. i voted in favour of this text, which presents a positive outlook for employment, labour mobility and growth in the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on a proposal for a regulation to improve workers' access to mobility support services within the european union. the regulation concerns the eures network, which is an effective tool for jobseekers and registered employers, in particular smes, in connection with professional mobility within the union. the eures network makes it possible to upload cvs and job vacancies, traineeships and apprenticeships available throughout europe. specialist counsellors within the public employment services are also available to jobseekers. border workers will also be able to benefit from eures, which will provide them with information on the legislation applicable in the border countries and will provide personalised support for the transfer of their rights.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of workers is one of the founding pillars of the union and the establishment of a structured cooperation network allowing all european citizens access to all job opportunities appears to be a logical step towards the completion of a single labour market, which the national front opposes. the problems raised are as follows: - visibility and access to the network remain complex, despite apparent good intentions; - the linking of offers and requests at european level poses obvious logistical and resource problems; - this system tends to promote 'brain drain' and thus to deepen inequalities between southern and eastern europe and northern and western europe; - eures ('european employment pole') promotes blackmailing mobility, according to which an unemployed person would not want to work unless he is ready to take up an offer in europe, wherever it may be, which could potentially pose difficulties with regard to unemployment benefits; - this system promotes the uprooting of workers, the european single labour market as the only institutional alternative to unemployment and the precariousness of employment. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ since 1993, the union has been equipped with a european employment database as part of a cooperation network between the european commission, the public employment services of the member states of the union and partners (employment agencies, trade unions, employers' associations). this database was intended to allow the pooling of job vacancies and cvs and to provide additional matching possibilities between vacancies and unemployed persons. this database quickly became obsolete and many gaps were found. the regulation is intended to modernise this system. at a time when the european union has more than 22 million unemployed, and although i have no illusions about the effectiveness of such tools as long as we keep the union's workers competitive, i believe that no tool can be refused on the grounds of primary anti-europeanism. the national front has chosen the opposite, once again revealing its true social choices. - what's the deed?
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. the text is intended to help tunisia, whose economy is being seriously disrupted by the suicide bombings that have been taking place in the country. however, the announced measures would affect european olive growers, as the price of olive oil has been steadily falling for about ten years. the commission is not taking this reality into account and is making proposals which will put our olive growers at risk, when tunisia could have been helped by other means.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's economy is currently in a serious crisis, due in particular to the terrorist attacks it is facing. the european commission, to help him, is advocating an increase of 35 000 tonnes in the import of olive oil free of customs duties. the quantity of exempt tunisian olive oil is currently 56,700 tonnes. this measure applies for the year 2016. i have voted against this report because i think that this decision will cause difficulties for european olive growers.
in writing. ‒ to help tunisia, whose economy is severely affected by the sharp drop in tourist arrivals due to the terrorist risk and political instability in the country, the commission proposes an additional tariff-free quota of 30 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the union. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. the measure is expected to last until 31 december 2017. we could have helped tunisia in other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty. do we need to remind the commission that the price of olive oil has been falling for the last 10 years? that is why i voted against this false good idea.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the eu for the years 2016-2017 without customs duties. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. unfortunately, this mechanism will put european oil producers even more at risk, since the price of oil has been falling continuously for the last 10 years. the commission is thus applying foreign preference and sacrificing european olive oil producers in order to support the tunisian economy. this report is the very symbol of the failure of the europeanist logic. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency trade measures in favour of tunisia. to this end, the commission is proposing an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil for export from tunisia to the union, free of customs duties. this will be a challenge for european olive growers, who have already seen the price of olive oil fall for the past ten years. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. in concrete terms, the commission wishes to support tunisia, which is facing a dual crisis, terrorist and economic, following the terrible attacks that struck that country on 25 november 2015. the proposal for a regulation provides for the granting of an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil imported free of customs duty, compared with the current quota of 56 700 tonnes. the granting of this new advantage will have a serious impact on the italian and french olive oil sectors, but it will not solve the fundamental problems facing tunisia. once again, the european union believes that punishing european producers will put an end to the islamist terrorism that is raging around the mediterranean. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposed in september 2015 the unilateral and temporary introduction of a zero-duty tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for olive oil exports from tunisia to the european union for a period of two years. the purpose of this proposal is to help tunisia after the sousse bombings in june 2015 which had a negative impact on the country's economy. olive oil is a very important part of the tunisian economy. i voted in favour of this report. i think it is very important to help neighbouring countries, especially when they are victims of the abominations of terrorism. tunisia is in the midst of a democratic transition and we must absolutely support it in this perilous process. however, in a european context of agricultural crisis, we must ensure that this type of measure does not endanger the european agricultural sector. the olive oil producers are mainly located in the southern countries of the union, which are also experiencing economic difficulties. i voted in favour of a text which guarantees a certain protection for european producers while at the same time allowing aid to be given to tunisia.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to grant the republic of tunisia a zero-duty tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the union, in the form of autonomous trade measures, for a period of 2 years, from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. this additional volume would be opened as soon as the current zero-duty tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes, included in the agreement, is exhausted. while the european commission did not provide a real impact assessment, i was in favour of limiting the scope of the regulation and setting up monthly monitoring and control tools for the 2016 quota, subject to its renewal for 2017. indeed, agriculture cannot always be the adjustment variable of diplomacy. nevertheless, considering the historical links and the shared geopolitical challenges with tunisia, i am in favour of this unilateral measure actually benefiting tunisian producers, countries that have been hit hard, including economically, by the terrorist attacks of 26 june 2015 in sousse. for these reasons, and although my position has not been fully taken up, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting tunisia emergency autonomous trade measures with a zero-duty tariff quota for olive oil exports from tunisia to the european union for a period of two years. it is important, through these trade measures, to support tunisia, whose already fragile economy has been further destabilised by the terrorist attacks. in order to ensure that these measures do not harm european agriculture, the european parliament's text strengthens the regulation and introduces a mid-term review allowing the european commission to propose corrective measures if the union market is destabilised.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's democracy is under severe strain, having been hit by terrorism three times in 2015. conscious of the difficulties facing the country and the importance of the olive oil sector in tunisian exports to the european union, i voted in favour of the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. we are therefore voting to introduce, on a temporary basis, a zero-duty tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for olive oil exports to the european union, applicable from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. this volume will only be available when the current tariff quota of 56 700 tonnes at zero duty, as set out in the association agreement between tunisia and the union, is exhausted. however, i did not agree to vote for this report simply because we have obtained solid guarantees for our european producers. the impact of this measure on the european olive oil market will be assessed mid-term, so we leave the possibility of considering the adoption of corrective measures if the context warrants it. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wanted to support tunisia, which was weakened by the terrorist attacks. it therefore proposed to exempt tunisia from customs duties for the export of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil to the eu from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. this proposal is clearly causing difficulties for european olive growers, in a context where spanish production has already been weakened by drought and italy by the bacterium xylella fastidiosa. the latter now affects france, particularly in corsica and on the côte d'azur. in addition, tunisia, the world's largest exporter of olive oil, is already benefiting greatly from the recent increase in oil prices, which is precisely the result of this situation. in order to defend our olive growers, particularly in corsica, i naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ on thursday 25 february, i voted in favour of an emergency plan allowing tunisia to import an additional 70,000 tonnes of its virgin olive oil duty-free into the european union for the years 2016 and 2017. tunisia has come a long way since the arab spring, and it is one of the few countries that has actually achieved a democratic transition. with this text, the european union wanted to support the country in its democratic process and economic stability through the development of its olive oil production, which represents many jobs. however, to address the concerns of european olive oil producers, additional safeguards are introduced, such as a mid-term evaluation and the updating of the measures if they prove harmful to european olive oil producers, as well as a 'monitoring clause', i.e. the obligation to ensure that all olive oil under the quota is produced entirely in the country and transported directly from tunisia.
in writing. ‒ in view of the collapse of tourism in tunisia, the european commission decided to support this partner by offering, from 1 january 2016 and for two years, a unilateral tariff quota with zero duty for a volume of 35 000 tonnes per year of olive oil exported to the eu. this support for the tunisian economy is essential to combat the spread of radical islamism which feeds on misery and poverty. however, olive oil is the main agricultural export product of tunisia to the union. i have supported this proposal because i believe it provides sufficient guarantees to prevent european producers from being confronted with unfair competition. for example, the measures are temporary and exceptional and coercive measures may be taken if the situation deteriorates in europe. so while i remain vigilant about the effects of these measures on european producers who also need eu support to maintain their activities and combat the olive tree killer bacteria, i believe that it is in our interest to help our partners when they are affected by the waves of terrorism as we have been recently.
in writing. ‒ we have decided to table an amendment to reject the commission's proposal on these emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. apart from this wish to reject the proposal, i do not think that it improves the original text too much. this report proposes zero customs duties for 35,000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil, which i consider to be an aberration in the interests of the european union. we could have helped tunisia in other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been trending downwards for the last 10 years, affecting european producers. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs marielle de sarnez, on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. the aim is to exempt from customs duties a quota of exports of tunisian olive oil. these measures are temporary and exceptional and an impact analysis on european producers will be carried out mid-term. olive oil is one of the only sources of agricultural exports from tunisia to the european union, whose sector supports more than a million people. it is important to support tunisia and thus its democratic process which, while being one of the most advanced in the region, is threatened by significant security challenges, making it essential to support the stability of the tunisian economy. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ after the arab revolutions, tunisia is the only country to turn towards a genuine democratic transition. the recent attacks on tunisian soil have severely weakened the country's economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism, and it is important to support this country. the measures proposed here will help it to sell its olive oil production and create jobs in order to regain economic growth and political stability. the olive oil sector in tunisia is economically important and provides many jobs. this regulation grants an additional tariff quota of olive oil free of customs duties to tunisia (35 000 tonnes per year) for two years. the exceptional and temporary nature of these measures means that they will not have any impact on our producers. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution to support our tunisian friends in their democratic transition.
in writing. ‒ to help the tunisian economy, the commission proposed to grant us 35,000 tonnes of import quotas without customs duties for tunisian olive oil for the years 2016 and 2017. these quotas have, however, been strongly criticised by farmers in the south of the european union. they have just suffered a drop in production due to a bacterial attack on olive trees, and they are worried about seeing tunisian olive oil take the market share they have lost. since the commission has not given a clear answer to these doubts and the amendments i tabled calling for safeguard measures for producers have not been adopted, i decided to abstain because i also did not want to block a measure which could help the tunisian economy. i would point out, however, that there are many other ways of helping the tunisian economy, starting with the revision of its debt, or the conditions we attach to our financial aid, rather than taking measures which threaten european producers and set them against tunisian ones.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for the republic of tunisia. to help tunisia, whose economy is being seriously affected by the terrorist attacks, the commission is proposing an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the european union, free of customs duties. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. the measure will be implemented from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. there are many other ways in which we could have helped tunisia without putting european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been trending downwards for the last 10 years, affecting european producers. the commission does not care about that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, in line with my speech in plenary on this subject. the commission is of the view that tunisia should be assisted, as its economy has suffered severely since the terrorist attacks in sousse in june 2015. to this end, it proposes to introduce an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil for export to the eu, free of customs duties. the current quota is already 56,700 tonnes. the commission could have helped tunisia in many ways. but it has chosen by this decision to support tunisian trade while putting european olive growers (including the french) in difficulty. i cannot accept this decision which is hurting a sector which is already in difficulty, given the trend of falling prices which has been observed for the last 10 years.
in writing. ‒ a wave of terrorist attacks hit tunisia in 2015, putting a strain on this young democracy. the violence has had extremely painful economic consequences, particularly in the tourism sector, which has been particularly affected. the purpose of this legislative proposal is to allow the tunisian economy to recover somewhat by temporarily facilitating the export of tunisian olive oil to the european market. in doing so, the union is once again demonstrating the strength of its european commitment to the country. i am aware of the difficulties facing tunisia, a country which is a priority of the european union's neighbourhood policy, and i therefore support this legislative proposal.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against it. to help tunisia, whose economy is being badly affected by the terrorist attacks, the commission is proposing an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the eu, free of customs duties, compared with the current quota of 56 700 tonnes. we could have helped tunisia in other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been trending downwards for the last 10 years, affecting european producers.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks on the young tunisian democracy have dealt a severe blow to its economy. in order to support the country, the european union is proposing an exceptional and temporary measure to increase the import quotas for olive oil without customs duties. it is supplemented by a mechanism to compensate for any adverse effects on european production, or even to suspend the measure. this form of aid is not without interest for eu oil exporters - who process tunisian oil on our soil before exporting it. it is therefore regrettable that the eu has not chosen to give the country the means to improve its own oil processing infrastructure. if the reason given is to support the democratic transition, then the cancellation of the tunisian debt, which is largely owned by european states, would have been a much better economic and political solution for a debt, let us remember, contracted by the dictator ben ali and his corrupt gang. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the european union, under the guise of 'humanism', is preparing to come to defend the interests of tunisia against those of the producers of southern europe, italy in particular. the commission wants to impose additional quotas without customs duties: (35 000 tonnes of olive oil, while its current import is 56 700 tonnes). this will create unfair competition for this sector in crisis. the prices have fallen over the last ten years, so it is not appropriate to make the situation worse. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ we vote against these measures which are to allow the additional import of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil from tunisia to the european union without customs duties. there are other measures to help the tunisian economy, which has been disrupted by the terrorist attacks, than to continue to harass european oil producers.
in writing. ‒ to help tunisia, whose economy is severely affected by terrorist attacks, the commission proposes an additional tariff-free quota of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil exports to the eu. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. there are many other ways in which we could have helped tunisia without putting european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been trending downwards for the last 10 years, affecting european producers. the commission does not care about that. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. this report aims to grant tunisia 35 000 tonnes of olive oil import quotas to the union for the years 2016 and 2017. as european oil production has fallen, this measure is helping tunisian producers without significantly upsetting european producers.
in writing. ‒ to help tunisia, whose economy is severely affected by terrorist attacks, the commission proposes an additional tariff-free quota of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil exports to the eu. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. the measure will be implemented from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. other ways of helping tunisia could have been done without putting european olive growers in difficulty, who are already suffering from the xylella fastidiosa outbreak. i believe that the european commission should first of all be concerned with finding solutions to the economic problems of the european union, including those which it has created itself, before claiming to help others. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the commission's proposal for a regulation to grant a unilateral tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes free of customs duties for the export of olive oil from tunisia to the european union for a period of two years. tunisia has recently experienced several waves of attacks that have led to the collapse of the tourism sector, an important economic resource for the country. the olive oil sector plays an important role in the tunisian economy and these exceptional and temporary measures will help tunisia to stabilise its economic situation and to continue its democratic process. the text also calls for this additional quota to be avoided and abused and for all tunisian producers, including small producers, to benefit from it. i would also like to stress that, in view of the agricultural crisis and in order not to penalise our farmers, the text adopted includes a mid-term review of the effects of this regulation and allows for corrective measures to be taken to restore the situation on the european market should it be destabilised.
in writing. ‒ to help tunisia, whose economy is severely affected by terrorist attacks, the commission proposes an additional tariff-free quota of 35 000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil exports to the eu. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. the measure will be implemented from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. we could have helped tunisia in other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to adopt a motion for a resolution authorising the mobilisation of the european mobilization fund to the tune of eur 1.96 million to help reintegrate into the labour market 412 workers made redundant in the glass manufacturing sector in belgium and to provide training aid for 100 young people without a diploma. consequence of overcapacity and overproduction in china in the glass sector, exerting downward pressure on prices. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the hypocritical system of the 'globalization adjustment fund', which is emblematic of a european union that behaves like a pyromaniac firefighter, but i voted in favour of this report which proposes to release eur 1.96 million to help reintegrate into the labour market 412 workers made redundant in the glass manufacturing sector in belgium. these redundancies are mainly due to chinese overproduction: once again, by refusing to protect our industries from unfair competition from outside europe, the european union is reduced to minimizing the disastrous consequences of its irresponsibility.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to enable the egf to be mobilised following a request from belgium for a financial contribution following redundancies in the manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products in hainaut and namur. the event which triggered the redundancies was the closure of two production sites in wallonia owned respectively by the two companies, agc europe sa and saint-gobain glass benelux. the number of redundancies recorded was 412 units for a contribution to the coordinated package of personalised services of eur 1 095 544. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal in order to support the workers in this sector who are suffering from globalisation and the increase in asian imports. this sector has seen a 32% decline in employment in the eu since 2000.
in writing. ‒ in the present case, the emff instrument was requested following the dismissal of 412 employees, 144 of whom were made redundant at the roux production site and 268 following the closure of the auvelais production site (province of namur). this report recalls that trade in glass products in the union is declining, due in particular to the overcapacity of china, which leads to drastic pressure on prices. the implementation of this fund therefore shows that the destruction of hundreds of jobs is primarily the result of unfair competition which directly threatens our industrial successes and leaves hundreds of workers unemployed. it then deals only with the consequences by mobilising eur 1.96 million to help reintegrate these dismissed workers into the labour market. i am aware, however, of the usefulness of this sum to finance plans for re-employment, and i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of two companies, ags europe sa and saint-gobain, located in the province of hainaut in belgium. the amount of the aid is eur 1 095 544. 412 redundant employees will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the mobilisation of the fund was justified and necessary in view of the difficulties faced by the glass production sector. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, for the first time in 2016, for the glass-making egf company in hainaut-namur (belgium), following the dismissal of 412 workers between 31 august 2014 and 31 may 2015. the eu has allocated eur 1 095 544 to the egf. this will also benefit 100 young people who are unemployed, without qualifications or training. the wallonia region, with its long tradition in glass production, has been hit by a recession and a sharp rise in unemployment for several years: + 19% between 2007 and 2012. i voted in favour of the objectives of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to support belgium, which is facing massive redundancies in the glass sector. the mobilisation of this fund, amounting to eur 1 095 544, is intended to help reintegrate those workers who have suffered the consequences of globalisation into the world of work.
in writing. ‒ the text highlights the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1.96 million to help reintegrate 412 workers made redundant in the glassmaking sector in belgium into the labour market and to help train 100 young people without a diploma. it should be noted that these redundancies are mainly due to overcapacity caused by china's overproduction in the glass sector, thus exerting downward pressure on prices. this is the positive aspect of this text. the text then responds to this situation which we can only blame. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tomáš zdechovský on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of belgium for the redundant employees of agc europe sa and saint-gobain. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs. the fund will provide eur 1 095 544 for 412 redundant workers. this amount will be used to finance training, counselling and support services to promote the recruitment of these dismissed workers. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 400 belgian workers made redundant in 2014 in a glass production company. the fund will promote the reintegration of these dismissed workers through training, counselling and support. the wallonia region, and specifically namur and hainaut, lost more than 1 800 jobs in 2014 in this sector. it was therefore necessary to mobilise this fund in a region which has historically been a glass-producing region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the provinces of namur and hainaut in belgium. the aim is to reintegrate 412 workers into the labour market and to help about 100 young people without qualifications to undergo training. the redundancies are mainly related to overcapacity and overproduction in china in the glass sector, exerting downward pressure on prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it mobilises eur 1.96 million mainly to help 412 workers made redundant in belgium in the glass manufacturing sector. these redundancies are due to competition from china which has brought down prices in this sector because of the reckless opening of european borders decided by the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund covers almost 500 redundancies in two companies in the deindustrialised belgian region of wallonia, including saint-gobain. it is not its first misdeed locally but also in france with a big plan to lay off 400 jobs in 2008. the company, despite a net profit up 114 per cent to €671 million, sold its glass subsidiary to a us investment fund this summer and is also trying to establish itself in indonesia. all of this is not without a connection. and the eu continues to look elsewhere and to ask the unemployed to become self-employed. this fund is contributing once again to the irresponsibility of companies and social dumping. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in belgium, 412 workers were made redundant in the glass production sector. this is mainly due to the chinese overproduction and overcapacity in this area, which is exerting downward pressure on prices. the aim of the egf's 1.96 million is to help these workers reintegrate and to help train around 100 young people without qualifications. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we are in favour of the principle of mobilising european funds to counter the disastrous effects of the unbridled globalisation imposed by the euro-oligarchy. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. this report concerns aid for the training of 412 dismissed workers and 100 neet young people (not students, employees or trainees) in the hainaut and namur regions. some of these workers were made redundant following the closure of the production plants in roux and auvelais, which were the victims of increased competition from the asian glass market and relocations. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this request concerns aid for glassworkers made redundant in belgium. the chinese overproduction in the sector is causing an overall fall in prices which is affecting factories in europe. i deplore the european union's aberrant policy, always ready to open up even more to global competition without ever considering the consequences for employment and growth in the member states. once again, the globalisation adjustment fund is only serving to relieve some of the distress caused by stupid decisions. i do not want to refuse aid to workers who have been mistreated by the european union, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the eu to contribute up to €1 million to help workers made redundant in the glass sector in belgium. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has made it possible to respond to the redundancies of 412 employees; the commission has also been active in the area of employment. i supported this report which also stresses the importance of improving the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of skills acquired throughout their working careers. it is crucial that the eu has financial instruments and means such as the egf to respond quickly and effectively to economic situations of this scale.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a large majority the report by tomáš zdechovský calling for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of €1 million for 412 workers made redundant in saint-gobain glass-owned factories. saint-gobain glass is not in its first attempt to obtain the european globalisation adjustment fund, as its redundant workers already benefited from it in 2015. this follows a plan to lay off 4,000 workers in france in 2008. the report highlights the declining situation of the glass industry and employment in wallonia in the face of asian competition. but at no point is the report mentioning the shareholders' heavy responsibility for these layoffs or the relocation plans! european public funds must not replace the responsibilities of large companies. i therefore voted against this report, as i always do when it comes to large companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which represents the european parliament's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the first half of 2016. the text proposes to boost domestic demand through higher public and private investment than under the juncker plan and low rates. these are the same measures that have led to the economic destruction of france and many other european countries. the text also reflects the eu's aim of unifying national economies around a federalised and liberalised system. i cannot therefore support this text.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the ep's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 semester and follows the annual growth survey published by the commission. the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area specific problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and regional development policies. the report proposes to boost domestic demand through public and private investment above that of the juncker plan. i voted against the report because it is an ideological tool designed to unify national economies around a federalised and liberalised system and because it makes illusory proposals to revive the economies of the eu countries.
in writing. ‒ this report represents parliament's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 semester and follows the annual growth study published by the commission. the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and the famous 'regional development policies'. in general, the report proposes to boost domestic demand by public and private investment in excess of that in the juncker plan, especially in the presence of low interest rates. but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness. it is also concerned about the macroeconomic and social disparities which are only slowly narrowing. however, the report is above all an ideological tool aimed at unifying national economies around an increasingly federalised and liberalised system. i cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states: i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report represents parliament's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 semester and follows the annual growth survey published by the commission. the report covers a range of topics from investment to the environment and more generally, it proposes to strengthen domestic demand through strong private and public investment (cf. low rates). nevertheless, it remains a highly ideologically oriented report, since its aim is to unify the national economies of the states for a federalised and liberalised system. i can only fight against this report and these hopes which are only illusory since it is these european policies which have led to the destruction of our economies, our jobs and growth in europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the ep's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 semester and follows the annual growth survey published by the commission. the report is above all an ideological tool aimed at unifying national economies around a federalised and liberalised system. i cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the very principle of defining a european semester, which is only a tool of coercion for the commission and against the member states. the european semester sets out country-specific recommendations and requires member states to implement them. in addition to the usual platitudes about unemployment and the increase in public debts of the states, the report still advocates the continuation of the leap forward of austerity policies contained in the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i voted against this text, because i am firmly opposed to this economically absurd and suicidal strategy.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth review is the first stage of the european semester. this review, prepared by the european commission, highlights the additional measures that member states should take to support their growth and achieve the social and economic objectives of europe 2020. the european parliament's report is a response to the commission's work on this matter. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance for member states of meeting their european commitments under the stability and growth pact by implementing the necessary structural reforms. i was able to reiterate my position in favour of simplifying the regulatory framework for employment in some member states and the urgent need to adapt our pension systems to the reality of ageing populations.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report defends the european parliament's position following the european commission's first annual review of growth in 2016, as part of the european semester. the latter aims to strengthen the coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call for the full implementation of the stability and growth pact, while demonstrating flexibility, in particular to address the challenges of refugees and security. i have supported this report because i believe that tax relief for labour should be one of the priority reforms in europe.
in writing. ‒ the economic recommendations supported by this report are in keeping with the european union's federalist and ultra-liberal ideology. it would like to integrate ever more fully the policies of the states, whereas the latter are already deprived of the monetary instrument and their customs policy, which are european competences. as is often the case, the text is quite realistic in its assessment of the situation, for example when it highlights persistent macroeconomic and social disparities. unfortunately, the solutions proposed are not in the interest of the states. i am committed to the sovereignty of the member states and do not wish to support solutions which have already proved ineffective, so i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report promotes the european semester, which considers the free movement of people, goods, services and capital as the cornerstone of sustainable economic growth within the eu's single market. the european semester therefore advocates a federalist and ultra-liberal economy, which i strongly oppose, in accordance with the spirit of sovereignty which we have always defended. it exists only to enable the objectives of the 2020 strategy, a european union strategy to which i am hostile, to be achieved. we cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague maria joão rodrigues on the annual growth survey 2016 in the context of the european semester for economic policy coordination. the report stresses the need for the eu economies to undertake structural reforms and fiscal accountability. the 2016 annual growth survey calls for a revival of investment and underlines the importance of european funds to be used to their full potential. i support this report which sets out the guidelines needed to strengthen european growth. this report has been adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey identifies three priorities that need to be addressed at eu level for member states to return to growth. the priorities for 2016 will be to boost investment, pursue structural reforms and finally responsible tax policies. the report does not forget to emphasize the need to use european funds. these proposals are essential if the union is to return to stable and sustainable growth. i therefore voted in favour of these priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination (annual growth survey 2016). in general, the report proposes to boost domestic demand through higher public and private investment than in the juncker plan, especially in the presence of low interest rates. but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness. it is also concerned about the macroeconomic and social disparities which are only slowly narrowing. however, the report is above all an ideological tool aimed at unifying national economies around a federalised and liberalised system. the hope expressed in this report that the recommendations will be able to revive the european economy is part of the technocratic illusions of brussels. i cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it promotes the european semester, which calls for the establishment of a federalised and ultra-liberal economy. the enl group supported an amendment tabled by the efdd group of the englishman nigel farage which called for stopping the tafta negotiations and preventing china from gaining the status of a "market economy" (which will open our borders even more to it!), but this amendment was rejected by the rps and its european allies.
in writing. - i voted against this report. in general, the report proposes to boost domestic demand through public and private investment in excess of that in the juncker plan. he is concerned about the macroeconomic and social disparities which are only slowly narrowing. the report is above all an ideological tool whose aim is to unify national economies around a federalised and liberalised system. the hope expressed in this report that the recommendations will be able to revive the european economy is part of the technocratic illusions of brussels. we cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the implementation logic of the european semester. while it does express some criticism of the country-specific recommendations, it is nevertheless imbued with liberal dogma: it advocates structural reforms and fiscal consolidation, the completion of the banking union, the reduction of employers' contributions, the reform of social protection and pension systems, the adaptation of education and research systems to the needs of the market... all this while calling for a greater role for the european parliament, ostensibly for democratic reasons and more surely to legitimise the policies implemented. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ while the state of affairs is quite clear in this report, the recommendations are equally strikingly simple. it is a long lament about our present economic anxieties, which unfortunately cannot be removed by the intercession of european ideology. this report leaves no doubt about its worthlessness. i am opposed to the principle of this european semester, which has no reason to exist except to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 programme. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the ep's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 semester and follows the annual growth survey published by the commission. the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area specific problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and regional development policies. however, the report is above all an ideological tool aimed at unifying national economies around a federalised and liberalised system. the hope expressed in this report that the recommendations will be able to revive the european economy is part of the technocratic illusions of brussels. we cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states.
in writing. ‒ the report is above all an ideological tool aimed at unifying national economies around a federalised and liberalised system. i cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states of the european union. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. this report concerns the implementation of the european semester. although it is rather critical of the country-by-country recommendations, it does mention the need for employment and a better budget for the union. the report does not highlight the role of the institutions in the liberal measures taken in recent years which have led to a deterioration in socioeconomic conditions in many member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report praises the european semester, a system which i oppose and which reality tends to prove wrong too. he is advocating an ever more federal and ever more liberal european economic system, which i cannot accept in any way. so i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ as europe struggles to emerge from an economic crisis and faces a serious migration crisis, the report by maria joão rodrigues sets out economic policy priorities for the european union as part of the european semester coordination process. the report stresses the importance of aligning economic policies with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it advocates the correction of macroeconomic imbalances through a coordinated effort by the member states. the european parliament calls for more support for domestic demand, in particular through increased investment. these will have to be particularly oriented towards training and innovation. the report stresses the need to improve tax collection and the fight against tax fraud and evasion. finally, it stressed the usefulness of the european semester and encouraged its efficiency to be improved in order to coordinate economic policies more closely, to make it more democratic and to include new objectives such as those relating to the environment. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which expresses the european parliament's views on the european semester, particularly as regards economic policies. as we seek to revive growth and create jobs, this resolution stresses the need to strengthen european coordination of economic policies between member states and to adopt a comprehensive approach combining investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility policies. the first is to highlight national efforts to implement structural reforms; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is crucial to strengthen domestic demand, address macroeconomic imbalances and swiftly implement the banking union. i supported this text which calls for the european fund for strategic investments to be used to the maximum of its potential in order to pursue a coherent and coordinated industrial policy. finally, in order to confirm the economic recovery within the eu, it is necessary, particularly in the euro area, to encourage genuine economic and social convergence and better european coordination of social and fiscal standards.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the european parliament's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 semester and follows the annual growth survey published by the commission. the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area specific problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and regional development policies. in general, the report proposes to boost domestic demand through higher public and private investment than under the juncker plan, especially in the presence of low interest rates. but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness. it is also concerned about the macroeconomic and social disparities which are only slowly narrowing. however, the report is above all an ideological tool aimed at unifying national economies around a federalised and liberalised system. the hope expressed in this report that the recommendations will be able to revive the european economy is part of the technocratic illusions of brussels. we cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of european coordination of economic and budgetary policies, the european semester, set up after the 2008 financial crisis, should, we are told, make it possible to monitor the implementation of the so-called structural reforms and the reduction of budget deficits, we know what this means. and the least that can be said is that the dramatic consequences of the austerity policies deployed on the european continent are once again largely obscured by this annual report of parliament on the european semester. symptomatic of this hypocrisy, several paragraphs acknowledge that member states, whose budgets are cut by austerity, are no longer able to protect and promote vital sectors such as education, health, research and innovation, but without asking themselves about the causes of these regrettable findings. it is high time to put an end to these deadly austerity policies and to promote alternative policies based on a different distribution of wealth and other priorities that meet the needs of the people and not those of money and finance. i voted against the various reports on this subject, as did all the members of my group.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. as every year, this text welcomes the commission's assessments. it offers no concrete recommendations other than to combat the ills known for years: unemployment, undeclared work, low fertility rates, ageing... i am also fundamentally opposed to this european semester which is only a tool for the commission to evaluate the work of the member states and to interfere more in the affairs of the countries.
in writing. ‒ the recommendations developed in this report are of flagrant futility, such as, for example, the development of skills and abilities through training, the fight against undeclared work, the modernisation of social systems to cope with ageing, etc. the commission is opposed in principle to the existence of this six-month period: it is only a tool for the commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. as for the country-specific recommendations, they are just another way for the commission to interfere in the functioning of countries. finally, this semester exists only to enable the objectives of the eu's strategy 2020 to be achieved, a strategy to which we are firmly opposed. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report represents parliament's participation in the definition of economic policy priorities for the 2016 semester and follows the annual growth study published by the commission. the topics covered in this report are investment, structural reforms, fiscal responsibility, euro area problems, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester and budgetary policies, the environment and public health, and the famous 'regional development policies'. in general, the report proposes to boost domestic demand by public and private investment in excess of that in the juncker plan, especially in the presence of low interest rates. but these investments must remain sustainable in view of the very high levels of indebtedness. it is also concerned about the macroeconomic and social disparities which are only slowly narrowing. however, the report is above all an ideological tool aimed at unifying national economies around an increasingly federalised and liberalised system. i cannot support recommendations for economic reforms which have destroyed the economy of france and many other member states: i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which only endorses the fact that brussels has placed national governments under its control in their economic policy. this is the project announced by the famous european semester, since the commission makes 'recommendations' to the member states every year, like a doctor to his patient. the same applies to employment and social aspects. while recognising the glaring malfunctions that persist in social matters, such as too high a youth unemployment rate or a european labour force lacking in qualifications, parliament, in this report, merely congratulates its master, the european commission, on its recommendations. the latter are, however, just empty declarations of intent. the fight against undeclared work and the development of skills are promising, but in fact there are no concrete proposals in the text to achieve these objectives. finally, the commission's interference in the social and economic life of the member states is clearly done in an ultra-liberal perspective of austerity, which has been murdering the european peoples since 2008.
in writing. ‒ in the main, apart from the flagrant uselessness of this report, i object to the very existence of this half-yearly report: it is only a tool for the commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. the country-specific recommendations are just another way of finding the commission to interfere in the way countries operate. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the very principle of defining a european semester, which is only a tool of coercion for the commission and against the member states. the european semester sets out country-specific recommendations and requires member states to implement them. in addition to the usual platitudes about unemployment and the increase in public debts of the states, the report still advocates the continuation of the leap forward of austerity policies contained in the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i voted against this text, because i am firmly opposed to this economically absurd and suicidal strategy.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the european semester, the annual growth review is a first step in highlighting the additional measures that member states can take to achieve the economic and social objectives of europe 2020. this report is parliament's response to this examination. in this report, parliament focuses on the social indicators in the european semester. this year three new indicators were taken into account: longterm unemployment, youth unemployment and the activity rate. member states must implement the structural reforms needed to create growth and jobs. i voted in favour of this report. it was an opportunity for me to reiterate my position in favour of the fight against social dumping within the union.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's position on social and employment issues, following the european commission's first review of growth in 2016. during the year, the commission put forward ambitious proposals to support employment and growth, strengthen economic convergence and social equality. supporting these same priorities for 2016, the european commission proposes to step up its efforts on boosting investment, deepening structural reforms to modernise the economy and adopting responsible fiscal policies. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is an urgent need to tackle macroeconomic imbalances, particularly in employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text for several reasons. on the one hand, it merely recalls the evidence relating to unemployment rates and the skills of the labour force, or to hidden work and public debt. on the other hand, the solutions which are supposed to overcome these problems are pathetic and are part of a series of recommendations which have shown their limitations. for example, flexi-security only increases precariousness and training policies do not prevent states from moving away from full employment in a lasting way. finally, i do not want to support the european semester, the european union's instrument which reduces the states' room for manoeuvre, in order to continue to support a failing system and a 2020 strategy which we are opposing.
in writing. ‒ the report's recommendations are disconcerting: it calls for the development of skills and abilities through training, it supports the fight against undeclared work and promotes flexicurity (which is generally translated into precariousness), it intends to modernise social systems to cope with ageing and it does not fail to raise questions about low fertility rates in europe. in addition to these considerations, we strongly oppose the very existence of this european semester as it is only a tool for the european commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. as for the country-specific recommendations, they are just another way for the european commission to intervene in the functioning of countries. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms sofia ribeiro, on employment and social aspects in the context of the annual growth survey 2016. since that year the commission has introduced three new indicators to measure macroeconomic imbalances more precisely in order to combat unemployment better. the commission has thus set out ambitious targets for employment and growth which need to be further consolidated and strengthened by policy action. i supported this report, which is very much in that vein. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ following the annual growth survey, the commission proposed a number of priorities on employment and social aspects in the context of the annual growth survey for 2016. with unemployment still very high in the european union, particularly among young people, it is important that member states invest in training and education and fulfil the commitments they have made under europe 2020. the fact that the commission has strong social and employment equity objectives is a good thing. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is in line with the commission's proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies on employment and social aspects in the context of the annual growth survey 2016. the report's recommendations are lamentably plain: it calls for the development of skills and abilities through training, the fight against undeclared work, the promotion of flexicurity (which is generally translated into precariousness), the modernisation of social systems to cope with ageing, the question of low fertility rates in europe... in essence, apart from the blatant uselessness of this report, i object to the very existence of this half-yearly report: it is only a tool for the commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. as for the country-specific recommendations, they are just another way for the commission to interfere in the way countries operate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it merely lists the obvious (we must fight undeclared work, etc.) and praises the european semester, which is nothing more than an instrument to facilitate the commission's interference in national policies.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey launches the european semester by setting out the union's overall economic priorities for the coming year. it's the first step in the annual cycle. the joint employment report annexed to the report assesses the social and employment situation in the union. this own-initiative report contains many important progressive proposals, such as the fight against the social dumping which is so necessary in europe, in particular by introducing a minimum wage in all the member states of the union. the text also calls on member states to invest more in social protection systems to prevent poverty and inequality. it also emphasises investment in education and the strengthening of the youth guarantee to combat youth unemployment. this own-initiative report clearly promotes employment reforms based on solidarity, integration, social justice and an equitable distribution of wealth; i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this report is a sad platitude: it calls for the development of skills and abilities through training, the fight against undeclared work, the promotion of flexicurity (which is generally translated into precariousness), the modernisation of social systems to cope with ageing, the question of low fertility rates in europe... in addition to the flagrant uselessness of this report, we object to the very existence of this half-yearly report: it is only a tool for the commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. as for the country-specific recommendations, they are just another way of interfering in the way countries operate. finally, this semester exists only to enable the objectives of the eu strategy 2020 to be achieved, a strategy to which we strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report of the european parliament amends the commission communication on the annual growth survey 2016: consolidating recovery and convergence. the commission's text as always emphasizes competitiveness, entrepreneurship and the reduction of the tax burden. it also aims to defend the policies of companies arguing for example that unemployment has been decreasing since 2013 thanks to favourable macroeconomic policies and the impact of structural reforms . or by welcoming the results achieved by the efsi in its first year of implementation . the european parliament proposes to take into account new social indicators such as the employment rate, youth unemployment and longterm unemployment, but the text is nonetheless a liberal and dogmatic litany. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ while the state of affairs is quite clear in this report, the recommendations are equally strikingly simple. it is a long lament about our present economic anxieties, which unfortunately cannot be removed by the intercession of european ideology. this report leaves no doubt about its worthlessness. i am opposed to the principle of this european semester, which has no reason to exist except to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 programme. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report follows the annual growth survey published by the commission. it focuses on the employment and social part of the european semester and takes stock of the results. clearly, this report welcomes the european commission's assessments and recommendations. the report then lists a number of obvious findings: unemployment is falling in europe but unemployment rates among young people and the elderly remain too high, the european labour force is seriously unskilled, there is too much undeclared work, the public debts of the member states are constantly increasing... the recommendations that follow these findings are: developing skills and abilities through training, combating undeclared work, promoting flexicurity (which is generally translated into precariousness), modernising social systems to cope with ageing, and a study of low fertility rates in europe. we therefore oppose this report, which is very useless and is only a tool for the commission to interfere in the functioning of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i object to the very existence of this semester: it is only a tool for the commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. as for the country-specific recommendations, they are just another way for the commission to intervene in the functioning of countries. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. this own-initiative report concerns the commission communication of 26 november 2015 entitled 'annual growth survey 2016: strengthening recovery and convergence', which covers, inter alia, competitiveness, productivity, entrepreneurship, flexicurity, reduction of taxes on wages, or legislation on the labour law system. the report aims to address the unemployment rate in the eu and the gender pay gap, which are still far too wide. however, despite the many statements in this text, no concrete solution is provided, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights many facts: unemployment in europe is falling, but unemployment rates among young people and the elderly remain too high, the european labour force is seriously unskilled, there is too much undeclared work, the public debts of the member states are constantly increasing... the report's recommendations are also lamentable: it calls for the development of skills and abilities through training, the fight against undeclared work, the promotion of flexicurity (which is generally translated into precariousness), the modernisation of social systems to cope with ageing, and questions about low fertility rates in europe... in the main, apart from the flagrant uselessness of this report, i object to the very existence of this half-yearly report: it is only a tool for the commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. as for the country-specific recommendations, they are just another way the commission has found to interfere in the way countries operate. finally, this semester exists only to enable the objectives of the eu's strategy 2020 to be achieved, a strategy which i am opposed to. i therefore logically vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ almost 9% of the european labour force is unemployed. in 2014, nearly 5% had been married for more than a year and about 3% for more than two years. this is dramatic. this resolution makes some interesting proposals to remedy this. that's why i supported her. we need to invest in human resources. we call on the states to develop policies to promote youth employment. these policies must correspond to the real needs of the labour market. for example, instruments such as the youth guarantee must be fully used and strengthened. the commission should also promote, at member state level, an investment strategy covering the whole cycle of education and training, to ensure that all the working population benefits. in particular, there is a need to respond rapidly to the situation of the unemployed over the age of 55. the same is true for sustainable growth, in particular through a revival of investment. european funds and programmes are a suitable lever to stimulate entrepreneurship, investment and access to finance. we need to increase the information on these. improvements are observed at the level of the union and the euro area. let's keep going and keep trying.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies in terms of employment and social policies. in order to create jobs, it is necessary to stress that social and economic cohesion must remain the objective of all eu policies. this is achieved by encouraging upward social convergence in europe, by adapting education and training systems and by establishing a genuine investment strategy covering the whole cycle of education and training. it is crucial to engage in balanced structural reforms that are more sensitive to social equity. i supported this text which calls for stimulating growth by a sustainable relaxation of investment. finally, the resolution calls for the best possible use of european funds, such as the european social fund, which enable greater social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights many facts: unemployment in europe is falling, but unemployment rates among young people and older people remain too high, the european labour force is seriously unskilled, there is too much undeclared work, the public debts of the member states are constantly increasing... the report's recommendations are also very plain: it calls for the development of skills and abilities through training, the fight against undeclared work, the promotion of flexicurity (which is generally translated into precariousness), the modernisation of social systems to cope with ageing, and questions about low fertility rates in europe... in the main, apart from the flagrant uselessness of the report, we object to the very existence of the half-yearly report: it is only a tool for the commission to evaluate and judge the work of the member states. as for the country-specific recommendations, they are just an additional means for the commission to interfere in the functioning of the countries. finally, this semester exists only to enable the achievement of the objectives of the 2020 strategy, an eu strategy to which we strongly oppose. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of european coordination of economic and budgetary policies, the european semester, set up after the 2008 financial crisis, should, we are told, make it possible to monitor the implementation of the so-called structural reforms and the reduction of budget deficits, we know what this means. and the least that can be said is that the dramatic consequences of the austerity policies deployed on the european continent are once again largely obscured by this annual report of parliament on the european semester. symptomatic of this hypocrisy, several paragraphs acknowledge that member states, whose budgets are cut by austerity, are no longer able to protect and promote vital sectors such as education, health, research and innovation, but without asking themselves about the causes of these regrettable findings. it is high time to put an end to these deadly austerity policies and to promote alternative policies based on a different distribution of wealth and other priorities that meet the needs of the people and not those of money and finance. i voted against the various reports on this subject, as did all the members of my group.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016. the text here presents the single market as the great solution to the present european ills. the main features of this text are the harmonization of national policies, the sharing of data without limits, the free movement of data on a global basis and the establishment of a supranational supervisory body to verify the proper implementation of european directives and decisions. without questioning these european dogmas, the text praises them, since they have put our economies at risk. so i objected.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is a compilation of eu-wide statements, lists the threats to the single market, the main ones being, of course, 'national egos', the resurgence of nationalism/populism/protectionism... you name it! the solution is the single market, of course, with its digital component and via a supranational governance body. the text also recommends: sharing data without limits, strengthening the overall free movement of workers, capital, etc. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. protectionism is presented in a very crude way as a brake and an obstacle to productivity and competitiveness in the single market. finally, the integration of illegal immigrants and minorities and their access to the single market are high on the report's agenda. so, as long as the european union does not get rid of the dogmas that are parasitic on the intelligence of its representatives, i can only vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to give an overview of the threats to the single market, the main one being national egoism with the resurgence of nationalism/populism/protectionism etc... for the eurocrats, the only viable solution to the ills europe suffers from is the single market, with its digital component and through a supra-state governing body. this requires a harmonisation of 'regional' - i.e. national - policies within the eu and an increase in the overall free movement (!) of data, labour, capital, etc. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ i have firmly rejected this report which once again proves that most meps from the main political groups are only priests of the european federalist church. in their praise of the supposed benefits of a federal and ultra-liberal europe, they say with the utmost seriousness that if the singing tomorrows have not yet reached europe in terms of prosperity and security, it is simply because integration has not been completed. we must therefore always have more of a single market, more liberalisation of workers and capital and above all not let the cabal loose from the populist monster which seems to want to extend its grip on the wonderful european paradise by proposing protectionist measures in the economy and employment. this report on the governance of the single market is a veritable creed of european dogma, beating out alarming figures on the so-called cost of 'non-schengen' and on the so-called economic and social gains brought by the single market, a real 'notorious success' as this report dares to claim. but the people of europe no longer have the faith of the coal miner in this european union and are increasingly aware of the need to be protected.
in writing. ‒ the total lack of questioning and of a pragmatic analysis of the overall balance of the single market makes this text absurd. it must be rejected in its entirety. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016 praises european federalism as the only way to counter the current economic crisis and the rise of so-called populist parties. the text therefore calls for the creation of a monitoring body responsible for ensuring that the member states comply with european directives and commission recommendations. the rapporteur also stresses the need to encourage and promote the mobility of europeans in order to reduce regional disparities. this report is a series of overviews of how the european union contributes to individual well-being and the prosperity of our societies. at a time when most eu member states have been experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis since 2008, which has led to an increase in the number of jobseekers and a dramatic increase in social inequalities, it is absolutely indecent to witness the complacency of those responsible for this economic stagnation, who are resolutely determined never to question themselves again. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey, the first stage of the european semester, highlights the additional measures that member states should take to support their growth and achieve the europe 2020 social and economic objectives. this therefore allows the state of the european economy and the single market to be examined. this report highlights the importance of the single market in the european semester process. the european parliament reiterates the need to complete the single market in order to improve the competitiveness of the european economy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's recommendations to the single market in the european semester process for the year 2016, in view of the european council of 17 and 18 march. in this report we call for further integration of the internal market in order to remove non-tariff barriers to trade. the european semester, which aims to strengthen coordination between the economic policies of the member states, should make it possible to ensure better surveillance of the single market, so that it is better suited to growth, employment and smes. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. the single market is one of the cornerstones of the european construction and its potential should be fully exploited in order to boost competitiveness but also to create jobs and growth within the european union. that is why i supported this report, which highlights recommendations in the context of the european semester for better governance and greater transparency in the single market.
in writing. ‒ this report denounces protectionism as a threat to europe, whereas a sensible return to it would be more of a beginning to solving our problems. the report also calls for the creation of a body to monitor the application of regulations, directives and recommendations by the member states, with sanctions as a key element, as if that were all europe was. far from questioning the shortcomings of the single market, the report takes up the usual argument that european economic integration is not sufficiently advanced, particularly in terms of labour, capital or data liberalisation. the report also mentions the integration of illegal immigrants and minorities and their access to the single market. i voted against this report because of the weight of ideology in it.
in writing. ‒ the total lack of questioning and of a pragmatic analysis of the overall balance sheet of the single market makes the text meaningless. it must be rejected in its entirety and our position will hardly change until the european union gets rid of the dogmas parasitizing the minds of its representatives. we are naturally opposed to the establishment of a single market governance body. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague catherine stihler on the governance of the single market in the context of the 2016 european semester. this report deals with issues such as micro-economic coordination and non-tariff barriers in the single market. it also recommended that the single market be addressed as a specific area in the context of the european semester. the european semester consists of the coordination of economic policies of the member states in order to converge more effectively towards the objectives of growth. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the european semester, this report examines the needs and recommendations related to the single market. the report pays particular attention to the improvement that could be made in non-tariff barriers and the obstacles they represent to the integration of the single market, or to the deepening of the digital single market, for which i have been particularly committed. the single market is an important source of prosperity, employment and growth for our countries. it is therefore appropriate to improve it as proposed in this report, which i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the 2016 european semester. this report is a compilation of the best papers on the european union. the subject is religious: he points to the threats to the single market, the main ones being 'national egoism' and the resurgence of nationalism/populism/protectionism, etc. the only viable solution to the ills europe suffers from is of course the single market, with its digital component and through a supranational governance body. the text calls for harmonisation of national policies within the eu, with unlimited data sharing combined with a strengthening of the overall free movement of data, workers, capital etc... the report stresses the need for a body to monitor the smooth implementation of european directives and regulations as well as recommendations made to countries in the context of successive european semesters, with appropriate sanctions in case of reluctance or slowness, or even blocking the process.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report for two reasons. firstly, because he is calling for greater liberalization of the labour force, which means that he would like to turn the workers into stateless nomads who can be forced to work for free. secondly, because it denounces the "national egos" and the rise of "populism" which risk hindering the deepening of the holy and sacred single market, which it describes (it seems to be dreaming!) as a "notorious success".
in writing. - i voted against this report. as in the two previous votes, this is one of the components of the european semester, an ideological tool for more and more europe and more and more uniform european policies. as in the case of the previous reports, the total lack of questioning and pragmatic analysis of the overall balance sheet of the single market gives rise to a text that is absurd and shines with its futility.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to include the single market and the policies to complete it in the european semester, so that it can foster economic growth and stabilise the economies of the member states. it would therefore be 'the addition of a pillar dedicated to the single market in the european semester' allowing for regular monitoring and evaluation of the integration and competitiveness of the single market. he lists the advantages that the single market is supposed to offer such as 'standardisation of products' or 'increased competition' which should allow 'lower prices'. i remain opposed to both the european semester and the single market, which are designed to increase deregulation of the economy to the detriment of both workers and consumers. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the eu, true to itself, is completely lacking in pragmatism and questioning, the one not without the other. until she decides to leave her manichean preaching circles, our positions will be hard to change. i disapprove of the ideological policies of europe which do not meet the needs of the nations. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester is a set of technocratic and ideological recommendations. firstly, the first threat to the single market presented in the report is that of national protectionism and the only solution is to strengthen the single market. the report also stresses the need to continue to harmonize national policies with the strengthening of free trade and the introduction of sanctions for countries that are reluctant to do so. the report also calls for greater liberalization of the labour force, whether it be interoperable or nomadic, and calls for general recognition of qualifications. all this to complete the single market and reduce national disparities. we therefore reject this text, which is nothing more than a dogmatic declaration of faith in favour of the single market, the damage of which is no longer to be demonstrated.
in writing. ‒ the total lack of questioning and of a pragmatic analysis of the overall balance sheet of the single market makes the text futile. it must be rejected in its entirety, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. this report on the european semester is oriented in a liberal logic, giving as its final objective the only completion of the single market as the only guarantee of growth and employment in the eu. the text proposes coordination of microeconomic and macroeconomic policies, accompanied by coordination of budgetary policies, in order to achieve growth in europe. i voted against this report which calls for the implementation of macroeconomic sanctions mechanisms and the supervision of the member states through the supervisory authorities and country-by-country recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the report on the governance of the single market is a condensed version of pontificals on the european union, i would even say dogmas, since the subject has become a matter of religious belief among its promoters. it advocates an ever more uniform system, an ever greater disappearance of nations, an ever more savage liberalization. it seems that reality no longer matters to the europeans. the single market is even described as a "notorious success", which will not fail to surprise the millions of poor and unemployed who are desperate to see growth return to europe. i cannot of course approve such an irrational text and therefore i shall vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which i have supported, is one of the three texts in the package adopted on the european semester. it covers the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2016. the european semester, which aims, among other things, to contribute to convergence and stability in the union but also to foster economic growth, must include the single market and policies designed to deepen it. through what agency? we are asking for a pillar on the single market to be added to the european semester. this pillar should include a system of regular monitoring, identifying obstacles specific to each member state, and assessing the integration of the single market and its competitiveness. this system would be based, inter alia, on a robust database, comparison of performance, peer review and exchange of good practice. i would like to stress the economic and symbolic importance of the single market for the union. the full potential of the single market must be used, and this will require improved governance and ensuring that the single market is fully integrated into the 21st century economy and becomes one of its engines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that the single market is one of the eu's main achievements and is also a key means of creating jobs, boosting growth and european competitiveness. the resolution calls for the addition of a single market pillar to the european semester to ensure regular monitoring of the integration of the single market and european competitiveness, and to identify obstacles to the single market. the text highlights the untapped potential of the single market, suggesting that the remaining non-tariff barriers within the eu should be tackled. the aim is to ensure better application of the principle of mutual recognition, to modernise public administrations and to promote transparency. finally, i supported this report because it calls for better governance of the single market and makes recommendations to develop its potential.
in writing. ‒ the report on the governance of the single market is a compendium of the best facts about the european union. the subject is religious: - the state of the threats to the single market, of which national egoism is the foremost; - the need for harmonization of national policies within the eu with unlimited data sharing combined with a strengthening of the overall free movement. the report also calls for greater liberalization of the labour force, whether it be interoperable or nomadic, and for general recognition of qualifications. completing the single market would therefore make a profit of 1 000 billion euro, a pearl from the fascinating study on the 'cost of non-europe'. the total lack of questioning and of a pragmatic analysis of the overall balance sheet of the single market makes the text meaningless. it must be rejected in its entirety and our position will hardly be able to change until the european union gets rid of the dogmas parasitizing the intelligence of its representatives. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution on the negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement, which welcomes the opening of negotiations. the text advocates the idea that aid should be given to tunisia in order to ensure its stability and economic dynamism. even if it states that we must be cautious in sensitive agricultural sectors, promises that have never been kept, this agreement puts our farmers in difficulty with strong unfair competition but also the employees and industrialists who will have to deal with the relocations of industrial and service enterprises. these negotiations on a free trade agreement with tunisia represent the endangerment of european workers.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the opening of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement in october 2015. the text repeatedly stresses the need to help tunisia, which is an example for the region, and to ensure its stability and the dynamism of its economy. the resolution calls on the commission to facilitate the granting of 'move iv' visas, calls for a chapter on investment, calls for the opening up of public procurement and for caution in sensitive agricultural sectors. the text forgets that such a free trade agreement could endanger our economy, for example by creating a situation of unfair competition for european farmers, workers and industrialists and by relocating industrial and service enterprises. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution welcomes the opening of free trade negotiations between the european union and tunisia on 13 october 2015. the aim is to help tunisia, which is seen as an example for the region: stability must be ensured by encouraging the dynamism of its economy. the resolution calls on the commission to facilitate the granting of 'move iv' visas, but seems to be little concerned about the harmful consequences that this free trade agreement would have on our economies, which are already in great difficulty. that's why i objected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia. while i believe that tunisia should be a strategic partner, especially for france, because of the historical ties between our two countries, i do not consider free trade agreements to be an adequate tool for economic prosperity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resolution does indeed highlight the economic and social benefits that tunisia could derive from such an agreement, but what are the benefits for the member states? it is not certain that opening up our public procurement to tunisian companies is beneficial for our own economies. finally, i consider that using the liberalization of visas for tunisians as a carrot to supposedly advance human rights is a real economic and political blackmail against a partner who deserves more respect than that.
in writing. ‒ this text takes up the idea that we must help our tunisian neighbour, an example for the region, but forgets that we must not create economic difficulties for our peoples. methods of aid other than the inft could have been explored. this agreement risks creating unfair competition for european farmers, employees and industrialists with relocations of industrial and service enterprises (e.g. the automotive sector in the european union). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution welcomes the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia. the aim of this agreement is to help tunisia to ensure its political stability by contributing to its economic dynamism. the commission is therefore asked to facilitate the granting of visas and to open public procurement to tunisian companies in return for respect for human rights. while it is essential to ensure political stability in north africa and the near and middle east, in particular by combating the rise of islamic fundamentalism, we reject the idea that this can be achieved by means of trade liberalization. this agreement is a danger to our economies, especially to our agriculture, which is already severely weakened by the fall in the price of raw materials. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ tunisia and the european union have privileged political and economic relations within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. with this in mind, an association agreement was established in 1995. the latter called for the gradual establishment of a free trade area between the union and tunisia. in october 2015, negotiations for a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement with tunisia started. in this resolution, parliament makes its recommendations to the european commission's negotiators. parliament supported the opening of these negotiations. it stressed that the provisions of the agreement must not jeopardise the economy of either party. some sectors will require special attention, such as services, public procurement and agriculture. the agreement reached on agriculture must not jeopardize the interests of certain southern regions of the union which are competitors of tunisian exports. i voted in favour of this resolution, which sends a signal of support to a young democracy like tunisia.
in writing. the european parliament stresses with this vote the importance of this free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia going beyond its simple commercial dimension. i consider it essential that this agreement should contribute to the stabilization of tunisia, which is not only affected by terrorism but also by serious economic difficulties. this free trade agreement should help to promote growth in the european union while supporting tunisia in the revitalisation of its economy. it is therefore essential that this agreement can benefit the european and tunisian economies, and in particular smes.
in writing. ‒ this text defends the idea that we must help our tunisian "neighbour". since 13 october 2015, negotiations for a free trade agreement have been opened with tunisia. but the agreement in question risks creating unfair competition, particularly for european farmers, employees and industrialists, with relocations of firms in industry and services, for example in the automotive sector. so there is no question of harming the european economy to satisfy a country like tunisia. cooperation was possible without systematically resorting to greater trade liberalization. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this text takes up the idea that we must help our tunisian neighbour, an example for the region, but forgets that we must not create economic difficulties for our peoples. methods of aid other than the inft could have been explored. this agreement creates a high risk of unfair competition for european farmers, employees and industrialists with relocations of industrial and service enterprises. we are obviously against a free trade agreement with tunisia. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the opening of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement. the resolution notes the importance of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the union and tunisia to replace the current association agreement. one of the objectives is to support tunisian democracy and thus to send a strong political signal. this agreement will have to be balanced and cover a wide range of areas. the european parliament is aware, however, that the forces involved may be asymmetrical and calls for the active participation of tunisian civil society and for technical assistance from the union. i therefore support these negotiations on a new agreement which will be a factor of stability in order to support the democratic process in tunisia. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to send a strong political signal of support to our tunisian friends. by opening these negotiations on the signing of a free trade agreement with tunisia, the european union wishes to contribute to the definitive stabilisation and vitality of the tunisian economy. the participation of civil society is particularly emphasised in this negotiation process. i welcome the fact that this resolution was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the de sarnez report makes a good point about the need to support tunisia. it was in this country that the arab spring began; it was in tunisia that his call for freedom and democracy became a reality. however, tunisia is subject to strong social and economic tensions, the emancipation of its society is taking place in an extremely difficult political context, an unstable environment, and it is therefore very important to help it. a hastily negotiated trade agreement could add to political instability with harmful economic instability. moreover, without listening to the tunisian civil society which has demonstrated its maturity more than once, and without acceding to its demands to be involved or to have a real impact study conducted before starting negotiations. we must first of all grant these requests; i therefore opposed this report which calls for the continuation of the negotiations without taking the necessary precautions. we must explore new avenues of cooperation with the tunisians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia. this proposal welcomes the opening of free trade negotiations between the european union and tunisia. one of the points made in this text is that tunisia, which is an example for the region, must be helped and that its stability and the dynamism of its economy must be ensured. the text forgets that it is not necessary to create economic difficulties for the peoples of europe. methods of aid other than the inft could have been explored. this agreement creates a high risk of unfair competition for french and european farmers, employees and industrialists, with relocations of industrial and service enterprises.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i am hostile to the free trade agreement with tunisia that he wants to promote.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution opens negotiations on yet another free trade agreement, this time between the european union and tunisia. this very (too?) liberal text praises the tunisian model and tries to convince that it must be helped by introducing a number of euro-tunisian facilities: granting visas, opening public procurement... this agreement will certainly turn against european producers, creating new unfair competition for farmers, workers and industrialists. in view of similar agreements concluded in recent months (particularly with ukraine), there is reason to fear social dumping and a move towards the relocation of firms and services which would be highly detrimental to european players. i therefore voted against this text.
i voted against this report! to help tunisia, whose economy is being badly affected by the terrorist attacks, the commission is proposing an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the eu, free of customs duties, compared with the current quota of 56 700 tonnes. there are other ways of helping tunisia without putting european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been falling for the last 10 years, which is affecting european producers, and this agreement represents a real loss of income for our producers. but as always, the commission is generous to others, not to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european union agrees on the need to support the young tunisian democracy, which is also facing a particularly unstable regional context. but the eu only sees its external relations in terms of economic annexation, so brussels wants to initiate its first south mediterranean free trade agreement with this country. the result will be the total abolition of customs duties, regulations and state aid, which will severely damage an economy that is fragile in the face of this imperialist giant. as in the case of tafta, the negotiating mandate given by the council to the european commission is not public. the report stresses this but does not in any way require consultation of national parliaments for the final agreement. i am opposed to all these free trade agreements, and i am even more opposed to this one. i join my comrades in the tunisian popular front in voting against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this text does not take into account the economic interests of the member states, and subordinates them. it would have been appropriate to exclude the import of olive oil from the negotiations, for example. this agreement risks unfair competition with our farmers and relocations. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution welcomes the free trade negotiations between tunisia and the european union which were opened on 13 october 2015. it is asked to help tunisia by ensuring stability and boosting its economy. we therefore vote against this proposal which is a threat to our farmers, our employees and our industrialists who will be exposed to a great risk of unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ this text takes up the idea that we must help our tunisian neighbour but forgets that we must not create economic difficulties for our peoples. this agreement creates a high risk of unfair competition for european farmers, employees and industrialists. other methods of aid than free trade agreements can be explored, which is why i voted against.
in writing. while mentioning the need for eu support for tunisia following its democratic transition, this motion for a resolution calls for the continuation of negotiations for an eu-tunisia free trade agreement, despite the most volatile environment, and foregoes the need for consultation of civil society and a possible impact assessment of such an agreement. i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this text defends the idea that we must help our tunisian neighbour, an example for the region, but forgets that we must not create economic difficulties for the european peoples. other methods of aid than the deep free trade agreements could have been explored, especially since free trade has far from enriched everyone in the european union (in reality, it is a system that tends to enrich only those who were already rich). this agreement creates a high risk of unfair competition for farmers in the member states, employees and industrialists with relocations of enterprises and services. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which paves the way for an agreement which should be exemplary in support of tunisia's democratic transition and contribute to the stability of that country. this agreement must therefore be made in the form of a partnership, involving closely tunisian civil society. parliament also called for the most fragile sectors of the tunisian economy (agriculture, public procurement, etc.) to be protected by means of an asymmetrical agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. parliament called for the tunisian economy to diversify and for the agreement to be balanced in order to support fair trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia which were launched on 13 october. the european union is committed to strengthening its ties with tunisia and providing additional support through these negotiations. the current context is difficult given the terrorist attacks the country has suffered, the collapse of the tourism sector - which was an economic engine - and the instability of security in the region. at the same time, tunisia is continuing to complete its democratic process and i would like to remind you that the tunisian dialogue has just been awarded the nobel peace prize. the aim of these negotiations is multiple; the commission also noted the desire to improve market access and investment conditions and to stimulate growth and employment, particularly for young people. given the current economic structure of the country and the sensitivity of certain sectors, the agreement will have to be gradual and asymmetrical. i will be attentive to the development of trade negotiations, in particular through the eu-tunisia joint parliamentary committee of which i am a member, which allows for regular dialogue with tunisian parliamentarians.
in writing. ‒ this agreement poses a significant risk of unfair competition for european farmers, employees and industrialists with relocations of companies (e.g. the european automotive industry). i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contains parliament's recommendations to the commission on the recently opened negotiations with tunisia for a 'deep and comprehensive free trade agreement'. while there are some good elements in this text (asymmetry in the agreement, publication of the negotiating mandate, better involvement of civil society, sectoral impact studies), it remains within an economic and neoliberal logic. tunisia occupies a special place in the middle east. the so-called 'arab spring' has been hit hard by terrorists, and everything must be done to ensure that its democratic transition is successful. but while the social question has not been answered, the eu and its member states are only offering it poisoned gifts. after toxic loans that have contributed to the increase of its debt, tunisia should therefore liberalize its economy, sacrifice its traditional agriculture and its environment, all to the benefit of large european companies. i voted against and i am still calling for a real partnership which puts the interests of the people on both sides of the mediterranean above the profits of companies and investors. it is urgent to take account of the real issues in order to give tunisian democracy a chance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. the purpose of this text is to congratulate the european ombudsman emily o'reilly on her activities in 2014. the european ombudsman has promoted greater transparency, particularly in the areas of lobbying and clinical trials, but this is still insufficient. in addition, the ombudsman asked frontex to set up a complaint-filing system for migrants when they are alleged victims of violations of their fundamental rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. since this amendment was not adopted, i cannot support it.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution in question gives a favourable opinion on the activities of the european ombudsman (ms emily o'reilly) for 2014. the latter conducted an inquiry into the transatlantic trade and investment partnership which resulted in the council publishing the guidelines the union uses to negotiate the tipc and the european commission announcing that it would increase the transparency of lobbying activities and expand access to documents. however, this is still very insufficient. the ombudsman has also set up a transparency register, to which more than 7 000 lobbying organisations have voluntarily subscribed. in addition, the ombudsman has promoted greater transparency in clinical trials. finally, the ombudsman asked frontex to set up a complaint procedure for migrants when they are allegedly victims of violations of their fundamental rights. in committee my colleague, sylvie goddyn, asked for the removal of the passage in the report which refers to this procedure and welcomes it. the amendment was not adopted, so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution welcomes the activities of the european ombudsman for 2014, ms emily o'reilly. but i do not forget that it was the 'european ombudsman' who asked frontex to set up a complaint procedure for migrants when they are alleged to be 'victims of violations of their fundamental rights'. in committee my colleague sylvie goddyn tabled an amendment to delete the provision in the report which congratulates the european ombudsman on having obtained this new remedy. since this amendment was not adopted, i opposed this text, which gives parliament its approval to the 'european ombudsman'.
in writing. ‒ i had to vote against this report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014, ms emily o'reilly. i do acknowledge some of mrs o'reilly's accomplishments. in particular, it has worked to improve transparency in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. however, i have been forced to reject this report because, while it is able to highlight the progress achieved by the ombudsman, it is very blind to its failures and mistakes. i cannot therefore support the fact that mrs o'reilly has asked frontex to set up a complaint procedure for migrants. we are stepping on our heads by giving a blank check to illegal immigrants who would have a weapon against our own authorities. this means that even when the union claims to be protecting our borders and our citizens, it apologizes directly and leaves it to anyone to sue its own representatives! such an aberration could not receive my approval. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman has asked frontex to set up a complaint procedure for migrants when they are allegedly victims of human rights violations. in committee my colleague sylvie goddyn tabled an amendment to delete the provision in the report which congratulates the european ombudsman on having obtained this new remedy. since that amendment was not adopted, i opposed the report.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution welcomes the activities of the european ombudsman for 2014. it summarises the main issues raised by the ombudsman. first, the inquiry it carried out on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) led to the publication of the guidelines used in the negotiation of the agreement. the ombudsman also set up a register of no less than 7000 lobbies. however, it is important to recall that the european ombudsman has asked frontex to facilitate the filing of complaints by illegal migrants if they consider themselves victims of violations of their fundamental rights, which will limit the expulsions of individuals who are present illegally on our territory. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament reports annually on the activities of the european ombudsman. since october 2013, the post has been held by irish emily o'reilly. the european ombudsman acts as a liaison between citizens and the european institutions. its mission is to strengthen the rights of european citizens by investigating cases of maladministration in the european institutions and bodies. it is therefore a key element of democratic control within the european union. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the ombudsman's inquiries which aim to improve transparency within the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report welcomes the european ombudsman's efforts in 2014 to enhance transparency within the eu institutions, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations and in lobby groups. it also reviews several inquiries by the ombudsman, for example related to the protection of fundamental rights in eu cohesion policy. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this report, which takes stock of the european ombudsman's inquiries in 2014, and thus makes it possible to identify his main areas of activity. the european ombudsman, who investigates cases of maladministration in the european institutions, plays an important role in promoting greater transparency and better governance and ensuring respect for the rights of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman had expressed the wish that migrants should be able to lodge a complaint when they feel that their fundamental rights are not being respected. in committee my colleague sylvie goddyn had tabled an amendment against the provision in the report which congratulated the ombudsman on obtaining this new remedy. unfortunately, this amendment was not adopted, so i shall vote against this report, in line with our position on this mechanism.
in writing. with 23 072 citizens' requests for 2014 and the handling of 2 163 complaints, the european ombudsman, ms o'reilly, has done a great job of fully respecting the rights of european citizens, and that is why i voted in favour of this report. i would particularly like to mention the investigations carried out on transparency within the union institutions, on the transparency of lobbying activities and clinical trials, on fundamental rights, on ethical issues, on citizen participation in the union decision-making process, on eu-funded projects and programmes and on the union's competition policy. i therefore welcomed the request to frontex that the agency should set up a procedure for individual complaints in the event of alleged violations of fundamental rights. i also share the view that it is essential to ensure that european institutions are free from conflicts of interest if we are to focus on preserving the trust of european citizens. it is in this sense that codes of conduct have emerged in recent years and a public register of interest representatives has been created. however, to be credible, these practices must be shared by all the institutions, including the council.
in writing. ‒ progress on transparency remains limited and the report welcomes the fact that the european ombudsman has asked frontex to introduce a complaints procedure for refugees. in committee my colleague sylvie godyn tabled an amendment to delete the provision in the report which congratulates the european ombudsman on having obtained this new remedy. since this amendment was not adopted, i and my colleagues oppose the vote on this report. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague soledad cabezón ruiz on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014, who receives complaints about maladministration in the european institutions. most of the open investigations, 325 in 2014, concern access to documents, selection procedures or contract execution. this report encourages the ombudsman to open more inquiries on her own initiative. the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the european ombudsman's activities in 2014. the ombudsman, who is responsible for inquiries and complaints against the european institutions, does a remarkable job of investigation and transparency in acting as an intermediary between european citizens and the institutions. ms o'reilly, the current ombudsman, opened more than 325 inquiries in 2014 based on complaints and the report encourages the ombudsman to open more inquiries on her own initiative. i therefore naturally voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. in particular, the ombudsman conducted an inquiry into the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), which resulted in the council publishing the guidelines the union uses to negotiate the ttip and the european commission announcing that it would increase the transparency of lobbying activities and expand access to ttip-related documents. however, there is still a lack of transparency. the ombudsman has set up a transparency register, to which more than 7 000 lobbying organisations have voluntarily subscribed. so there are some rather positive elements. the ombudsman, however, asked frontex to set up a complaint procedure for migrants when they are allegedly victims of violations of their fundamental rights. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances and preparations. as this amendment was not adopted, i am opposed to the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it welcomes the progress made by the european ombudsman in the area of transparency, whereas this progress remains very limited. it is also wrong to congratulate the ombudsman for having asked frontex to introduce a complaint procedure for migrants!
in writing. - i voted against this activity report. we acknowledge that the european ombudsman made some good decisions in 2014, such as the creation of a lobby transparency register or the promotion of transparency in clinical trials. we do, however, condemn his request to frontex to set up a complaint procedure for migrants when they are allegedly victims of violations of their fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ every year, the committee on petitions of the european parliament presents a report on the activities of the european ombudsman in the previous year. the ombudsman investigates complaints against eu institutions for maladministration or for breach of citizens' rights. in 2014, it carried out extensive investigations, focusing in particular on the lack of transparency in the transatlantic tafta agreement, the shenanigans of former european commissioners and the opaque actions of lobbies. as such, although its mandate is limited, its work is to be commended. the report of the parliament should have called on the commission to continue this work when, for example, it merely welcomed the commission's "greatest openness" on tafta, even though its negotiating mandate on behalf of the european peoples has not yet been officially made public. the report also calls for the frontex agency in charge of external borders to "ensure that the welfare of returnees is respected during return flights", while the human rights violations in its treatment of migrants are numerous. under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman has promoted more transparency in clinical trials, which has led to limited improvements. the ombudsman also called for a complaints procedure for migrants to be set up. mrs goddyn was refused the amendment which congratulated the ombudsman on this new remedy. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is a congratulatory message from the european parliament to the european ombudsman for his activities in 2014. these included the establishment of a transparency register in which more than 7 000 lobbying organisations were registered; promote greater transparency in clinical trials resulting in the publication of information on the added value of products and their actual research costs; the commission has also been active in promoting transparency in lobbying activities under ttip, but this is still very insufficient. however, the ombudsman also called for the introduction of a complaints procedure for migrants so that they can attack frontex in the event of a breach of their fundamental rights, which is why we are very much against this solution proposed in the text tabled.
in writing. ‒ progress on transparency remains limited, but the report welcomes the fact that the european ombudsman has asked frontex to introduce a complaints procedure for migrants. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman conducted an inquiry into the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) which resulted in the council publishing the guidelines the union uses to negotiate the ttip and the european commission announcing that it would increase the transparency of lobbying activities and expand access to ttip-related documents. however, there is still a lack of transparency. in addition, the european ombudsman asked frontex to set up a complaint procedure for migrants when they are allegedly victims of human rights violations. i think this is unacceptable, because it can only slow down the resolution of the migrant crisis. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, which i fully support, the european parliament congratulates emily o'reilly on her decisive action as european ombudsman. its role is essential to ensure that the rights of european citizens are properly respected and to strengthen their trust in the union. this trust is based on more transparent and open european institutions, which are accessible to all, but also free of any conflict of interest. this is a prerequisite for promoting closer relations between europeans and their governments. the ombudsman's role is therefore very important in ensuring that the european administration respects its obligations, in particular with regard to the rule of law, democratic principles and the union's values. i particularly welcome his commitment to the fundamental rights of refugees and migrants. frontex should endeavour to fully respect the ombudsman's recommendations in this regard in its joint return operations, in particular with regard to the most vulnerable. it is also time for the agency to respond to the many calls by emily o'reilly, relayed by the european parliament, for the establishment of its own mechanism for individual complaints in cases of violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, in which we endorse the european ombudsman's activity report for 2014 and congratulate her on her re-election and on the excellent work she is doing, with certain results. at a time when the proportion of citizens who do not trust the union is higher than the proportion who do, the ombudsman's action to ensure full respect for citizens' rights and the right to good administration can help to reverse this problematic trend. we therefore wholeheartedly support the ombudsman's increasing use of her power to open inquiries on her own initiative and call for an increase in her annual budget. 342 investigations were opened and 400 were closed. these open investigations include, in particular, fundamental rights issues, ethical issues or citizens' participation in the decision-making process, but also transparency within the union institutions as well as at the level of lobbying activities and clinical trials. we must ensure that the ombudsman has strong support in her work. with this resolution, our assembly is demonstrating this intention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which takes stock of the european ombudsman's activities in 2014. re-elected by the european parliament in december 2014, the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, opened 325 inquiries based on complaints during 2014. it should be recalled that the ombudsman's task is to investigate complaints relating to instances of maladministration in the activities of the european institutions. it also has the power to initiate investigations. i therefore supported this resolution which welcomes the adoption by the european ombudsman of a five-year strategy which allows for a more focused approach to tackling recurring problems and promoting good administration. it should also be noted that 80% of the ombudsman's recommendations are followed and implemented by the eu institutions. the european ombudsman has a key role to play in ensuring that fundamental rights and the rule of law are respected in the work of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution welcomes the activities of the european ombudsman for 2014, ms emily o'reilly, and presents her initiative to ask frontex to set up a complaints procedure for migrants when they are allegedly victims of violations of their fundamental rights. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ as every year, this report covers the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014. while the function of the european ombudsman is to strengthen the democratic process within the european union, his legislative powers have been relatively limited so far. since her election in 2013, emilie o'reilly has strengthened the ombudsman's remit and seems to want to remind the member states and the commission of their obligations to respect the rule of law and democracy. transparency of ttip negotiations, transparency of lobbying, conflicts of interest and respect for fundamental rights: the ombudsman has taken the initiative in opening a number of inquiries into possible breaches of the rule of law and the results of her inquiries are interesting. however, the report does not follow its recommendations to the letter and welcomes in particular greater openness in the ttip negotiations or frontex's activities in the field of expulsions and returns. the gue/ngl tabled several amendments to take up its recommendations, all of which were rejected. the least we can say is that emilie o'reilly has a lot of work to do to be heard; i support it and therefore voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the econ committee's opinion on the ecb's annual report. this text, which is supposed to comment on the policy pursued by the ecb two years ago, focuses in reality on current economic news and european policies. the lack of critical vision in the text on the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and on the adverse effects of the addictive drug qe is largely questionable. the destabilising effects on asset prices of massive money creation, as well as the effects of low oil on inflation levels in relation to the ecb's objectives, are therefore insufficiently addressed. we also find no challenge to the great european monetary pillars which, let us remember, have destroyed the economies of our countries. on the contrary, they are glorified in the text.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the econ committee's opinion on the ecb's annual report for the year 2014. while there are criticisms and concerns, for example about the difficulties of financing smes or the impact of securities purchases on the ecb's balance sheet, the fact remains that this text is flawed by its lack of critical vision on the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and, even if it is mentioned, on the adverse effects of the addictive drug of "quantitative easing" and exit scenarios. the report also does not call into question, or even glorify, banking union, capital markets union, fiscal governance, central bank independence, etc. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the econ committee presents its opinion on the ecb's annual report, with a year's lag. the exercise is therefore somewhat tricky since it is a question of commenting on the policy pursued by the ecb two years ago, while the news of 2015 and early 2016 was very rich: resumption of banking supervision of systemic banks, launch and then gradual extension of "quantitative easing" (quantitative easing), management of the greek crisis with the reaffirmation by mario draghi of the commitment to support the euro at all costs, ... it is a report on the self-satisfaction of eurobates and i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report, which once again proves that many meps prefer to turn a blind eye rather than face the reality and consequences of the ecb's policies. the rapporteur dares to criticise the policeman that is the ecb, particularly on the difficulties of financing smes, but the structural causes of the economic and monetary crisis we are experiencing are still not addressed: no questioning of the banking union, the capital markets union, the independence of the central bank... worse, the rapporteur does not dare to take a direct view of the ecb's desperate attempts to save the euro ("at any price", according to mario draghi) which lead to destabilising the market a little more with massive monetary creation. a report of such naivety or irresponsibility could not therefore receive my support.
in writing. ‒ the econ committee presents its opinion on the 2014 annual report of the european central bank (ecb). the rapporteur is deeply concerned about the ecb's inability to boost private investment and remains highly sceptical about the effectiveness of quantitative easing in reviving activity in the euro area. although we share many of the criticisms of the ecb, we find the rapporteur lacking in lucidity when it comes to examining the causes of the current economic slump. the single currency prevents us from using monetary leverage freely to finance investments that will contribute to growth in the future. monetary sovereignty is essential when fiscal room for manoeuvre is extremely limited. finally, there is no reference to the banking union, the capital markets union or the independence of the ecb, which are at the origin of the economic difficulties currently faced by the euro area member states. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european parliament prepares an own-initiative report on the activities of the european central bank (ecb). in this difficult economic period and with low inflation, the ecb has implemented exceptional measures such as interest rate cuts and quantitative easing to refinance the european economy. i voted in favour of this report, which gives an overview of the european monetary policy pursued by the ecb in 2014.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's position on the 2014 annual report of the european central bank (ecb). the report highlights the limited effects and risks of the bank's asset purchase programme ('quantitative easing'). the programme has not yet resulted in the target inflation rate of close to 2%, which is still below, or in a reduction in the gap between the rates of loans to smes and those granted to the largest enterprises. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. the european parliament is making its recommendations in this vote in the light of the 2014 annual report of the european central bank. the european central bank plays a key role in improving the conditions for public and private investment in the euro area to stimulate growth and job creation. i wanted to stress once again the need to provide access to finance for smes.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is about the ecb, rightly mentions the problems of financing small and medium-sized enterprises and the consequences of securities purchases on the balance sheet of the european central bank. it is regrettable that the report does not call into question the acquisition of assets in the context of quantitative easing. while the issue of bubbles and excesses arising from massive money creation is not sufficiently addressed, neither are the consequences of "low oil" on the ecb's inflation targets. in view of the absence of any challenge to the dogmas of budgetary governance, the functioning of the european central bank, banking union or capital markets union, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the criticisms of the balance sheet of the european central bank are insufficient. the macroeconomic picture is too optimistic and there are many formulae welcoming the policies pursued by the european union. the destabilising effects on asset prices (bubbles, market instability) of massive money creation, as well as the effects of low oil on inflation levels in relation to the ecb's objectives, are insufficiently addressed. the main pillars of the eu's economic policies are not called into question, but rather praised: banking union, capital markets union, fiscal governance of the 6 and 2 packages, central bank independence, prohibition of direct monetisation of public debts... i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr notis marias, on the 2014 annual report of the european central bank. this report examines the unconventional measures taken by the ecb against the low level of inflation in the european union. these exceptional measures were implemented by the european central bank because most member states were facing significant sovereign debt difficulties. i support this balanced report, which is a european parliament review of the activities of the european central bank. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this report examines the unconventional measures used by the european central bank (ecb) during the sovereign debt crisis. these measures were mainly aimed at combating the very low level of inflation in the euro area. the stability of the zone is an essential element that the central bank has managed to preserve in 2014. i voted in favour of this clear and balanced report on the activities of the ecb.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european central bank's 2014 annual report because of its lack of critical vision on the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and, even if it is mentioned, on the adverse effects of the addictive drug "quantitative easing". the destabilising effects on asset prices (bubbles, market instability) of massive money creation, as well as the effects of low oil on inflation levels in relation to the ecb's objectives, are therefore insufficiently addressed. of course, the main pillars of the eu's economic policies are not called into question, but rather praised: banking union, capital markets union, fiscal governance of the 6 and 2 packs, central bank independence, prohibition of direct monetisation of public debts, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives an excessively optimistic assessment of the ecb's activities.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report, which is short on vision, merely comments on current economic events and european policies, as well as on the ecb's activities. as in the previous year, there are some criticisms and concerns, for example about the difficulties of financing smes or the impact of securities purchases on the ecb's balance sheet. however, it can be blamed for its lack of critical vision on the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and, even if it is mentioned, on the adverse effects of the addictive drug "quantitative easing". and, of course, it should be noted that the main pillars of the eu's economic policies are not called into question, but rather praised: banking union, capital markets union, fiscal governance of the 6 and 2 packages, independence of the central bank, prohibition of direct monetisation of public debts... pillars that we are firmly opposed to.
in writing. ‒ this report welcomes the disastrous action of the european central bank (ecb). he welcomed the fact that "the ecb made it clear in august 2012 that it would 'do everything possible' to protect the euro", i.e. to maintain its monetary policy solely for the benefit of the germans. it reaffirmed 'its commitment to respect the independence of the ecb in the conduct of monetary policy'. he welcomed the 'creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) ' which, however, did not do much good. the report also mentions the ban on "direct purchases by national central banks or the ecb of debt securities issued by the european union" which led to the sovereign debt crisis. i am voting against this report, which does not propose any reorientation of the ecb's role.
in writing. ‒ this report expresses concerns and contains some interesting observations. however, overall criticism of the ecb is insufficient and the macroeconomic balance sheet is considered too optimistic. the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the econ committee presents its opinion on the ecb's annual report, with a year's lag, in a report that actually comments on current economic news and european policies, as well as on the ecb's action. there is a recurrent feeling of criticism and concern, for example, about the difficulties of financing smes or the impact of securities purchases on the ecb's balance sheet. however, it can be blamed for its lack of critical vision on the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and, even if it is mentioned, on the adverse effects of the addictive drug qe and exit scenarios. of course, the main pillars of the union's economic policies are not called into question, but rather praised: banking union, capital markets union, fiscal governance of the six-pack and two-pack, independence of the central bank, prohibition of direct monetisation of public debts, etc. we therefore vote against this report, which goes against our positions on these matters.
in writing. ‒ it is easy to criticise this report for its lack of critical vision of the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation, which affects all european countries. the destabilising effects on asset prices (bubbles, market instability) of massive money creation, as well as the effects of low oil on inflation levels in relation to the ecb's objectives, are insufficiently addressed. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. the report in question uncritically refers to the monetary policy of the ecb for the year 2014. the text follows the logic of the austerity economic policy pursued in recent years in the union and calls on the member states to implement structural reforms in order to comply with macroeconomic criteria, in particular those countries which have been under a budgetary consolidation programme, and opposes the idea of a public debt restructuring. these factors led me to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report actually comments on current economic events and european policies as much as on the ecb's activities. as in the previous year, there are some concerns, for example about the financing difficulties of smes or the impact of securities purchases on the ecb's balance sheet. however, there is no critical view of the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation or the adverse effects of qe. the destabilising effects on asset prices of massive money creation, as well as the effects of low oil on inflation levels in relation to the ecb's objectives, are therefore insufficiently addressed. of course, the main pillars of the union's economic policies are not called into question, but rather praised: banking union, capital markets union, fiscal governance of the six-pack and two-pack, independence of the central bank, prohibition of direct monetisation of public debts, etc. i am therefore logically opposed to this unrealistic and unconventional report.
in writing. ‒ in addition to optimistic forecasts for the economic recovery, unemployment and fiscal prospects of the euro area countries, the report highlights three recommendations. first, on the need to improve the environment for the creation of smes and hence jobs, he advocated increased public and private investment. the establishment of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the efforts to establish a capital markets union (cmu) are welcomed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, rail and inland waterway. finally, efforts to make the ecb more transparent are noted, although some progress remains to be made, as is the case with the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the european central bank's activities in 2014 but also makes recommendations from parliament. it is important to stress first of all that, according to the commission's latest forecasts, the economic recovery in the euro area is expected to intensify, while remaining fragile. the ecb must therefore improve the conditions for this recovery in monetary terms; in particular, by ensuring a low inflation rate of around 1%, as envisaged for 2016. as called for in this resolution, it is necessary to improve the conditions for public and private investment to stimulate growth and create jobs. i therefore supported this report, which recalls that monetary policy must allow for a higher rate of financing for european enterprises, especially smes, one of the engines of the european economy. monetary policy must support the recovery of economic growth by encouraging investment.
in writing. ‒ it is a delicate exercise to comment on the policy pursued by the ecb two years ago, when the news of 2015 and early 2016 is very rich: resumption of banking supervision of systemic banks, launch and then gradual extension of qe. the result is a report that actually comments more on current economic events and european policies, as well as on the ecb's activities. as in the previous year, there are some criticisms and concerns, for example about the difficulties of financing smes or the impact of securities purchases on the ecb's balance sheet. however, it can be criticised for its lack of critical vision on the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and, even if it is mentioned, on the adverse effects of qe and exit scenarios. moreover, the main pillars of the union's economic policies are not at all called into question, but are on the contrary praised: banking union, capital markets union, fiscal governance of the six-pack and two-pack, central bank independence, prohibition of direct monetisation of public debts, etc. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this owninitiative parliamentary report, as every year, assesses the functioning of the ecb. it was the subject of more controversy than previous reports to the european parliament in 2014. the report first criticised the negative role played by the ecb in greece and other countries subject to austerity policies. unfortunately, in the final version of the report, these points were removed and the criticism is limited to asking for a thorough assessment of the way the 'troika' operates and of the ecb's participation in the 'troika'. the report also supports the ecb's monetary policy. as i have said in previous years, it is essential to put the ecb under political control. the ecb's activities must be primarily focused on public investment, employment and social cohesion. it is essential to put an end to austerity policies. the ecb must no longer intervene independently in european policies and must act more transparently. we need a european central bank which serves the people, the general interest and not finance. so, not surprisingly, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to open negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. the text covers a wide range of areas: investment, goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, state-owned enterprises, energy and plant health barriers, but also agriculture. in this respect, the report recognises the need for safeguard measures such as quotas and transitional periods. however, australian and new zealand farms are very competitive, especially in livestock, milk and cereals. opening free trade negotiations would therefore be dramatic for french livestock and dairy farming. moreover, the preventive measures outlined will certainly only be in place for a time to make way for full free trade. i am deeply opposed to the 'governance of the world economy' to which the text refers, and i cannot support it.
in writing. ‒ due to the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries. this would be the end of the dairy sector and of french livestock. we cannot trust the commission and parliament when they claim to 'preserve' these sensitive sectors. their vision expressed here is to put in place transitional periods, quotas at the beginning, and then to establish aggressive free trade. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ while australia and new zealand recently signed the trans-pacific treaty, the eu now wants its own free trade agreement, still towed by the us. australia produces a wide range of grains and livestock, with 80% of its production exported. a highly competitive country, australia is a strong advocate of liberalization of world agricultural markets. the same is true of new zealand, the world's largest net exporter of dairy products. so do we want to finish off our farmers ??!
in writing. ‒ i rejected this resolution as a whole, whose barely disguised objective is the establishment of a global governance based solely on the laws of the globalised market. the resolution calls for the inclusion of all sectors of the economy in this free trade agreement with australia and new zealand: public procurement, public enterprises, energy... so many strategic sectors for france! but the real danger is the extreme competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, which are a real danger to our farmers who are already in a very precarious situation: let us remember that new zealand is the world's leading net exporter of dairy products! australia is a major producer of grain and livestock. our farmers already provide us with everything we need, and this despite an increasingly precarious situation for them. should we, under the pretext of participating in the world market, sacrifice them at the cost of becoming dependent on imports? finally, what can be said of the hypocrisy of the commission and also of parliament, which in this resolution merely says that we must be 'cautious' with our sensitive sectors? a perfect example of what the true defenders of the europe of nations and the freedoms we are fighting against every day.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the opening of free trade negotiations with australia and new zealand, particularly in view of the high competitiveness of their agricultural sectors (livestock, milk, cereals). this free trade agreement could end up killing french livestock and dairy farming. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand, which should cover a wide range of issues, such as trade in goods and services, the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products and e-commerce. at a time when our farmers are suffering from a sharp fall in the price of raw materials and the disastrous consequences of the common agricultural policy, it would be absolutely absurd to conclude this agreement with two countries which are particularly competitive in this sector of activity. despite the low level of government subsidies, australia exports 80% of its cereals and livestock production, while new zealand is the largest net exporter of dairy products. despite the commission's intention to set quotas and implement safeguard measures, we believe that this agreement could end up killing the livestock and dairy sector in france. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand, although members of the world trade organisation, have not yet started negotiations for a free trade agreement with the eu. in its new strategy on foreign trade and investment, the european commission proposes to open the door to new negotiations in the asia-pacific. in this resolution, parliament supports the commission's approach and stresses the importance of strengthening the eu's relations with the countries of the region. parliament stressed the need to negotiate two separate free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. in this way, the economic specificities of these two countries will be preserved. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the european parliament's position in favour of opening negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. the commission has already provided a detailed analysis of the measures taken by the union in the context of the current review of the union state aid rules. the negotiating mandate will be given to the commission by the council and will be preceded by an impact assessment. in the european parliament we would like to point out that agriculture is a very sensitive sector in this highly exporting third country. it is essential that the interests of european producers of meat, dairy products, sugar, cereals and textiles are taken into account in this agreement. i have supported this report because i believe that it is necessary to preserve our agriculture in the context of such trade agreements.
in writing. i supported this parliament resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand which calls for strengthening economic and trade relations between the european union and the asia-pacific region. the negotiations are expected to lead to the adoption of ambitious free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. i am particularly in favour of these agreements taking full account of the needs and interests of smes in the context of market access measures.
in writing. ‒ the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand could offer new prospects and opportunities for our businesses. however, it is essential to negotiate ambitious and balanced agreements in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit. i therefore hope that the association of european agricultural sectors will be achieved before negotiations are opened, that certain products will be excluded or very small quotas allocated, and that our protected geographical indications will be recognised and protected. these points being included in the resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand, i have decided to vote in favour. these are, in my view, non-negotiable points.
in writing. ‒ given the competitiveness of australia and new zealand in the fields of cereal farming, livestock farming or milk production, it is against the interests of the member states to put them in competition with the abovementioned countries. in the context of the crisis these sectors are going through in europe, it would be irresponsible to move towards greater free trade with these countries, which have already signed the trans-pacific treaty. i do not share the view of parliament and the european commission, which claim to 'preserve' these sectors, while exposing them to the dangers mentioned above, and i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries. this could kill off the french livestock and dairy sector. we cannot trust parliament and the commission in their desire to 'preserve' sensitive sectors. their vision expressed here is to put in place transitional periods, quotas at first, but aggressive free trade afterwards. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues bernd lange and daniel caspary on a resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. this resolution emphasises the influence that the consolidated relations between the union and the asia-pacific region could have on european growth. the union's trade policy must reflect this direction, as australia and new zealand are two very important economic players in this region. parliament considered that these free trade agreements should be ambitious, balanced and comprehensive, following the model of a new generation of free trade agreements. i support the opening of these negotiations, the results of which can have a significant impact on the governance of the world economy through the convergence of international standards. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which underlines the importance of strengthening relations between the european union and the asia-pacific region and specifically australia and new zealand, which are major players in the region. these free trade agreements with australia and new zealand are important for the union's positioning in this region of strong economic growth, especially as the union, australia and new zealand share common values. these negotiations must, however, be clear, transparent and respect our european environmental and social standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries. this could kill off the french livestock and dairy sector. we cannot trust parliament and the commission in their desire to 'preserve' sensitive sectors. their vision expressed here is to put in place transitional periods, quotas at first, but aggressive free trade afterwards.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it favours the conclusion of a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand, which will worsen the dramatic situation of french farmers, particularly in the milk and pig and cattle sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european union, australia and new zealand are currently negotiating to strengthen their trade relations. if these negotiations should lead to an agreement, it could deal a fatal blow to the economies of the french outermost regions (ors). australia is the 10th largest producer of cane sugar in the world and the cane sector, particularly in réunion, could be severely affected by the conclusion of such a free trade agreement if specialty sugars are not excluded from the scope of the negotiations. the resolution calls for bilateral safeguard measures to be introduced to protect sensitive products, particularly those from the outermost regions. it goes further, calling on the commission to exclude special sugars from the negotiations. the european parliament expressly requests the commission to take due account of the specific interests of the ors in these trade negotiations. it is therefore only natural that i should vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. the union wants to increase its trade relations with australia and new zealand. all the following fields must be included in the agreement: investment, goods and services, e-commerce, public market, state enterprises, energy, phytosanitary barriers... given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries. this could kill off the french livestock and dairy sector!
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand recently signed the trans-pacific partnership, which establishes a free trade area with the united states, canada, japan, etc. the union is therefore also proposing a free trade agreement with the area in order not to be left behind. the resolution thus defends the implementation of the free trade agreement between australia and new zealand on the one hand and the union on the other. the resolution 'stresses the importance of strengthening relations between the union and the asia-pacific region for european economic growth', even as australia and new zealand rank 21st and 51st on the list of the union's trading partners (2014). i am opposed to these free trade agreements which sow misery wherever they are applied and i call instead for the establishment of a solidarity-based protectionism. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report is interesting in that it takes account of the agricultural sector through quotas and transitional periods. it also asks the commission to be transparent, which is good. however, the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors are particularly strong, especially in cereals, livestock and milk. french livestock - which is in bad shape - is in danger with this report. i am not convinced by the guarantees that the union is offering for sensitive sectors. this is only the beginning, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in an environment where australia and new zealand have recently signed the trans-pacific treaty, the european union wants to increase trade relations with these countries in the following fields: investment, goods and services, e-commerce, public market, state-owned enterprises, energy, plant health barriers... given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries. this could kill off the french livestock and dairy sector. even if parliament and the commission express their willingness to preserve sensitive sectors by introducing transitional periods and quotas, we know very well that this will end up in the establishment of a very aggressive free trade. we are therefore strongly opposed to this increase in trade relations.
in writing. ‒ given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is very dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries. this could kill off the french livestock and dairy sector. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament underlines the importance of strengthening relations between the union and the asia-pacific region for european economic growth and stresses the need to see this importance reflected in the european union's trade policy. it recognises that australia and new zealand are key players in this strategy and that the expansion and development of trade with these partners can help to achieve this objective. it also considered that the negotiation of two separate, modern, ambitious, balanced and comprehensive free trade agreements with australia and new zealand, respecting the specificities of their economies, represented a pragmatic way of strengthening bilateral partnerships, as it would further consolidate already mature trade and investment relations and mitigate the trade-reducing effects of the recently concluded trans-pacific partnership. parliament considered that the outcome of the negotiations should be a model for a new generation of free trade agreements. it also stressed that any ambitious agreement between the three advanced economies must adequately cover a number of areas of economic and protection concern.
in writing. this resolution calls on the commission to open negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. this new generation trade agreement therefore contains the new investment court system as proposed by the commission. one of my main concerns was the competition between special sugars produced in australia and new zealand and those produced in the french overseas departments. my amendment on the protection of these sugars was adopted. although i am reserved about the logic of the union signing free trade agreements at all costs, parliament's request to exclude special sugars led me to vote in favour of this demanding negotiating mandate.
in writing. ‒ while french farmers are facing terrible difficulties, i am indignant at this draft agreement with new zealand and australia, large agricultural producers who will obviously worsen the situation of the french. the commission seems determined to kill every french farmer, because it is increasing its investigations against them and against all those who would allow them to live a decent life by buying their products at a reasonable price, and it is opening up the european union to competition from third countries. i reject these policies which are harmful both to the economy and to the environment. i therefore vote against opening these negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on trade talks with australia and new zealand. the negotiations have not yet been launched and this is why this text calls for comprehensive and sustainable long-term impact assessments to be carried out by the european commission. given the global economic context and the development of international trade relations, it is important that the european union strengthen its relations with the asia-pacific region, in particular through modern, ambitious, balanced and comprehensive agreements with australia on the one hand and new zealand on the other. however, i would like to stress that the text recalls the sensitivity of certain sectors, particularly the agricultural sector. in this respect, the interests of european producers must be duly taken into account, in particular by allowing the introduction of transitional periods, appropriate quotas or the exclusion of the most sensitive sectors. finally, the resolution also stresses the importance of achieving, through these future negotiations, the recognition and protection of our geographical indications.
in writing. ‒ given the high competitiveness of the australian and new zealand agricultural sectors, particularly in livestock, milk and cereals, it is quite dangerous to open free trade negotiations with these two countries. this could kill off the french livestock and dairy sectors, which are already very weak. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ while australia and new zealand have just signed the trans-pacific partnership establishing a free trade area with the united states, canada and japan, the european union has called for negotiations to be opened on a free trade agreement with these countries. the resolution calls for these negotiations to be opened and stresses in particular the 'importance of strengthening relations between the union and the asia-pacific region for european economic growth', even though trade with the region is far from being one of the union's main partnerships. in reality, it is still the obsession with building a large market to impose free trade agreements and competition in ever wider geographical areas. the gue/ngl group had tabled amendments to obtain a minimum number of guarantees for the protection of social, environmental and human rights standards. these amendments were rejected. against the principle of free trade agreements, the damage of which no longer needs to be demonstrated wherever they are implemented, and irrespective of the partners, i voted against the initiation of this type of negotiation which favours the interests of multinational companies to the detriment of the people and in particular of employees all over the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the introduction of compatible pet registration systems in all member states. the report, based on a number of sources, states that illegal trade in animals is the third largest in the world. the health aspect is also mentioned, since it is established that the majority of sick animals originate from illegal trade and that most of the diseases that have appeared in recent years are primarily animal diseases. the introduction of compatible registration systems in all member states is therefore a good initiative from both a health and animal health point of view. moreover, this interstate cooperation is between sovereign nations, which i support.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution refers to a wide range of references, not strictly at community level, and is based on several findings; first, the increase in pet trafficking, which is said to be the third most lucrative after drugs and weapons; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. finally, most of the diseases that have emerged in recent decades are animal diseases that have mutated to be transmitted to humans. this text then sets out tentative milestones for considering the compatibility of registration systems in all member states; it is now established that a pet animal registered in one member state and lost in another cannot be found by its owner, because of incompatibility of registration systems in all member states. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the text is based on several findings: first, the increase in the trafficking of pets, which is the third most lucrative trafficking after drugs and weapons; secondly, the fact that most of the sick animals are from the illegal trade and that the antibiotics supplied also increase their antimicrobial resistance; finally, most of the diseases that have emerged in recent decades are animal diseases that have mutated to be transmitted to humans. the text then sets out tentative milestones for considering the compatibility of registration systems in all member states. the fact is that a pet registered in one member state and lost in another cannot be found by its owner because of incompatibility of registration systems. interstate compatibility is part of that beneficial cooperation between sovereign nations which i wish to see. that is why i supported this joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this resolution, which is a real example of what could be done in europe if cooperation between sovereign nations were given priority in the sole interest of the citizens of the member states. the introduction of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals in all member states will make it possible to protect both animal welfare and public health. indeed, it should be remembered that pet trafficking is the third most lucrative trade after drugs and weapons. this illegal trade often leads to pet diseases, which also pose risks to human health. making pet registration systems compatible will therefore not only help to combat such trafficking but also to safeguard the health of our animals and our families. as a person who cares deeply about animal welfare, i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution supports the introduction of compatible registration systems for pet animals. the health aspect and the goodwill towards animals of this text are to be supported. interstate compatibility is part of this beneficial cooperation between sovereign nations. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution highlights the shortcomings of the current legislation on national pet registration systems, the incompatibility of which has contributed to the strengthening of the illegal trade. the text thus lays the foundations for compatibility of these registration systems, which would make it possible to combat effectively the development of infectious diseases originating in these animals. in addition, it has been found that a pet animal lost by its owner in another member state cannot be found because of the current provisions. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which in no way infringes the sovereignty of the member states, for which we are fighting every day.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of compatible systems for the registration of pet animals is a necessity in order to combat illegal trade in animals within the union. pet animals in the illegal trade are often mistreated and do not have the same health guarantees as other animals. in addition, illegal trade in pets such as dogs and cats is proliferating due to the disparities in the member states' legislation in this area. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the european commission to set up a compatible pet registration system in all member states.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, we call for the sharing of data at eu level on pet registration, as health risks are increasing in the face of large-scale illicit trade in animals from poor animal husbandry practices. pet trafficking is increasingly linked to organised crime and is now considered the third most profitable type of illicit trade in the union, after drugs and arms. the implementation of a system of registration for sellers and owners is necessary to improve the traceability of animals and prevent the risk of disease, so i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the text on the introduction of compatible pet registration systems in all eu member states raises parliament's concerns about the fraudulent and commercial use of the animal travel programme. the european parliament has therefore rightly called on the european commission to take measures to ensure that such a system of identification and registration of pet animals is established throughout the european union. it is important to prevent the falsification of such documents and to ensure the traceability of pet animals in the european union in order to combat illegal trade and contribute to the improvement of animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ the main aim of this text is to combat illegal trade in domestic animals, in particular dogs and cats, by establishing a system of identification and registration. that is why i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the introduction of compatible pet registration systems in all member states. i believe that it is important that the veterinary authorities control the vaccination of pet animals in cross-border trade.
in writing. - after drugs and guns, pet trafficking is said to be the third most lucrative. in addition, it appears that a large number of sick animals are being illegally traded, and antibiotics are constantly increasing antimicrobial resistance, to the detriment of humans. this text is a further, albeit modest but no less real, step towards compatibility of registration systems in all the member states, so that an animal lost in one state can be returned to its owner in another state. for reasons of health, common sense and the interests of animals, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ currently, pet trafficking is said to be the third most lucrative trade after drugs and weapons. it is also worth remembering that most of the diseases that have emerged in recent decades are diseases that have mutated from animals and have been transmitted to humans. it is also noted that the majority of the animals found sick come from the illegal trade. i therefore consider that the introduction of compatible registration systems for pet animals in all member states is desirable and beneficial since today a pet animal registered in one member state and lost in another cannot be found by its owner because of the incompatibility of the registration systems. in this context, the consideration of the importance of animal health, together with cooperation between our sovereign nations, contributes to the necessary recognition of animal rights in europe and, more generally, to the importance attached to the animal condition within the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the introduction of compatible pet registration systems in all member states. the european parliament wants to combat illegal trafficking in domestic animals and proposes, to this end, the introduction of a system of identification and registration for all pets. it also includes limiting the spread of disease and fighting organised crime. i therefore support this resolution so that the commission can take effective action in this area. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the introduction of compatible pet registration systems in all member states. this motion for a resolution supports the introduction of compatible registration systems for pet animals. the text refers to a wide range of sources, not strictly at community level, and is based on several findings. it then sets out milestones for considering the compatibility of registration systems in all member states. it is a fact that today a pet animal registered in one member state and lost in another cannot be found by its owner because of incompatibility of registration systems. this motion for a resolution, because of its health aspect and its goodwill towards animals, deserves support. interstate compatibility is part of this beneficial cooperation between sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it seeks to combat the disease-causing increase in crossborder trafficking of pets. it is also worthwhile to try to improve the compatibility of national registration systems, which will make it easier for the owner of an animal lost in another member state to find it.
in writing. - i voted yes. this motion for a resolution supports the introduction of compatible registration systems for pet animals. such recording systems would help to combat the illegal trade in animals, which is the third most lucrative trade after drugs and weapons. they would also fill a legal gap, as at present a pet registered in one member state and lost in another cannot be found by its owner, due to incompatibility of registration systems.
in writing. ‒ since 2013, a regulation on the non-commercial movement of pet animals (cats, dogs and ferrets) has been in place. nevertheless, the illegal trade in pets is growing and is accompanied by a large-scale diversion of the pet travel programme, by circumvention of controls and falsification of documents. the illegal trade in pets is often the result of poor husbandry, poor socialisation and a higher risk of disease. the resolution calls for the establishment of a compatible system of identification and registration of pet animals throughout the union in order to combat illegal trade, but also to prevent disease outbreaks and to combat animal abuse. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ pet trafficking is a large-scale business. the vast majority of sick animals are from the illegal trade. most of the diseases that we have today are animal-based, and they've mutated to be transmitted to humans. the compatibility of registration systems should make it possible to find the animal abroad when it is only registered in the member state of origin. until now the lost animal could not be found by its owner. the text is intended to lay the foundations for a system of compatibility. i am in favour of interstate cooperation and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution supports the introduction of compatible registration systems for pet animals by referring to several findings. first, pet trafficking is the third most lucrative industry in the world, after drugs and guns. secondly, it was found that most of the animals that were sick were from illegal trade. and finally, many of the diseases that have emerged recently are animal diseases that have mutated to be able to be transmitted to humans. this proposal therefore lays the first foundations for a compatible registration system between all member states. the interstate compatibility, the animal health aspect and the goodwill of this text make us support it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, because of its health aspect and its goodwill towards animals, deserves support. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this text deals with a growing problem. the problem of trafficking in domestic animals is growing and, like all trafficking, it is a source of serious health problems, as the animals trafficked are often ill and mistreated. improving the compatibility of registration systems can be done in the framework of free cooperation, without undermining the sovereignty of states. i therefore support this proposal and vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the illegal trade in pet animals and wild animals kept as pets is growing and can pose risks to human and animal health. these animals, often the result of poor husbandry practices, are carriers of diseases transmissible to humans; 70% of new human diseases in recent decades are of animal origin. that is why i voted for the resolution to introduce a compatible system of identification and registration of pet animals throughout the union. many member states already have compulsory systems but most databases are not compatible and the traceability of animals moving within the union is limited. such a system would, inter alia, reduce the possibilities of falsification of documents and illegal trade, identify the origin of disease outbreaks, protect public and animal health and ensure effective traceability of animals in the union. we ask the commission to adopt a delegated act to this effect as soon as the regulation on transmissible animal diseases enters into force. it is time to take strong and effective action to tackle the illegal pet trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to combat the illegal trade in wild animals frequently kept as pets by introducing compatible pet registration systems in all member states. compatible systems for the identification and registration of domestic animals, in particular cats and dogs, would help to combat this illegal trade and allow better control of vaccinations of pet animals by veterinary authorities.
in writing. ‒ a resolution was adopted in 2013 on pet travel within the european union and i had already voted in favour of it. the latter regulated the travel of animals by introducing additional security features on animal passports. since then, it has been demonstrated that many illegal counterfeits have been detected and used for commercial purposes. the thousands of illegal sales of animals each year pose a real threat to animal welfare. it is also a public health problem in view of the risks of diseases transmissible to humans, consumer protection and the fight against organised crime which is involved in the real trafficking of animals, especially tropical animals. this new resolution is aimed at establishing a common identification and registration system in all member states. i voted for this resolution. the resolution calls on the commission to step up its efforts and to propose more measures against illegal trade in animals.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted today, by a narrow majority (359 votes in favour, 212 against and 31 abstentions), in a resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, an amendment calling on member states to impose a european arms embargo on saudi arabia. two months after the paris attacks, i called for an eu embargo on arms exports to countries linked to terrorism. i welcome the adoption of this resolution. the union must go further and systematically stop its arms exports to countries with direct or indirect links to terrorism. the un arms trade treaty, which entered into force in december 2014, must also be implemented urgently. the resolution also calls for a humanitarian truce and for investigations into allegations of violations of international law by saudi arabia and its allies. the saudi coalition's intervention in yemen that began in march 2015 has claimed the lives of 6,000 people, half of them civilians. the humanitarian crisis today affects more than 21 million people, or 80 per cent of the population. it is essential that arms-exporting member states take into account the protection of civilians.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution which is full of good feelings but which has no idea of the background of the yemeni issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this catalogue of good feelings totally disconnected from the very serious but above all very complex crisis that yemen is going through.
in writing. ‒ the meps who voted in favour of this resolution have apparently still not understood that political problems are not resolved by declarations of good feelings. although it has the good sense to question the strikes carried out by saudi arabia, the same is true of this resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, which i have therefore had to reject. the tribal conflicts and general insecurity in the country will not be resolved because the european union is turning a blind eye. it must leave the united nations to play its part in the peace process. the disastrous humanitarian situation 153 dispensaries which previously provided food to over 450 000 children in danger have closed, as have 158 outpatient clinics which provided essential care to almost half a million children under the age of five must not provide the union with an excuse to override the prerogatives of the member states in their role on the international stage, and brussels thus has no legitimacy to impose its arms export policy on the sovereign nations of europe.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution seeks to take stock of the current situation in yemen, where community tensions have turned into a highly complex ethnic conflict which has led to a serious humanitarian crisis now affecting almost the entire population. the text is nothing more or less than a series of trivia in an extremely complex conflict involving certain regional powers, such as saudi arabia and iran. while we are in favour of these states, in close cooperation with the united nations, trying to calm the situation in yemen, we consider that the european union has no legitimacy to intervene in this matter. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, we express our deep concern at the current violence between the houthi rebels and the saudi-led coalition. in the face of this humanitarian crisis, we call for respect for humanitarian law to allow the delivery of un aid. saudi arabia and iran, which have a key role to play in resolving the crisis, must find a compromise to end the fighting in yemen. i think that this resolution is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this text contains many good intentions, but shows a lack of knowledge of the ins and outs of the yemeni case. it also tends to impose the union's arms policy on the states and to give the union an unjustified international role. finally, there is a lack of discernment in relation to the controversial state of saudi arabia. for these reasons i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ on thursday, february 25, i voted in favour of a resolution calling for a ceasefire in attacks on civilians, emergency and medical personnel, ground fighting and shelling in yemen to allow emergency aid to reach the yemeni people. we regret that the humanitarian situation in yemen is deteriorating every day. the conflict in yemen has killed more than 6,100 people, nearly half of them civilians, and wounded about 30,000, according to the un. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. the european parliament also called for an embargo on arms supplies to saudi arabia, criticising its air strikes and the naval blockade of yemen, which have killed thousands of people.
in writing. in yemen, 6,000 people, including 3,000 civilians, have been killed in a conflict that is in clear violation of international law. in the face of this unacceptable situation, i supported this resolution to call for a ceasefire that allows humanitarian access to the yemeni people and to ask the eu to impose an arms embargo on saudi arabia, the country that leads the arab-sunni coalition which has been shelling the population in its schools, hospitals and aid centres since march 2015. my support for this embargo is in line with the union's 2008 common position on arms exports. this decision requires member states, when exporting arms, to take into account the country of destination's compliance with international humanitarian law. the embargo should be in place until the end of hostilities and the resumption of negotiations.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, like the european union's 'human rights' ideology in international relations, is full of good sentiments, but has no idea of the background to the yemeni affair. it does not address the real issues that are shaking the conflict, and it evokes the implications of many harmful actors in the region (islamist terrorist groups). it does not mention the decisive role of saudi arabia and its allies in this conflict and takes a timid stance towards these actors, who are implicitly supported by eu member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. i am of course opposed to any acts which are contrary to fundamental rights and international law, and which are proven by neutral and independent actors. the situation in yemen is indeed unsustainable for a majority of civilians and a swift solution involving a political and democratic resolution for yemen must be found so that civilians, humanitarians and journalists no longer suffer the effects of this war. however, this resolution, by unilaterally and unbalancedly blaming the actors involved in the conflict, was unfortunately not in the direction of a solution to the crisis based on dialogue between all these actors. this resolution was adopted.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in yemen has become particularly dire since the intervention of a coalition of regional states against the houthi rebels. the conflict has left more than 6,000 dead, more than 30,000 wounded and 80 per cent of the yemeni population in need of humanitarian aid, according to the un. it is important that the european union and its parliament be the voice of respect for international law and fundamental rights. however, the aim of this resolution was more to punish and blame certain actors in this crisis than to really pacify the situation. i therefore abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen. it is a text full of good sentiments, but it has no idea of the background of the yemeni case. i would like to denounce the postponement of the vote on this resolution, due to a mission of the foreign affairs committee of this parliament to saudi arabia which was to take place after the vote on this resolution at the first part-session in february. there is no point in voting resolutions if we do not even have the courage to defend them in front of the governments concerned.
in writing. ‒ the saudi coalition's intervention in yemen has resulted in more than 6,000 deaths, half of them civilians. this humanitarian crisis now affects 80 percent of the population. an expert report to the un security council indicates that the belligerents deliberately target civilian populations and infrastructure, in violation of international humanitarian law. the resolution therefore calls for a humanitarian truce and for investigations into allegations of violations of international law by saudi arabia and its allies. the socialists and democrats, through an amendment, wanted to go further by calling for the introduction of a european embargo on arms sales to saudi arabia. such a decision would be in line with the 2008 eu common position on arms exports, which requires member states, when exporting arms, to take into account the country of destination's compliance with international humanitarian law. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution because it sends a strong message to the belligerents.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen has worsened since the houthis took over the capital sanaa. at least 5,979 people have been killed since the conflict began and according to the humanitarian needs overview 2016 (hno) released in november 2015, 21.2 million people, or 82% of yemen's population, are in need of humanitarian assistance. the resolution condemns the 'saudi-led military intervention in yemen' and also condemns the eu member states for continuing to sell them arms, arguing that they are 'used to commit serious violations of international humanitarian law and to undermine regional peace, security and stability'. the resolution deplores the violations of the ceasefire and "stresses the need to coordinate humanitarian action under the auspices of the united nations". i am voting for this resolution which clearly denounces the actions of saudi arabia and is in line with the un.
in writing. ‒ apart from the gue motion for a resolution, which was very good on the substance, the others are full of good feelings but they do not, it seems to me, have a precise idea of the substantive problems in this case. in addition, most of the groups wanted to impose the union's arms export policy on the member states. this is something that is not acceptable. i therefore voted against these proposals.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is paved with good intentions but it ignores the root causes of the situation in yemen and deliberately ignores the reality of yemen. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ as is often the case in foreign policy (in which it has no competence or legitimacy), the european union sets itself up as a lesson-giver and aligns the good feelings but does not analyse the real situation and does not take all the elements into account. this motion for a resolution makes me even more convinced that it would be disastrous for france to allow itself to be locked into a diplomacy of the european union without vision and without intelligence and that it must instead speak with its sovereign voice in the midst of the concert of nations. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution calling for a ceasefire in yemen. parliament was extremely concerned about the worsening humanitarian situation in the region and the air strikes by the saudi-led coalition, and called for all parties to respect human rights and for humanitarian action to be coordinated. the resolution calls for an embargo on arms sales to saudi arabia to ensure effective protection of human rights, particularly in view of the serious suspicions that schools, hospitals and aid centres are being targeted.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, following the houthi rebellion against the government of abd rabbo mansour hadi, a civil war broke out in yemen. the yemeni president was calling on saudi forces supported by the gulf cooperation council, giving the conflict an open dimension. the result was a rapid and tragic escalation in the deployment of gulf cooperation council ground forces. this escalation of the conflict has seriously worsened the humanitarian situation in the country and created a major risk of destabilisation in the horn of africa, exacerbating the situation in the middle east. the european parliament has taken action to help 21 million people, or more than 80% of the yemeni population, who are in need of humanitarian assistance. in this resolution we call upon the international community to assume its responsibilities in order to provide the necessary humanitarian aid. we urge the warring parties to allow this humanitarian aid to be effectively implemented by ending the blockade and decreeing a humanitarian truce. finally, we call on the commission to impose an embargo on arms supplies to saudi arabia, in order to ensure that international law is respected.
in writing. ‒ the scene of a tremendous popular movement in 2011, yemen has been at the heart of a deadly conflict for the past year, for which saudi arabia is the main responsible. the civilian population, already among the poorest in the world, is paying the price every day, including in the context of the political exploitation of the religious question. the resolution calls for a ceasefire to allow at least humanitarian aid to the yemeni people. it calls on all parties, in particular the regional powers, to make every effort to find a political solution to this war. the bombings by saudi arabia and their disastrous consequences (destroyed infrastructure, schools and hospitals) are aggravating the instability of the country and the main beneficiaries are the terrorist groups... i welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by my group, in particular, calling on the union to impose an embargo on arms supplies to saudi arabia. i find it surprising that the elected representatives of the national front, who are supposedly so critical of the gulf countries, have chosen to reject both this amendment and the final text. understand who can. i myself voted in favour of this resolution, which is in the interest of the yemeni people.
madam president, the security of the european union is being seriously threatened by the most insane form of terrorism known to man. thousands of european citizens are taking part in these attacks, often by going to the middle east for training and then returning home. hundreds of europeans have been killed in these conditions over the past decade. it is generally agreed that the development of a common european air passenger file will enable us to trace their movements as closely as possible and prevent future attacks. we worked there for three years. on such a sensitive subject, the 28 governments have agreed and our committee, which has worked a lot on this agreement, has itself given its approval. this agreement balances the requirements of security with the requirements of safeguarding individual freedoms. some of our colleagues had wanted the negotiation of the regulation on the protection of personal data to be advanced in parallel. that requirement is now lifted. meanwhile, new massacres have taken place in paris, and since then the threat has only grown worse with the chaos of migration. in these circumstances, a real race is being waged between the terrorists and our democracies. we can no longer use procedural arguments to delay our decision. as the rapporteur has said, it is now time for each group, for each member of parliament, to take responsibility and publicly state to the european citizens what priority it gives or does not give to the fight against the most barbaric form of terrorism.
madam president, i rise to support mrs harms's proposal. i just got back from turkey yesterday. the testimonies we received there were overwhelming. it is true that journalists are persecuted: at least 67 journalists, according to government sources, including those from zaman, the main opposition newspaper under protection, which reappeared yesterday curiously displaying a pro-government line, but also journalists from cumhuriyet, another opposition newspaper. we visited the armutlu district, the main alevi district of istanbul, where we met the family of dilek dogan, who was murdered by the police as she was returning to her apartment. there are also academics: 300 have just been charged with terrorism for the sole reason that they denounced the situation in the south-east. the situation in the south-east, where more than 768 kurds have been murdered since july, including 98 children and 87 women - probably terrorists! 255 in cizre alone in conditions which are unbearable, even unworthy of the international law of war. we are all afraid that this will happen again in sur, the historic capital, the historic old town, where the main armenian church in the region is located. we therefore ask for a debate and we think it is time to have one on the human rights situation in turkey.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to see that the work done here in the european parliament is often of much higher quality than that proposed by the european commission. i would simply say that the continuation of the fruit, vegetable, banana and dairy distribution programme in schools is a good thing, and a very good thing. however, i can see that he is still having great difficulties. the text also allows member countries to implement the programme in the way they wish and to encourage the use of local products. we therefore call for support for this programme, this report, and for short-term supply, local supplies and products from european agriculture to be maintained at all times.
in writing. i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr tarabella, for the work that has been done and his persistence despite the difficulties encountered in this dossier since 2014. i am glad that parliament and the council have reached agreement. i believe that the issue of healthy eating is of paramount importance for the younger population in europe, as the risk of obesity continues to increase. this type of diet is a habit to be formed from childhood. the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools is therefore, in my view, a useful programme, both for the health of europeans and for the actors in the sectors concerned. i have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject on many occasions, so i will not go into too much detail. i would just like to point out that i think it is important to maintain a distinction between the two programmes, ensuring that the specific characteristics of fruit and vegetables on the one hand and milk and milk products on the other are taken into account.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, contrary to what you say, recent events have shown us that animal welfare is not so well respected. the practices of some slaughterhouses do not even seem to take this into account. it is therefore necessary to take measures concerning animal health, as proposed in the text, but this welfare must be respected at the end of the chain, because food safety and therefore human health are also at stake. however, this may be threatened by the links between animal welfare, animal health and foodborne diseases. stress, possible mistreatment and the manner of slaughter can promote the development of diseases, such as e. coli or salmonella infections, for example, and this depends on the people and how they treat the animals when they are farmed, of course, but also on the transport, stunning and slaughter methods. the netherlands has decided to impose stricter rules on ritual slaughter, including stunning and special labelling. what common sense! because slaughtering animals that take several minutes to die is contrary to your principles of animal welfare, which, in fact, is not respected at all by these methods of ritual slaughter. the health risks of slaughtering are also known, as this technique facilitates the re-entry of germs from the intestines and stomach, which escape through the wound and thus contribute to contamination of the meat. i therefore ask the commission to take the necessary measures to ensure that the intolerable practices of certain slaughterhouses, which discredit a difficult profession, are no longer accepted.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, thank you for accepting my question. mrs petir, you rightly stress the importance of combating the overuse of antibiotics. however, is it not the union's agricultural policy that is encouraging this drift? it has done everything possible to transform traditional agriculture into an agricultural industry. this has led to the creation of giant farms, in which livestock are confined. the risk of disease is therefore increased, the need for antibiotics is increased and this creates a danger to human health. so is this animal health report not really an alibi to give oneself a good conscience and to cover up this terrible failure of the union's agricultural policy?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the liberalisation of port services is an old european sea serpent. although the european commission has already suffered two failures in the early 2000s, it is back in charge: never two without three. the commission's proposal is unacceptable. on the one hand, it is trying to standardize the major european ports, which have different organizations, thus preventing member states and port managers from framing these services in the light of experience. on the other hand, under the pretext of competitiveness and with a view to attracting more investment, it emphasizes the need to liberalize certain services. this would have the harmful effect of preventing states from requiring certain services to be carried out under the national flag for security reasons. it is not possible to replace qualified seamen, pilots or tugboat operators with underqualified, underpaid people working on a ship flying a flag of convenience. the amendments by the committee on transport are positive, but in the end this regulation will be an empty shell. so why continue to harmonize and privatize at all costs? do we want our ports, which are strategic elements of our economy, to be bought up by foreign investors, as was the case recently with piraeus, which was taken over by the chinese group cosco? for these reasons we shall vote against the commission's proposal and against the european parliament's proposal.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time that the european commission has tried to impose the liberalisation of port services in europe. the name of the organization has been changed to 'port services organisation', but we are not to be fooled, this is again a matter of competing services such as loading, towing and steering in a whole range of ports, even though many of them are very different from each other. what works in rotterdam, hamburg or antwerp, which alone account for 20% of the transport of goods in europe, does not necessarily work in a port like le havre. unfortunately, your impact study does not take into account the specific features of the ports. what is worse, it imposes a uniform vision in disregard of reality, in disregard of people's experience, in disregard of environmental requirements, in disregard of social requirements. our objective should be to protect the coastlines and port safety on the one hand, but also to protect the workers on the other. all of this is now in jeopardy because of your project. the main demand of european ports is not liberalisation. what they are asking for is a clarification of european rules, for example on state aid. the commission has for years refused to publish specific guidelines on state aid to ports. even if some derogations from liberalisation were obtained in the negotiations, this text does not present enough safeguards, real progress, to be able to be supported. in these circumstances, we can only vote against this proposal.
madam president, commissioner, the text on port services has long been a mythical creature of which we have heard much but have never seen. however, after months of work, our socialist rapporteur, knut fleckenstein, has managed to draw up a text which we will be asked to vote on tomorrow. this text is the result of long and laborious negotiations to reach compromises which have radically transformed the commission's original ultra-liberal proposal. i myself, together with other colleagues, have done a lot of amendment work and i am glad that knut fleckenstein has taken over a large part of it. the obligation to fly the national flag for the most sensitive services is mentioned, which will stabilise the legal situation of ports that already comply with it. public service obligations are also written in black and white in the report, which is in line with the aim of a more social europe. financial transparency is a key point of the text, which will allow fairer and healthier competition between european ports, but smaller or more vulnerable ports will not have as many administrative obligations as larger ones, to avoid them being suffocated by the weight of bureaucracy. the text as adopted by the committee on transport and tourism provides the social guarantees we socialists need, while at the same time giving the member states the necessary leeway to maintain their national models. there is a great variety of port organisation in europe and there is no need to impose a single standard which, moreover, would be less effective than existing models. the present text is satisfactory and should not be reduced to a trilogue. it is the position of the representatives elected by the citizens that must prevail. that is why parliament must come to the negotiations with the strongest possible position, and this will be done by the most unanimous vote possible. tomorrow we are going to vote on the text which will serve as the basis for the trilogue: it is not a question of having a text at any price, but of having a good text. the question will be settled when agreement has been reached with the council and the commission: if the result is disappointing, parliament will then be able to exercise its co-decision power by rejecting it, because in this case it is better not to have harmonisation than bad harmonisation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr benedek jávor, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report 2014 on the protection of the eu's financial interests fight against fraud (2015/2128(ini)) (a8-0026/2016).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 march 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- oral question to the commission on the communication from the commission entitled 'towards a thriving data economy' (com(2014) 0442) by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000021/2016 - b8-0116/2016) (2015/2612 ((rsp))),- oral question to the commission on 'towards a thriving data economy' by vicky ford, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000040/2016 b8-0351/2016) (2015/2612 ((rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are used to the commission's methods. there's always a profit. we are made to dream that through sharing you will gain productivity, growth and jobs. but is this pooling done in the name of and within the framework of a european strategy? is there a will to build self-sustaining platforms, capable of competing with google, facebook, amazon and skype? is there an industrial policy to create sufficient data storage capacity? no, i'm not going. the european strategy is to open up to the technologies of american domination and to the large private companies that have a monopoly on this data. i would like to raise a fundamental issue. private data is sold. the raw material is man. shouldn't the sale of this data be banned? instead of making it private or state property, should it not be made truly public property belonging to the citizens? that's the problem with freedom.
madam president, eight hundred is the number of whales that are currently being slaughtered each year in the faroe islands, in the utmost indifference. whales are being killed in far greater numbers than are needed for local consumption. furthermore, the consumption of whale meat poses a health risk to humans, since it contains mercury and toxins. children are even allowed to watch the slaughter and subsequent cutting. although the faroe islands are legally independent from denmark and i have a deep respect for traditions and food requirements, it is more than urgent to start negotiations with the faroese authorities and denmark to better regulate grindadráp and avoid any health risks, and then gradually stop this despicable practice. you can tell how civilized a people is by the way they treat animals, gandhi said. it is therefore high time that we react and stop condoning these massacres by complicit silence.
madam president, the hunt for hares with galgos is an ancient tradition in spain which, however, leads to unacceptable deviations. wounded in their hearts by a dog deemed inferior to the others, thousands of hunters, supposedly to clear their honor, indulge in barbarism by mistreating their animals. every year 50,000 galgos are beaten, amputated, burned alive, skinned or starved to death - the sad fate of these poor animals. the most sadistic of the masters even hang the animal with a rope, neither too short nor too long, so that the asphyxiation lasts as long as possible. dogs that are not killed immediately will end up in the kennel, a veritable animal hell, to be gassed without even being offered for adoption. very few are eventually housed in shelters. these abuses are intolerable. they are hurting our fellow citizens, and the european texts on animal welfare force us to consider the matter. the enlightenment philosopher kant said that cruelty to an animal is the violation of a duty of man to himself. it seems essential to raise awareness among young people about the situation of the galgos through educational programmes, to support the associations working for their protection and to ensure that the animal protection rules voted by this assembly are actually applied. spanish people, stop this atrocity.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for your words which demonstrate a very strong commitment both personally and politically, as commissioner responsible for the issue of equality between men and women. you have given us a number of clarifications, you have indicated a number of directions and you have once again demonstrated the european commission's high priorities in improving the socioeconomic situation of women and combating violence against women. the european parliament has always been a party to the principle of subsidiarity, and it is in this spirit that it has been able to take up the challenge of the principle of subsidiarity. the improvement of the socioeconomic situation of women is simply a matter of competitiveness, an issue of equality, an issue of justice between men and women. it is about improving the economic situation of our continent by combating the human waste of women's unfulfilled potential. women in europe are just as well trained, just as well educated as men, and so there is a real waste, a real waste of human resources and a loss of potential, in not giving women the full space and responsibility to which they can aspire in the labour market. we in the epp group are particularly concerned, of course, and we will be working actively in the coming weeks and months on the instruments, the ways of improvement that can be proposed, that can be implemented at the initiative of the european institutions, but we will mainly ask the member states to face up to their responsibilities in terms of reducing wage inequalities and reducing pension inequalities. the reduction of the gender pay gap and the gender pension gap seem to us to be the two major issues on which we need to make rapid progress in the coming months in terms of improving the socioeconomic situation of women. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i will be extremely brief and ask my colleague constance le grip the following question: does she think it would be interesting to promote the adoption, at the level of the 28 states of the european union, of the copé-zimmermann law, which was adopted in france and which proposes to be completed by 2017? but could the deadline at european level be delayed by one or two years? parity in the boards of directors of large companies in order to promote the diffusion, in the executive bodies of companies, of the idea of parity and to promote the presence of women in the economic executive bodies of our world?
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, recent studies show that when there is a legislative instrument that strongly encourages more parity and more representation of women on the boards of large listed companies, there is real progress, not only on the board itself, but also in all other decision-making bodies. i would like to welcome the commitment that commissioner jourová has just shown on the draft women on boards directive, which the european parliament adopted by a large majority almost two years ago and to which our group is very committed. yes, of course, we need european legislative instruments to strengthen the presence of women on the boards of large listed companies.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i have just returned from iraq, where i visited christian women who were being hunted down and persecuted by the islamists during a humanitarian mission. for decades i have been committed to women and their dignity in europe. i am therefore astonished to read the report by our colleague. we can see in it the best illustration of libertarian socialism and disconnected from reality. where did you hear that women were seeking asylum as lgbti victims? what is the meaning of this community membership outside the large bourgeois cities of western europe? by proposing to extend the criteria for asylum to concepts as vague as inappropriate, you increase the risk of even more mass immigration. how can one prove that one is a victim of persecution because of one's alleged intersex sex? what evidence will be required? as a woman of europe, i am saddened by the pernicious use you make of the condition of women in the name of your moral dictatorship.
madam president, the european parliament has dedicated this international women's day to the issue of women refugees and asylum seekers, and the many children who accompany them. of course, no political group, no member of parliament, and indeed no human being in this house, can remain indifferent to the human distress, to the poignant humanitarian situation, which is increasingly manifesting itself at the frontiers of europe and also in a number of european countries, in the case of the situation of women refugees or asylum seekers. nevertheless, we in the epp group wanted to table an alternative motion for a resolution on the honeyball report because we could not agree 100% with the recommendations in the report. this resolution therefore focuses on proposals that are both dignified and humane, but also realistic and responsible in terms of the reception of women political refugees, women refugees and asylum seekers. we want to make concrete proposals, again realistic and reasonable, which are directly linked to specific needs - the establishment of specific procedures which are really geared to the needs of women, especially pregnant women, for example - and which provide pragmatic and again reasonable responses. we also wanted to make it a top priority to combat all forms of trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, which is often the work of mafia networks.
madam president, on this international women's day, let us think of the women refugees and asylum seekers who are coming to europe to escape war and are very vulnerable. their critical situation requires the european union to fully integrate the gender dimension into its asylum policies. i welcome the excellent work of mary honeyball, who has very well presented in her report the measures which are essential to protect women and safeguard their rights throughout the asylum procedure. under the control of ruthless smugglers, many women are subjected to physical violence and sexual abuse on the way to exile. like unaccompanied minors, they are at high risk of falling into the hands of human trafficking networks. these worrying findings call for more cooperation at union level to combat trafficking and smuggling of migrants. we also call on the member states to immediately end the detention of children, pregnant women, victims of rape and sexual violence, and victims of trafficking, as it only aggravates their trauma in the face of the violence they have already suffered. finally, the european union must pay particular attention to lgbti refugees and asylum seekers, who may be subject to additional persecution because of their sexual orientation. in the face of the intolerable violence suffered by these women and girls, a specific approach is therefore needed to ensure their reception and integration into europe in dignified and humane conditions. it is simply regrettable that the european right has opposed this text, which is essential to highlight a reality that has been too often ignored.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i hope everyone now understands that in the current humanitarian crisis, refugee women, who are increasing in number, are a particularly vulnerable group. on the occasion of international women's day and with your presence, mr. united nations high commissioner for refugees, we are highlighting the living conditions, and sometimes the survival, of these women. i will give the floor to one of them, reem, a young syrian woman. i quote: "i could never sleep in the camps, i was too afraid that someone would touch me. the tents were all mixed, and i witnessed violence. the women can't really complain and don't want to cause any problems that might disrupt their journey". this testimony gathered by amnesty international is not from a woman in syria, iraq or i don't know where else, who is suffering from endemic violence. it's happening here in europe, as these women flee the horror of war in their home countries, they continue to live in fear of assault at every stage of their journey. what reem's heartbreaking testimony reminds us is that immigration policies have, up to now, given too little importance to the issue of gender. the revision of the asylum package has raised the bar somewhat, but implementation on the ground is still far too weak. as my colleague mary honeyball's report recommends, this special attention to migrant women must be given at all stages of their journey. this means from the asylum procedure itself, through reception conditions and integration measures. this also means that the reception staff must be trained. this requires the establishment of sanitation facilities and non-blended dormitories and access to appropriate health care. what reem's testimony also strongly reminds us is that there is an urgent need for action. the european union and its member states can no longer continue to multiply european summits without taking decisions on effective and collective actions to combat the humanitarian and moral crisis in which the european union is currently plunged. there are ways, however, of creating and strengthening the opening up of legal and safe routes to europe. i see this as the best way of fighting smugglers, who continue to enrich themselves. the european union must also be able to provide a genuine mechanism of intra-european solidarity for a fair sharing of responsibility. the relocations from greece and italy, which are currently taking place in trickle-down fashion (i think 600 people), must be implemented with political will. we also look forward to the commission's proposal for a revision of the dublin regulation and hope that this revision will radically change the fundamentals. ensuring full and consistent application of the common european asylum system throughout the union, so that seeking asylum in europe does not continue to be a lottery or a shopping spree; finally, strengthen cooperation with third countries of transit and origin, on clearly defined and balanced terms, including in particular respect for human rights obligations. in the wake of the eu-turkey summit, this balance is particularly crucial.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has adopted new rules to better prevent and stop outbreaks of serious animal diseases such as avian influenza and african swine fever. the adoption of this new legislation simplifies a regulation that is more than 50 years old, and i welcome this, as it is an important victory that strengthens citizen democracy by putting the main actors back at the heart of the system in the development of emergency plans. the increase in trade, climate change and the mutation of infectious agents are now increasing the risk of the emergence of previously unknown diseases such as avian influenza, which is now affecting the entire palm tree sector very severely. as such, i can only welcome the strengthening of prevention and biosecurity to protect not only animal health but also human health and the environment. however, the available budget for financing health measures in case of crisis remains largely insufficient. it is essential that the european commission implement a compensation mechanism that allows for a swift response to the violence of these crises and their health, economic and human impact. unfortunately, prevention is not the answer.
in writing. ‒ the creation, as envisaged in the text, of a database on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics and other substances could be used to denounce unfair competition in certain countries, but this is entirely secondary to this report. under the pretext of simplification, this regulation gives the commission new prerogatives, which are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ there is already a lot of eu law on animal welfare, which applies to various species or activities, and on environmental standards. in a difficult economic environment for our farmers, i did not vote for this amendment because it would add constraints and difficulties to our european milk and cattle producers, who are struggling to make a living from their work.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of simplification, the regulation in question grants new prerogatives to the commission. the only positive element i see, in this case the more cautious use of antibiotics for animals, is not enough to make this text acceptable. that is why i voted for the single amendment rejecting the council's position, which again gives the commission the green light.
in writing. ‒ recent news shows that animal welfare is not being respected as much, especially in view of the practices of some slaughterhouses in france. of course, measures must be taken for the health of animals, but there is also a risk to human health, because stress, abuse or slaughter methods can promote the development of diseases. but this regulation, under the pretext of simplification, actually gives the european commission new prerogatives. it is also not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity according to the austrian parliament. the establishment of a european database on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics, etc., is the only positive element, since it will make it possible to denounce the dumping of certain member states. i voted in favour of this text, however, which allows the council's position to be rejected so as not to give the commission more power.
in writing. ‒ although this text contains positive elements such as the establishment of a european database on the use of microbials, antibiotics, etc., it does give the european commission new prerogatives. i therefore voted for the single amendment rejecting the text.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of simplification, this new regulation, supported by the council, risks once again extending the scope of the european commission's powers and thus violating the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaty on european union. the positive aspects of the establishment of a european database on the use of antimicrobials and antibiotics are not sufficient to offset the risks of member states' dispossession of animal health legislation. that is why i voted for the amendment rejecting the council's position.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to establish a single framework for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals and humans and to establish a harmonised animal health strategy. while the community acquis currently consists of 50 basic directives and regulations, as well as some 400 secondary legislation, this text is therefore of crucial importance in terms of simplification but also in a difficult health context in france (blue-blooded sheep fever and avian influenza) and in europe (swine fever). the report, in addition to establishing a single framework of provisions, emphasises the responsibility of actors and basic knowledge of health risks, the notification and monitoring of health risks to control diseases, the obligation for member states to develop response plans to deal with certain and to carry out simulation exercises, the registration, approval, traceability and movements of terrestrial, aquatic or other types of animals and the standards and requirements applicable to exports and third countries dispatching animals and products of animal origin in order to prevent the introduction of animal diseases into the union. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. this legislation provides for uniform measures to be taken for the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases. the text establishes a single, precise and transparent regulatory framework to safeguard animal welfare and food safety, while taking account of the emergence of new diseases or food crises.
in writing. ‒ in recent decades, health crises have multiplied: mad cow disease, avian influenza, swine influenza. the health status of farm animals in the european union should therefore be continuously improved in order to prevent the emergence of new crises with serious consequences, not only for public health but also for farmers. animal health legislation is an essential part of the answer. it will ensure that animal health rules are updated at european level and will oblige all breeders, traders and animal owners to apply the principles of good animal husbandry practice and to use veterinary medicines with caution in order to avoid the spread of infectious animal diseases.
in writing. ‒ the selimovic report aims to establish a single framework for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals and humans, while establishing a harmonised animal health strategy across the union. this text is of crucial importance in a difficult health context in france (blue-blood fever and avian influenza) and in europe (swine fever), which is why i voted for this report. in this text we emphasize the obligation for member states to draw up intervention plans to deal with certain diseases (vaccinations and control measures in the event of outbreaks) and to carry out simulation exercises, as well as the importance of standards and requirements applicable to exports and third countries dispatching animals and products of animal origin in order to prevent the introduction of animal diseases into the european union. finally, we have taken care of animal welfare by mentioning good practices in the fight against disease.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this single amendment to reject the council's position on this subject. the latter, for the sake of greater simplification, wished to give more power to the commission. the establishment of a european database on the use of antimicrobials and antibiotics, amongst others, could have helped to expose the dumping of certain member states, but this was a secondary element in relation to the need to defend the principle of subsidiarity, which the austrian parliament claimed was not respected by this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rejection amendment because i think the council wants to give the commission too much power on this issue.
in writing. overall, this regulation, under the pretext of simplification, grants new prerogatives to the european commission. the austrian parliament has stressed that it does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the main positive element is the establishment of a european database on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics and other substances, which can be an asset in denouncing dumping by certain member states. the vote on an amendment for rejection makes sense to vote in favour, which means that the council's position, which is to give the commission even more power, can be rejected. i therefore voted in favour of rejecting this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues jasenko selimovic and marit paulsen on european legislation on transmissible animal diseases. the commission's legislative proposal suggests implementing new provisions for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals or humans. the proposal will thus establish a single, simplified and transparent framework for achieving greater efficiency. i therefore supported this proposal which aims to combat animal diseases in order to improve animal health, animal welfare and food safety for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to harmonise in a single framework the measures to combat animal diseases transmissible to animals and to humans. this also allows for the response to the emergence of new animal diseases (swine fever or avian influenza) in the union. it was therefore necessary to simplify the rules and respond to new health challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this rejection because the council's position, which it opposes, is to give the commission even more power in the field of animal health.
in writing. ‒ the regulation put to the vote by parliament and the council concerns transmissible animal diseases. it proposes in particular the abolition of certain practices in the field of food safety, which gives the european commission new prerogatives. although i am in favour of the establishment of a european database on the use of antibiotics and other antimicrobials, as proposed in the text, i voted for the rejection amendment and therefore against this text. i cannot accept a new interference by the european union in the politics of the member states.
in writing. - i voted for this rejection amendment. this animal health regulation, under the guise of simplifying things, actually proposes to give more powers to the european commission, to the extent that national parliaments have pointed out that this text does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the only vote was on an amendment for rejection, an amendment which allowed for opposition to this regulation, which i therefore supported.
in writing. ‒ animal health is a concern for the european union because of its links with public health and food safety, but also because of the economic costs that animal diseases can generate. the commission proposal aims to simplify the existing rules on disease surveillance and control in order to make them more effective. the report is full of good intentions, and it is accompanied by pompous statements on animal welfare, even though the commission regularly publishes 'recommendations on animal husbandry' which completely deny this principle. i would nevertheless note that particular attention has been paid to the problems of antimicrobial resistance and a recommendation to 'reduce the administration of antibiotics to animals' which shows a certain lucidity in the way pharmaceutical companies operate. i am voting for this very tentative text.
in writing. ‒ i note that the creation, as envisaged in the text, of a database on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics and other substances could be used to denounce competition at any cost from certain countries. but when we look at the text as a whole, this is quite secondary. in fact, by developing the argument of simplification, this regulation does not mean that the european commission has no counterpart. the commission is given new prerogatives which, according to the austrian parliament, are not in line with the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the text.
in writing. ‒ this regulation, under the pretext of simplification, grants new prerogatives to the european commission, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the main positive element is the establishment of a european database on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics and other substances, which can be an asset in denouncing dumping by certain member states. this is a secondary point and the rejection amendment should be voted on.
in writing. ‒ overall, this regulation, under the pretext of simplification, grants new prerogatives to the european commission. the austrian parliament has stressed that it does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i voted in favour of rejecting the council's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to establish a single framework for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals and humans and establishes a harmonised animal health strategy throughout the union. the adoption of such measures is essential in a context where france and europe are experiencing health outbreaks such as avian influenza and swine fever.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. i would like to express my support for the selimovic report on animal health. despite the efdd group's attempt to scrap the text, parliament adopted, by a very large majority, a text improving the animal health safety rules. the new legislation will also help to prevent the risk of transmission to men.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns the adoption of the council's opinion at second reading (the text was drawn up during the previous term). overall, this regulation, under the pretext of simplification, grants new prerogatives to the european commission. the austrian parliament has stressed that it does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the main positive element is the establishment of a european database on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics, etc., which can be an asset in denouncing dumping by certain member states. i am opposed to this text, since this is a secondary point. the vote will be taken on a single rejection amendment, which i therefore vote for.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which aims to establish a single framework for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals and humans. the main aim of this text is to establish a harmonised animal health strategy throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to establish a single framework for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals and humans and establishes a harmonised animal health strategy throughout the union. the text emphasises the responsibility of actors and the basic knowledge of health risks; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. it also stresses the importance of setting standards and requirements for the export and third countries of animals and products of animal origin in order to prevent the introduction of animal diseases into the union. it is important that the european union can anticipate and respond as quickly as possible to any health threat.
in writing. ‒ overall, this regulation, under the pretext of simplification, grants new prerogatives to the european commission. the austrian parliament has stressed that it does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the main positive element is the establishment of a european database on the use of antimicrobials, antibiotics, etc., which can be an asset in denouncing dumping by certain member states. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has spoken in favour of strengthening the school fruit and milk distribution programme. i welcome this, because priority is given to fresh fruit and vegetables on the one hand, and the distribution of processed products in which sugar, salt, fats, sweeteners or artificial flavourings have been added is prohibited on the other hand, despite very active lobbying by the agri-food industry. it will bring together the school fruit and vegetable and milk programmes into one and increase the budget allocated to them to eur 250 million. this programme will encourage the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products among young europeans. the school will play a significant and central educational role in improving the eating habits of our children. it will boost local farming and short-circuits by giving priority to local and seasonal products and products from organic farming. in the context of the agricultural crisis, this programme will support small farmers and the dairy sector by allowing them to sell their products.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the distribution of products in schools. with my colleagues from the national front, we found it particularly positive that the member states remain free to implement the programme by adapting it to their own needs and specificities. this will help to promote local products and to initiate local food policies. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of the agricultural crisis, particularly in connection with the russian embargo, it is important to support eu fruit and vegetable producers. it is important to increase the consumption of these products within the internal market, and this can be done through schools.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of strengthening the school fruit and vegetables and milk distribution programme. despite active lobbying by the agri-food industry, member states are now being asked to promote healthy eating habits, to encourage short circuits by favouring local and seasonal products and products from organic farming. the main change introduced by the adopted text will be the increase in the budget allocated to this programme, which will be increased to eur 250 million. while encouraging healthier eating habits, the programme will also support small farmers to find a sustainable outlet.
in writing. ‒ this vote is the result of tough negotiations, including a heated trilogue, and it was supported by my colleagues edouard ferrand and philippe loiseau in the agri committee. we believe that this is a good measure in the sense that it leaves the member states free to implement this programme in any way they wish. the member states therefore retain their sovereignty in this area and can thus encourage the use of local products and engage in a form of national and/or regional food patriotism. finally, a measure that is in the interests of french producers!
in writing. ‒ parliament's position is the result of a general consensus between the various political groups following a number of debates. this programme is a good measure, since it organizes the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools. the text above all gives the member states the freedom to set up this programme, which therefore allows them to retain control of their sovereignty and allows the use of local products. i vote for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this programme of distributing fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools is a good measure. the member states have the possibility to encourage the use of local products. i therefore voted for this programme.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends the introduction of a scheme to support the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools, in order to promote short circuits and the nutrition of european children. the report respects the principle of subsidiarity, since it gives the member states complete freedom to implement the aid programme and therefore suggests that the member states may engage in a (however homeopathic) version of national and/or regional food patriotism. that is why i voted for this sensible programme, which must be unanimous in the interests of our children and our farmers.
in writing. ‒ a healthy and balanced diet is necessary to combat the risks of obesity and other diseases linked to poor eating habits. teaching children from an early age to consume healthy foods can also be done at school. the 'milk to school' and 'fruit and vegetables to school' programmes serve this purpose. these two previously separate programmes will now be combined under a single structure. this will simplify administrative procedures and optimise the efficiency of both programmes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to reform and merge the two european programmes for the distribution of milk and fruit and vegetables in schools, which are funded under the common organisation of agricultural markets (cmo). this is an important report in several respects. firstly, on the formal side, the european parliament has been granted co-legislature with the council on the essential points of the text (budget, criteria for financial allocation, financial transfers) under article 43 (2) of the feu treaty. secondly, these programmes will make it possible, at a time when the risk of obesity is increasing in europe, to promote healthy eating among the youngest populations. in addition, in the context of the current difficulties in the fruit and vegetables sector and the dairy market, these programmes will make it possible to mobilise eur 250 million per year under the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the council and the commission to decide.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament and also as mayor of the 7th arrondissement of paris, i know how important a regular distribution of fruit, vegetables and dairy products is for the nutritional balance of children. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to promote healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products in school canteens.
in writing. ‒ developing good eating habits starts in childhood. this is the main thrust of the regulation on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools, which was voted by the european parliament. this regulation, which aims to mobilise eur 250 million a year to provide fruit, vegetables and dairy products to pupils, while supporting our farmers, will also focus on the educational dimension of nutrition.
in writing. ‒ the tarabella report aims to reform and merge the two programmes for the distribution of milk and fruit and vegetables in schools, funded under the common organisation of agricultural markets. in view of the decline in the consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products among young people, i voted in favour of this report. the unification of these programmes will encourage the consumption of healthy products in schools, with priority given to local and seasonal products, while taking into account regional eating habits. member states will therefore have to give priority to the distribution of fresh and local products over processed products in order to encourage healthy eating habits. finally, i welcome the fact that this initiative is coming from the french fruit and vegetable sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which comes at the end of its legislative journey, during which parliament has weighed in with all its might i took my part as rapporteur for the 2016 budget opinion to increase the financial envelopes concerned (in particular the milk envelope, which is important in terms of outlets in the context of the agricultural crisis, which goes from 100 to 120 million euros) and the distribution of budget envelopes between the member states (the distribution criteria will take into account the share of children aged six to ten in the population and the degree of development of the region within the member state). we have also opposed, for health reasons, attempts to introduce the possibility of distributing processed products to which sugar, salt, fat, sweeteners or artificial flavourings have been added. finally, the programme is supported by the obligation to introduce the promotion of healthy eating habits, short circuits, organic farming and the fight against waste.
in writing. ‒ this programme organises the distribution of fruit, vegetables and dairy products in schools. it also leaves member states free to decide how to apply it, for example by favouring local products or by advocating regional or national food patriotism. i voted in favour of this text because it respects the sovereignty of the states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i am in favour of the distribution aid programme.
in writing. ‒ supporting certain agricultural products, even in a modest way considering the amounts involved, while allowing children to consume products that are generally good for their health is a good idea. the european parliament has also made improvements to the text: promotion of local and regional products, greater flexibility for the member states to implement the programme by adapting it to their specific needs and conditions, the possibility of extending the programme to products of local importance and recognized nutritional qualities, etc. two remarks, however: firstly, the excessive publicity given to the role of the european union, which shows only a very relative enthusiasm for these programmes, which owe their existence mainly to the insistence of parliament and some member states; the second is the focus on the 'educational' purpose of these programmes, which unfortunately all too often involve allowing children to eat food that their parents cannot afford. i shall not be prevented from supporting a text which is in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. as the risk of obesity continues to increase in europe, promoting healthy eating is a key challenge for younger populations. children should be taught to eat healthily as soon as they start school. this programme will mobilise eur 250 million per year in the framework of the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. this will be good news for our farmers, however modest, who are experiencing such a serious crisis at the moment.
in writing. only 36% of europeans eat the 5 fruits and vegetables recommended for a healthy and balanced diet and one in three european children is now overweight or obese. that is why i voted in favour of the report by s&d mep marc tarabella, which proposes to strengthen the aid scheme for the free distribution of fresh fruit, vegetables and milk to the 30 million children aged 6 to 10 in schools throughout the year in all european countries. the proposals in this report, for which a budget of eur 270 million has been secured with european governments, will provide fresh produce to children from an early age, with a food-based educational approach, which will help to combat obesity. the programme will also promote and enhance short-circuits and local, regional, seasonal and organic products and support small farmers and the dairy sector. it will also help to combat waste.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the support of the european parliament for the scheme to support the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk and milk products in schools. these two programmes have two objectives: firstly, they help to combat obesity, which is a worrying phenomenon since the who, in a study published in 2015, revealed that europe could face an epidemic by 2030; on the other hand, they support the activities of farmers and agricultural operators, who are heavily affected by the crisis in their sector. obesity is far from an epiphenomenon. combating it by educating children and making them aware of the health risks is a good approach. finally, i welcome the mobilisation of eur 250 million per year to promote these programmes and note with satisfaction that the budget for france has been preserved.
in writing. the parliament's position was therefore based on an overall consensus between the various political factions. and for good reason: it organizes the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools. above all, this text leaves the member states free to implement this programme in any way they wish. the member states therefore retain their sovereignty in this area and can thus encourage the use of local products and engage in a form of national and/or regional food patriotism. i therefore voted for this amendment, which is a condition for the final vote, and i agree with it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marc tarabella on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools. the aim is to merge two programmes financed under the common organization of agricultural markets, one for the distribution of milk in schools and the other for the distribution of fruit and vegetables. additional educational measures will be implemented to emphasise the role of agriculture and to emphasise practices that promote health and the environment. in addition, the european parliament has been recognised as a co-legislator for the budget of these two programmes. it will therefore be able to defend the health of young people by raising their awareness of the challenges of agriculture. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the report on aid for the distribution of fruit and vegetables aims at creating a common legal basis for the distribution of fruit in schools and for aid for the distribution of milk. this will help to increase the distribution of these european farm foods in our schools and thus to promote healthier diets among young people, while supporting economic sectors currently in difficulty in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it organises the distribution of fruit and vegetables and dairy products in schools, which is good for children. it also has the merit of allowing the states the freedom to promote the use of local products, which is in line with the food patriotism advocated by the national front.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amendment, on which the final vote on the parliament and council regulation, which supports the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools, depends. it amends regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 already adopted in this field. the amendment was strongly defended by meps, who came together with a general consensus against the commission and council's wish to exclude them from the subject. this regulation is not only an excellent way of getting our children used to healthy eating practices, but it also respects the sovereignty of the member states in the implementation of this programme. in addition, this surge of freedom will allow the implementation of food patriotism at regional and national level with the use of local products.
in writing. ‒ a quarter of european schoolchildren are currently overweight or obese, and this proportion is steadily increasing. with better nutrition and the prevention of obesity at the top of the union's health priorities, the commission proposed in january 2014 to reform the school fruit and milk scheme. this report gives priority to the distribution of fresh fruit and vegetables, while prohibiting the distribution of processed products to which sugar, salt, fat, sweeteners or artificial flavourings have been added. the budget allocated to this common framework, which includes programmes to promote the consumption of fruit and milk in schools, is also being increased. in addition to tackling obesity and promoting nutrition education, the programme aims to give priority to fresh fruit and vegetables. in our outermost regions, for example, bananas and other locally produced fruits will be given priority. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text which, unusually, is unanimous among the political groups! it is a very interesting text which organizes the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools. and, to our satisfaction, the member states are free to organise this programme themselves, in the way they wish, without the commission's interference.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of my belgian colleague marc tarabella's report, i helped to validate the final agreement reached at the end of the negotiations between the three european institutions on a new eu funding scheme for the distribution of fruit and milk in schools. the final text is very ambitious. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of eu funding for the programme to finance the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk by european schoolchildren, with some eur 270 million allocated to this. at the same time, processed products to which sugar, salt, fats, sweeteners or fats have been added will be excluded from any european funding. the programme also aims to promote a healthy, balanced and sustainable diet based on short circuits, organic production and the fight against waste. this is precisely the kind of project europe needs today, although it may seem to be a small one. more than a matter of public health, it is a matter of combating the excesses of the consumer society by promoting responsible consumption and sustainable agricultural production
in writing. ‒ by providing aid for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools, the european union is seeking to solve two problems. on the one hand, in a public health objective, the increase in childhood obesity linked to an unbalanced diet. on the other hand, the agricultural crisis due to the decline in the consumption of fresh european products. for once, the text takes into account the growing intolerance to lactose and allows the distribution of processed (non-additive) dairy products. the report also encourages the consumption of local products. but it does not make it a prerequisite that these products come from organic farming, which would have been an effective way of both reorienting agricultural production towards a sector that is not in crisis and meeting public health objectives. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ parliament was very consensual on this subject in the face of the commission and the council, which wanted to withdraw the text from its judgment. this is because the diet is a good initiative to distribute these products in schools. what we found most positive in this text is that the member states remain free to implement the programme. this can be done by promoting local products and adopting patriotic food policies. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this vote is the result of tough negotiations, including a heated trilogue, due to the expulsion of parliament by the commission and the council on this issue. parliament's position was therefore based on an overall consensus between the various political groups. the programme is a good measure, organising the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools. above all, this text leaves the member states free to implement this programme in any way they wish. they can thus promote the use of local products and engage in a form of national and/or regional food patriotism. it must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this programme is a good measure: it organises the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools. above all, this text leaves the member states free to implement this programme in any way they wish. the member states therefore retain their sovereignty in this area and can thus encourage the use of local products and engage in a form of national and/or regional food patriotism. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to reform and establish a common legal and financial framework for school milk and fruit and vegetable distribution programmes. the report contains provisions requiring states to give priority to the distribution of fresh products over processed products. this will not only encourage healthy eating habits but also create a direct link between farmers and children.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. however, i would like to express my support for the text adopted allowing aid for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools. although the list of milk products authorised for distribution is still too restrictive, this aid measure is still important to ensure healthy food in schools.
in writing. ‒ this vote is the result of tough negotiations, including a heated trilogue. mr tarabella had even sent a letter, co-signed by all the groups (edouard ferrand for the enf), protesting against the commission and council's attempt to oust parliament from the house on this subject. parliament's position was therefore based on an overall consensus between the various political factions. and for good reason: it organizes the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools. above all, it leaves the member states free to implement the programme in any way they wish. the member states therefore retain their sovereignty in this area, and can thus encourage the use of local products and engage in a form of food patriotism. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr tarabella on the proposal for a regulation to bring together the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools under a single programme. the programme will have a budget of eur 250 million and will encourage the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk among more than 30 million young europeans, thus helping to combat the increase in obesity in europe. in this context, parliament strengthened the commission's proposal by prohibiting the distribution of processed products to which sugar, salt, fats, sweeteners or artificial flavourings have been added. the programme, which aims to promote short-distance transport, will also boost local agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which introduces a scheme to support the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools. this new legislation, provisionally agreed with eu ministers in december 2015, merges the now separate european school fruit and milk schemes. in the face of the growing risks of obesity, this support scheme is a useful programme for the health of europeans, and particularly for the younger population. this text will help to instill more lessons on healthy eating habits and increased and more equitable funding. the programme will mobilise eur 250 million a year to finance the distribution of dairy products and educational measures. member states will also have to promote healthier eating habits, local products, organic farming and the fight against food waste. i therefore supported this report which reminds us that the habit of eating healthy and balanced food should be established from childhood.
in writing. ‒ as overweight is becoming a real public health problem, the european parliament is committed to ensuring that 30 million european schoolchildren can benefit from fresh fruit and vegetables and from the distribution of milk at school. thanks to our mobilisation we have managed to release 250 million euros to distribute free of charge in schools healthy products from local production and short circuits. while only 36% of europeans eat 5 fruits and vegetables a day, the programme will be accompanied by awareness-raising policies to encourage european schoolchildren to adopt better nutritional practices. this will certainly not put an end to the european agricultural crisis, which has been caused by liberal deregulation, which has brought down prices and put our producers at risk. however, in the context of this violent crisis for our farmers, the promotion of short circuits is one of the levers for developing new models of sustainable agriculture. i am also pleased that we have allocated an additional eur 430 million in 2016 for the distribution of milk in schools, in order to increase our purchases and thus help european producers.
in writing. ‒ this vote is the result of tough negotiations, including a heated trilogue. mr tarabella had even sent a letter, co-signed by all the enf groups, to protest against the commission and council's attempt to force parliament out of the house on this subject. this programme is a good measure, because it organizes the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and dairy products in schools. member states retain their sovereignty in this area, and can thus encourage the use of local products and engage in a form of national and/or regional food patriotism. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ after attacking railways, the european union is now seeking to standardise and deregulate the major european ports. the committee on transport, to which i belong, has tabled amendments limiting the scope of this report by limiting the scope and the sectors concerned. these amendments were in the right direction. but that doesn't make it a good report. i have of course voted against the commission's proposal which ignores the differences between european ports, which may have very different operating methods, and which seeks to liberalize one sector again, against all common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this draft report is the first step towards fairer competition and a reduction in legal concerns for all maritime ports in the trans-european transport network. in addition, the port package iii represents a clear commitment to improve financial transparency for ports. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal to liberalize the major european ports: our group had tabled an amendment rejecting it.
in writing. ‒ the report aims, as the rapporteur writes, to modernise port services and operations in europe and to make it possible to create framework conditions to attract investment in ports. it is a laudable initiative, but as is too often the case with our institutions, neither the commission nor our parliament seems to show much respect for the principle of subsidiarity which, since maastricht, should prevail when drafting any directive or regulation. many ports in europe, particularly those run by private companies, are well managed and do not need the superficial bureaucratic regulations which this report has occasionally brought about. there is also the question of the special status enjoyed by many of our european dockers, in marseille, le havre, but also in antwerp and rotterdam, which i fear may be undermined by the implementation of this report, with its free trade spirit. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal in this case aims to help improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the ten-t (the 319 largest ports, which handle 96% of goods and 93% of passengers) compared to non-eu maritime ports, and fair competition between ten-t ports. it also aims to improve the operation and interconnection of maritime ports by creating uniform european operating rules. public subsidies to ports must also be shown in port accounts. overall, the proposed regulation now concerns only a few secondary areas of activity of ten-t ports, since the commission excludes passenger services and the handling of goods. moreover, if the tran commission's recommendations to exclude most other port operations are adopted, only the services offered directly to the user remain. once again, the states are being forced to liberalize more and more, and this will only benefit the multinationals and not the employees of the port and maritime sectors, nor the european employees and consumers as a whole. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the liberalisation of public services is affecting everyone, including port services. the european commission wants to impose on the managing authorities of european ports a separation of the different services in order to promote competition, including those which are not directly returned to the user such as dredging. the commission's proposal for a regulation, although amended by the committee on transport and tourism, is not sufficient and is preparing a much broader process of liberalization which will benefit multinationals first and may accelerate the takeover of ports such as piraeus in greece. because ports are a sovereignty issue, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fleckenstein report which aims to improve the market for port services in order to strengthen the competitiveness of ports. the aim is to facilitate access to port service activities, improve financial transparency and simplify administrative procedures. several types of services have been excluded from its scope, including freight handling services, passenger services and dredging. this report is the result of a balanced compromise.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to improve the efficiency of european ports and thus stimulate growth and trade. it proposes, in particular, to modernise and open up more to competition port services and operations to increase the competitiveness of ports. these services include towing, mooring and refuelling. in the epp group we have been particularly active in ensuring that port managers retain their freedom in the organisation of port services, thus giving them sufficient flexibility to define a commercial strategy and investment plan adapted to the needs of the site. i also consider that this text provides for administrative simplification of the market for port services, so i voted in favour.
in writing. i have approved this reform project which aims to bring down the prices of services such as mooring and towing in over 300 ports in the european union. however, this project does not require any liberalization of the sector. there is a need at the moment to improve the performance of ports, to help them cope with the changing transport and logistics requirements in europe and worldwide. europe must be competitive in a sector as important as shipping.
in writing. ‒ the european port network is characterised by a wide diversity of port organisation systems. the harmonisation of the operation of eu port services is therefore necessary. this legislation will establish a clear framework applicable to all european ports. it will reduce the cost of services provided in eu seaports by requiring port operators to be more transparent about their charges, thus ensuring fairer competition. in the long term, this legal framework will foster the development of european industry, attract investment and promote job creation in the eu's coastal regions.
in writing. ‒ the tran committee's amendments are positive in that they limit the scope of the regulation and its normative constraint. for example, dredging, piloting, mooring, towing and towing are no longer covered by the required liberalisation. in any event, as is often the case, the latter may only benefit multinationals and not employees in the port and maritime sector. i reject the need for general liberalization in the key sector of transport and port services and, in defence of the sovereignty of the states, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i do not want the management of european ports to be completely liberalised.
in writing. ‒ i have to admit that the commission is persistent. it has already failed twice to liberalize port services. the last time, the anger aroused by his project had given rise to one of the most violent protests ever held in strasbourg against a european project. like all brussels legislation which is in fact aimed at deregulation or even the breakdown of a sector, the regulation we are voting on today is presented in a good light, particularly in its intentions: promotion of competitiveness, i.e. jobs, financial transparency, in particular of state aid, administrative simplification, association of users with the economic life of ports... but behind all this, it is the free market access, first for european players and then for global players, that takes precedence over all other considerations. the rapporteur's amendments are certainly many improvements: better account being taken of the diversity of port size, activities and management, even relative protection of public service activities or activities linked to security, respect for social standards in force in the states, etc. but just because you put a bad piece of writing on it doesn't make it good. i voted against, hoping for a third failure of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it aims to increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of services provided in the european union's maritime ports. in particular, ports will be able to organise themselves more autonomously. small ports are excluded from the financial transparency provisions as this would represent an excessive administrative burden for them. finally, non-french towing and rolling companies wishing to operate in france will have to fly the french flag and thus comply with the legislation in force.
in writing. i supported the compromise text drawn up by my colleague knut fleckenstein, which radically transformed the commission's ultra-liberal initial proposal. the obligation to fly the national flag for the most sensitive services is mentioned; public service obligations are also mentioned; financial transparency is an essential point of the text; finally, the smaller or more vulnerable ports will have less administrative burden than the larger ones. the text voted here provides the necessary social guarantees, while at the same time giving the member states the necessary leeway to maintain their national models, without forcing them to liberalize and without forcing a single standard which might not work as well as existing models. it is now time to move on to the trilogue negotiations. parliament will remain vigilant in the exercise of its co-decision power: it will only vote on the final text if it is in the right direction, because it is better to have no harmonisation at all than bad harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the outcome of the votes on the report on access to the market for port services, which is in line with the interests of french ports. the commission proposal for a regulation under examination has two objectives: to ensure the modernisation of port services and operations and to promote the creation of framework conditions to attract investment in ports. in a highly competitive industry, these measures are welcome. i am therefore pleased that the ports have been given the opportunity to organise themselves autonomously and that small ports have been excluded, since they would certainly not have been able to bear the administrative burden of the new financial transparency rules. finally, i would point out that pilotage and dredging are excluded from this regulation for reasons of maritime safety.
in writing. the commission proposal in this case aims to help improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the trans-european transport network, i.e. the main road, rail and sea routes in europe. contrary to the european commission's view, the tran committee wants only port services offered directly to the user to fall within the scope of the regulation. dredging is therefore excluded as it is not a commercial service but rather a public service task. in principle, if the amendments adopted by the tran committee are positive, this is still not enough to give a favourable opinion, since once again, as in all matters relating to transport, the states are forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only the multinationals, certainly not the employees of the port and maritime sectors, nor the european employees and consumers as a whole. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague knut fleckenstein on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. this report safeguards the interests of french ports. the autonomy of port organisations is extended, while protecting small ports from overly heavy administrative burdens. in addition, towing and towing companies wishing to operate in france will have to adopt the french flag and comply with french legislation. i therefore approve this text, which must now be defended by the french government at the level of the member states. this regulation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ mr fleckenstein's report focuses on the commission's proposal to contribute to the more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of some 330 european ports. the commission hopes to create a framework to improve the performance of ports and help them cope with changing transport and logistics requirements. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission has tried on many occasions to open up port services (everything a port provides to a vessel calling at its port of call: dredging, guiding, mooring, maintenance, etc.) to competition. it had failed twice and was therefore coming back with a text that played on the financial transparency of port charges to pass its project. fortunately, previous failures and the mobilisation of trade unions and ports which did not want their economic model to be completely challenged simply to open up the market have broken the ambitions of the original text. the report, which has been rewritten by parliament, even introduces positive elements by allowing ports to require service vessels (for dredging, or to facilitate the mooring of large vessels) to comply with national law by flying the country's flag, or by guaranteeing the rights of transferred personnel if one of these port service activities is taken over by another company. i have kept in touch with trade unionists in the sector to ensure that none of their red lines are crossed and that the positive aspects of this text are maintained. i have therefore decided to support this text.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aims to establish a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports. through this proposal, the commission wants to improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the ten-t (trans-european transport network, i.e. europe's main road, sea and rail routes) compared to and between non-eu ports. the commission also aims to attract competition in ports. the regulation, however, only concerns the secondary activities of ten-t ports (passenger services and goods handling are excluded from the proposal) and encourages a forced liberalisation of this sector which will face fierce competition from multinationals. the text is therefore contrary to the interests of employees in the port and maritime sectors and of european employees and consumers in general. in order not to witness a dramatic repetition of the acquisition of the port of piraeus by the chinese shipowner coscos last january, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today has fortunately nothing in common with the commission's original, very liberal proposal. the draft regulation has many points of satisfaction, including the obligation to fly the national flag for the most sensitive services. public service obligations, in particular safety and dredging, will not be open to competition. many social safeguards have also been inserted, such as the obligation to respect the national law in force, to avoid social dumping. the text also contains a financial transparency aspect, which is of great importance to the socialist group. finally, while the commission's initial proposal did not address this crucial point, the european parliament wanted the smaller ports, particularly those in the outermost regions, to be excluded from the scope of this text. this is an essential derogation, since it avoids administrative burdens for overseas ports that are disproportionate to their actual activity. i therefore support the draft regulation as it stands, but i will be careful that the progress made is not called into question in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. even if it is now generally limited to a few areas of secondary port activity, the fact remains that this text imposes constraints on the member states and promotes ever greater liberalisation, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive, as presented by the commission, is a further step towards the liberalisation of ports and port services. the report recommends "a high degree of simplification of customs procedures to be a major economic asset for the competitiveness of ports" and "the possibility of introducing derogations to avoid disproportionate administrative burdens for the maritime ports of the trans-european comprehensive transport network". while health and environmental controls are already inadequate in ports, this new opening will further disarm europe against dumping in global free trade. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. finally, the report anchors the principle of the national flag (as in french law) in order to combat cabotage and social dumping. in the end, i am voting against, despite the few precautions added by parliament, and i am instead advocating ecological and social protectionism.
in writing. ‒ i think the amendments adopted by the committee on transport on the proposal from the european commission are good. these make it possible to reduce the number of activities concerned and to lighten their regulation. however, once again the liberal constraint is directed against the states. it is very likely that this is just a milestone on the road to ultra-liberalism, which is in no way likely to condemn the business of multinationals, but rather the condition of employees, not only of the sector in question, but also of the "consumers". i therefore voted against the commission's text and also against parliament's text, although it is much better.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal in this case aims to help improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the ten-t (trans-european transport network). in fact, the proposed regulation now covers only a few secondary areas of activity, since the commission excludes passenger services and goods handling ex officio; only direct services to the user remain. nevertheless, once again, as with all transport, the states are being forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only multinationals, and certainly not workers in the port and maritime sectors, nor european workers and consumers as a whole. it must therefore not be supported, unless we want to see european ports end up like piraeus, sold to chinese groups.
in writing. ‒ while the amendments adopted by the tran committee are positive (fewer activities concerned and less regulation in these activities), this is still insufficient to give a favourable opinion, since once again, states are forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only multinationals, and certainly not workers in the port and maritime sectors, nor european workers and consumers as a whole. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the transparency and competitiveness of european companies in order to better win back the market for port services. i particularly supported the positions which aimed, among other things, to promote freedom of organization for ports and to exclude dredging activities from the text for safety reasons.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will only benefit multinationals, and certainly not employees in the port and maritime sectors, nor european employees and consumers as a whole. i believe that ports are vital infrastructure and that the commission has no legitimacy to deprive the states of it. the excessive liberalization of the sector makes no economic sense. i refuse to see french ports handed over to private investors who have no regard for the public interest. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft regulation to increase efficiency and reduce the costs of services provided in the eu's maritime ports mainly for two reasons. firstly, the interests of french ports will be safeguarded because they will be able to continue to organise themselves freely. secondly, because small ports will be excluded from the scope of the regulation, in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens. our position is that port activity is essential to the economic health of many european territories. the negotiations with the council are now under way and i am counting on the dutch presidency to defend the positions adopted in parliament.
in writing. ‒ after months of work, the socialist rapporteur for port services has managed to draw up a compromise text which has radically transformed the commission's ultra-liberal initial proposal. i myself, together with other colleagues, have done a lot of work on amendments, and i am glad that knut fleckenstein has taken up a large part of it. the obligation to fly the national flag for the most sensitive services is mentioned, public service obligations are also included, financial transparency is an essential point of the text, but the smallest or most vulnerable ports will not have as many administrative obligations as the larger ones. the text voted today offers the social guarantees we socialists need, while at the same time giving the member states the necessary leeway to maintain their national models, without forcing them to liberalize and without forcing a single standard which might not work as well as the existing models. it is now time to move on to the trilogue negotiations, and parliament will remain vigilant in the exercise of its power of codecision: it will only vote on the final text if it is good, because it is better to have no harmonisation than bad harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ in response to the objectives of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), the commission's proposal aims to create favourable conditions for investment in ports, in order to modernise them and improve their performance. the proposal aims to increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of services provided in eu seaports by establishing a common framework for access to the market for port services. to avoid price abuse in the absence of market mechanisms, the proposal also strengthens the financial transparency of ports, both for the establishment of charges for the use of port services and infrastructure and for public financing. in addition to supporting these objectives and in view of the very wide diversity of port service organisation models in europe, the report of the competent committee of the european parliament favoured, over a single system, an approach based on 'minimum requirements' for providers and granted significant autonomy to port managers. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text, which will allow for a stronger interconnection and intelligent harmonization of the port sector in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a reform of european port services. i supported this reform because it safeguards the interests of french ports and those who work in them. the ports will benefit from greater autonomy while avoiding excessive administrative burdens for smaller ports. dredging and pilotage activities are also excluded from any liberalisation in order to guarantee maritime safety. requiring transparency in the setting of charges for the use of ports and port services, and for any public funding that ports receive, is necessary to avoid price abuse and market distortions. the aim of this reform is to increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of services provided in european seaports in order to stimulate trade. a new phase of negotiations must now begin between parliament, the commission and the member states in order to reach an agreement and make this port reform effective.
in writing. ‒ the scale of european port trade justifies the harmonisation of rules on port services, but only if it is based on high standards. while the european commission, in an ultra-liberal approach, proposed the outright liberalization of port services, the european socialists mobilized alongside the trade unions to overhaul the text in depth. so, after a work of offensive amendments, we have obtained solid assurances. we guarantee the use of national flags for sensitive services. public service obligations are included in the text, which thus takes on a social dimension. we have also made important progress on financial transparency, to put an end to unfair competition by certain ports. although i regret that the right voted against some of the amendments which i tabled with the labour party to strengthen workers' rights, it does have sufficient social guarantees for me to support it. now for the negotiations with the council. but the european transport ministers are warned that if we go back to a liberalisation project, the final text will not have my vote.
in writing. ‒ although positive, the tran committee's efforts are insufficient to give a favourable opinion on the text, since once again, as with everything related to transport, states are forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only multinationals and not workers in the port and maritime sectors, nor european workers and consumers as a whole. the european union is dangerously exposing the european port sector to the terrible example of the port of piraeus, the latest victim of ultra-liberalisation, which was sold last january to the chinese giant ship owner coscocs. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. firstly, the commission was obviously aiming to liberalize port services and operations. the aim was to create conditions to attract investors and to combat the 'poor competition' in the sector in order to 'improve the quality of port services'. following the mobilization of the trade unions and the work of the tran committee, the directive was revised in the direction of protecting social and workers' rights. emphasis has been placed on social and environmental standards, including safety and health. the possibility of a national flag has been amended, which requires compliance with national and local standards and with the collective agreements of each port in order to combat social dumping and cabotage. although we must remain very attentive to the amendments that can still be made, i voted for the directive as amended by the european parliament to give a mandate in favour of workers' rights in agreement with the trade union organizations in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report and the motion for a resolution on the grounds that the amendments it makes to the original regulation, although essentially technical, can serve political purposes. the economic indicators in question are often a means of better monitoring the member states by imposing targets on them or a means of predicting imaginary growth. it is recalled that in 2014, reforms in the methods of calculating gdp allowed for the inclusion of prostitution and other illegal activities, thus inflating growth by 0.5%. the package adopted by parliament gives the commission a lot of power, so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) are a measure of inflation providing valuable information on the deflation of economic values such as wages, rents and interest rates. they therefore form the basis for decisions on economic and monetary policy. i voted in favour of this resolution because it makes it possible to establish harmonised, and therefore comparable, statistics between the member states and thus to better coordinate economic and monetary measures within the union.
in writing. ‒ the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp) is an index of consumer prices (cpi) calculated for each of the countries of the european union and a few other european countries. it is used by the ecb as an indicator of price stability and as a means of checking compliance with the inflation convergence criterion. the amendments introduced would establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of the harmonised index of consumer prices, the harmonised index of consumer prices at constant tax rate (hicp-tc), the owner-occupied housing price index (lop) and the property price index (hipi) at union, national and sub-national level. it is a mainly technical amendment to the regulation to take better account of price variations across member states. however, these indices can be used as policy tools to better control member states by imposing targets on them... or to regain imaginary growth by changing the calculation formulas. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report presents very interesting findings concerning the increase in fraud concerning, in particular, the management of the rural development fund or, in turkey, the funds relating to the pre-accession instrument or the collection of vat. it also raises infringements of public procurement rules by the refugee fund under the pretext of an emergency situation. the report recommends a series of measures to strengthen the eu's judicial powers over the member states and to create new superstructures, such as the granting of a specific procedural right to olaf or the creation of a european public prosecutor's office with extended judicial powers, particularly in the area of vat fraud. i am deeply attached to the sovereignty of the member states in judicial matters and therefore strongly oppose these provisions. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is a proposal to amend the regulation on consumer price indices. the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp) is an index used to calculate the level of inflation and is used by the european central bank as an indicator of price stability. the rapporteur recommends that changes be made to the calculation of the hicp, mainly technical, in order to better assess national inflation rates. however, it is essential to remain vigilant in the face of these changes, which can be used as political tools to better control member states by imposing specific targets on them or to regain imaginary growth. it was in this context that the integration of prostitution and other illegal activities into the calculation of gdp had inflated the economic growth of the member states of the european union. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to establish a common legal framework between member states for the definition of consumer price indices. these data are essential for assessing and measuring the outcome of monetary policies in the euro area and the evolution of price stability within the union. the text introduces common definitions between the member states. we also call on the european commission to prepare a report on property ownership in order to better protect the union against the risk of a housing bubble. i voted in favour of this text, in support of these objectives.
in writing. the aim of this text was to provide a common framework for the production of price indices, whether on consumption, housing or property prices. these statistical tools should thus make it possible to better understand the deflation of certain economic values (wages, rents, interest rates) at european level. if we want common economic and monetary policies, we must have common tools. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendments amended the regulation on consumer price indices with a view to improving it. nevertheless, it does at the same time give the commission considerable power through delegated acts, for example for the integration of sectors such as prostitution and illegal trafficking in the calculation of the price index. for these reasons, i opposed these changes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because i question the inclusion of illicit sectors in the calculation of the indices.
in writing. this report is a proposal to amend the regulation on consumer price indices. the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp) is an index of consumer prices (cpi) calculated for each of the countries of the european union and a few other european countries; it allows the level of inflation to be calculated in the most comparable way for all countries and is used by the european central bank as an indicator of price stability and as a means of checking compliance with the convergence criterion on inflation. however, caution is needed as these indices can be used as policy tools to better control member states by imposing targets or to regain imaginary growth by changing the calculation formulas. for example, reforms to the methods of calculating gdp imposed in 2014 included prostitution and other illegal activities, and thus inflated growth by about 0.5%. at present, the calculation of cpi does not take into account such activities but it will therefore be necessary to monitor the proposed delegated acts. that is why i have decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr roberto gualtieri, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on consumer price indices and repealing regulation (ec) no 2494/95. the aim is to replace a 1995 regulation on the method of calculating consumer price indices. these allow inflation to be measured in the same way in all the countries of the european union. this new regulation takes account of statistical developments and technical improvements in data collection. i therefore approve this new regulation which will make it possible to better assess the results of the monetary policy of the euro area. this regulation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which adapts and creates a common framework for different price indices (consumer, occupied housing and real estate) in the light of statistical, technological and legislative developments. this will make it possible to better calculate inflation in the different member states of the union and to estimate more precisely the convergence of price stability within the union, which are key figures for the policies pursued by the european commission and the european central bank.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives the commission too much power, particularly to include prostitution and drug trafficking in the calculation of the price index.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on consumer price indices. the aim of this report is to amend the regulation on consumer price indices. it aims to establish a common framework at three levels - european, national and subnational - for the development, production and dissemination of several price indices: the hicp (harmonised consumer price index), the hicp-tc (harmonised consumer price index at constant tax rates), the lop (price index of owner-occupied dwellings) and the ipi (property price index). this major change could not only allow for better account to be taken of price variations across member states but also create a policy tool capable of better controlling them, by imposing targets on them or falsifying the figures. i do not want to allow the european commission to control us more and more.
in writing. - i voted against it. the aim of this report is to amend the regulation on consumer price indices. the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp) is an index of consumer prices (cpi) calculated for each of the eu countries. it allows the level of inflation to be calculated in the most comparable way for all countries and is used by the european central bank as an indicator of price stability and as a means of checking compliance with the convergence criterion on inflation. we oppose this because these indices can also be used as political tools to better control the member states by imposing targets on them or to regain imaginary growth by changing the calculation formulas.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised way across all member states for international comparison. the current regulation dates from 1995. the commission proposes to revise it to take account of the innovations introduced by the lisbon treaty, which gives it the right to adopt measures (implementing acts) or legislative measures that may amend non-essential parts of a regulation (delegated acts). the new regulation will allow the commission to decide freely whether to include narcotics, gambling or prostitution in the calculation of the index, whereas they are currently excluded. i am opposed to this new takeover by the commission, whose absurd ideology and methodological fanaticism i know. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp) is an index which allows the level of inflation to be calculated in the most comparable way for all countries. it is used by the european central bank as an indicator of price stability and as a means of checking compliance with the inflation convergence criterion. the amendments introduced would establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of the harmonised index of consumer prices, the harmonised index of consumer prices at constant tax rate (hicp-tc), the owner-occupied housing price index (lop), and the property price index (hipi) at union, national and sub-national level. caution should be exercised, as these indices can then be used as policy tools to better control member states by imposing targets or to regain imaginary growth by changing the calculation formulae. that is why we must vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to improve the calculation of the hicp but considerably increases the commission's powers for delegated acts. in addition, these technical changes could enable the commission to define the criteria for the economic performance of the member states and to increase its control over policies which are the responsibility of national parliaments and the european people. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the consumer price index is an economic indicator that measures the price movement of a basket of goods and services from one year to the next. this indicator therefore allows an estimate of price increases as well as inflation. the new regulation will repeal the 1995 regulation and will allow for a more accurate calculation of the harmonised consumer price indices and the house price indices, as it takes account of all statistical, technological and legislative developments since 1995.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. however, i would like to express my support for the adoption of the harmonised consumer price indices replacing the 1995 regulation. the adoption of this measure strengthens the ecb's role and will, inter alia, allow the identification of housing bubbles at an early stage through the owner-occupied housing price index.
in writing. ‒ this report is a proposal to amend the regulation on consumer price indices. the amendments introduced would establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp), the harmonised index of consumer prices at constant tax rate (hicp-tc), the owner-occupied housing price index (lop), and the property price index (hipi) at union, national and sub-national level. it is a mainly technical amendment to the regulation to take better account of price variations across member states. however, caution is needed as these indices can be used as policy tools to better control member states by imposing targets, or to regain imaginary growth by changing the calculation formulas. for example, reforms to the methods of calculating gdp imposed in 2014 included prostitution and other illegal activities, and thus inflated growth by about 0.5%. the amendments adopted give far too much power to the commission, so i prefer to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to accompany the adaptation of the 1995 regulation on consumer price indices to statistical developments, notably the creation of a european statistical system, technological developments in data collection, and legislative developments linked to the new comitology procedures.
in writing. ‒ the consumer price index is a means of measuring price developments and in particular of calculating the increase in prices from one year to another. i supported this text on the new consumer price indices regulation which will repeal the 1995 regulation. it will thus be adapted to the statistical, technological and legislative developments of recent years. parliament also asked for certain definitions to be added and clarified and for the categories of sub-indices whose production is not required by the member states to be determined. the ecb's role in the production of indices is also strengthened.
in writing. ‒ this report is a proposal to amend the regulation on consumer price indices. this price index allows the level of inflation to be calculated in the most comparable way for all countries and is used by the european central bank as an indicator of price stability and as a means of checking compliance with the inflation convergence criterion. the amendments introduced would establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of the harmonised index of consumer prices (hicp), the harmonised index of consumer prices at constant tax rate (hicp-tc), the owner-occupied housing price index (lop), and the property price index (hipi) at union, national and sub-national level. however, caution is needed as these indices can be used as policy tools to better control member states by imposing targets, or to regain imaginary growth by changing the calculation formulas. one of the two proposed packages of amendments was adopted, giving far too much power to the european commission. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of fighting fraud, the european union is building new superstructures and confiscating even more sovereignty from the member states. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ as europe embarks on a process of fiscal consolidation and tightening, it is essential to use all available resources to boost investment and growth in the union. i voted for this report because fraud now costs the eu 120 billion a year, compared to its annual budget of 150 billion. it is important to fight fraud and to ensure that the union budget is properly used for projects that contribute to growth and jobs. in addition, all necessary measures must be taken to prevent or put an end to fraudulent activities in the field of politics. illegal and illicit trade affects the collection of customs duties by member states and therefore directly affects the union budget.
in writing. ‒ this report uses fraud and other 'irregularities' in eu accounts as a pretext for calling for greater control over member states. so, under the guise of fighting fraud, it proposes to create new superstructures, to strengthen the powers of the commission or its substitutes: all these are further steps towards diluting the sovereignty of our nations. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report contains recommendations on the fight against fraud which should be addressed by the national authorities, the council and the commission. it shall take note of irregularities or fraud reported in the accounts of the union, whether in respect of revenue or expenditure. the commission is also proposing to establish a european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. once again the dilution of the sovereignty of the nations is the main issue. the report regrets the fall in vat or customs duty revenue, but welcomes the existing trade agreements and calls for a strengthening of the single market, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ this report presents recommendations on the fight against fraud to which the national authorities, the council and the commission should pay attention. this report is a pretext for imposing more control on the member states by creating new superstructures, strengthening the powers of the commission, which would lead to a further step towards diluting the sovereignty of nations. it also called for a strengthening of the single market. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report makes recommendations to combat fraud, in particular in the management of the rural development fund and in the award of public contracts. the rapporteur proposes that the procedures be made more transparent, the financial rules be simplified and local authorities be better trained to put an end to these irregularities. it also wants to encourage greater transparency, in particular through the more regular publication of compliance audits. however, under the guise of fighting fraud, this report advocates the creation of new structures, which are costly for the taxpayer, and the strengthening of control by the member states, thus undermining our national sovereignty. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report responds to the annual reports of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) of july 2015 and the european commission of september 2015 on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud in 2014. in this report, we call for greater transparency and governance of the european investment bank (eib), advocating for greater parliamentary scrutiny. we also recommend improving the detection of irregularities and developing a strategy for optimising resources to avoid cases of fraud. these objectives cannot be achieved without a stronger commitment from the member states. i have voted in favour of this report because i believe that fraud harms the financial interests of the union.
in writing. the 2014 fraud report recalls that member states must take the same action, whether to combat fraud affecting the union's financial interests or to combat fraud affecting their own financial interests. i voted in favour of this text because i think it is important to follow the recommendations of olaf and to ensure better coordination between olaf, the customs authorities and the market surveillance authorities. better coordination will help to solve the growing problems of international organised crime, such as smuggling, illegal and illicit trade, which are a drain on the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the javor report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. the text calls on the member states to take the same measures to combat fraud affecting the union's financial interests as those taken at national level. the vote will call for greater parliamentary control and for more transparency, particularly in the tobacco agreements.
in writing. ‒ in the interest of better fighting fraud, this report seeks to strengthen the powers of the commission or its substitutes, and thus undermines the sovereignty of nations. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it even requires national courts to publish a report on the use of eu funds. finally, it is alarmed at a fall in vat or customs revenue (traditional own resources) while welcoming the existing trade agreements and calling for a strengthening of the single market. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it seeks to frame the sovereignty of states in the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted against mr javor's report on the protection of the european union's financial interests. firstly, because i believe that there are no financial interests of the european union, only the financial interests of the european states and taxpayers. the budget of the brussels monster is fed by a direct budgetary contribution from the member states - the so-called gni resource - a part of the vat they collect and the constantly decreasing customs duties collected at europe's borders. in the event of fraud, it is the budgets of the states that are directly affected and harmed. secondly, because this notion of eu financial interests serves political purposes: to strengthen the powers of olaf, the european anti-fraud office, the commission's pseudopod, and to push for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. but the internal dysfunctions of olaf have been worrying this parliament for years, casting doubt on its methods and thus undermining its legitimacy. its managing director, mr kessler, is even under the spotlight of the belgian judiciary for the allegedly murky role he played in the dalli case. his diplomatic immunity would even have been lifted. there's no reason to trust him.
in writing. this report uses fraud and irregularities in the union's accounts as a pretext for greater control over the member states. under the guise of fighting fraud, it proposes to create new superstructures and to strengthen the powers of the commission or its substitutes - all further steps towards diluting the sovereignty of nations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the jávor report on the 2014 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests, a subject which i have followed closely as rapporteur for my political group in the committee on regional development. in 2014, the amount of fraud against eu funds was estimated at €538 million in the eu. it is unacceptable that european taxpayers' money is being misappropriated through fraud and corruption, when projects that generate growth and jobs need it more than ever. the eu and the member states must make sure that every euro is better spent, by firmly fighting irregularities in public procurement but also by adapting to new forms of fraud, including transnational fraud. i am also pleased that the necessary distinction between fraud and mere errors, which i defended in the regi opinion, is included in the final report. this distinction is essential and the simplification of procedures in regional policy advocated by the epp group will reduce the error rate by reducing confusion for project promoters.
in writing. ‒ efficient, transparent and rational management of european funds is a prerequisite for european citizens' confidence in their institutions. it is therefore particularly important to avoid waste and fraudulent activities and to strengthen cooperation between the member states, the european commission and the various european authorities or agencies responsible for these controls. this report particularly encourages the european commission to be very vigilant about fraud and also encourages it to report biannually on the fight against corruption. i am of course in agreement with these proposals and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it uses the fraud found in the eu accounts as a pretext to strengthen the commission's powers of control over the member states. the amendments tabled by the enf group to combat this interference were rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union was drawn up in the context of the fight against fraud and corruption. it highlights irregularities and fraud reported in the union's accounts, such as relations with lobbies and ngos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the report, however, is covered by such fine notions as ethics, equality and respect for european citizens, and it is designed to restrict the sovereignty of the member states and to strengthen the powers of the commission. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report takes advantage of the fact that fraud and irregularities have been found in the union's accounts to bring about greater control over the member states. it uses the fight against fraud as a reason for creating new superstructures and for strengthening the commission's powers. the report also expresses concern at the fall in vat and customs revenue, while welcoming the existing trade agreements and calling for a stronger single market! it is, after all, just one more step towards the total dissolution of state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ member states and the commission share responsibility for implementing about 80% of the union budget and member states are mainly responsible for collecting own resources, in particular in the form of vat and customs duties. but corruption, which affects all member states, costs the union's economy about 120 billion euros a year. the irregularities reported concern a total amount of approximately eur 3,24 billion for 2014, with an overall financial impact 36% higher than in 2013. the report denounces this fact. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the report also encourages the commission to 'develop a mechanism that would encourage companies to pay the normal tax instead of avoiding tax'. finally, it proposes the establishment of a system for protecting whistleblowers and improving access to information and transparency. the report contains real progress, but it ignores the fact that the free movement of capital, which the union is promoting, is the main factor contributing to the development of fraud. i shall vote for this text.
in writing. ‒ with great noise and fuss, a financial report arrives in parliament. all were afraid of him, and the excuse followed him. the european governance, under the banner of anti-fraud, is ready to create new superstructures and to take a little more of the sovereignty of the member nations that stand in its way. if there is a limit to bad faith, it is not within the confines of the european senate. the report welcomes trade agreements and calls for a strengthening of the single market, but cannot at the same time lament the fall in customs revenue. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report uses the pretext of fighting fraud and irregularities in the union's accounts to impose more controls on member states. under the guise of fighting fraud, it proposes to create new superstructures and to strengthen the powers of the commission or its substitutes - all further steps in the dilution of the sovereignty of the nations. so he calls for a vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report uses fraud and irregularities in the union's accounts as a pretext to impose more control on member states. under the guise of fighting fraud, it proposes to create new superstructures and to strengthen the powers of the commission or its substitutes - all further steps towards diluting the sovereignty of the nations. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which strengthens the measures to combat tax fraud in all the member states of the european union. i have in particular supported the provisions calling for greater parliamentary scrutiny and transparency for tobacco agreements between the european commission and the tobacco industries, which i am opposed to. the commission will have to publish rapidly an evaluation of these agreements and an analysis of their impact on the implementation of the framework convention on tobacco control.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, which calls in particular on the member states to give the fight against fraud affecting the eu's financial interests the same importance as the fight against fraud affecting their own financial interests. moreover, the report rightly stresses the need for more governance and transparency in the ecb's activities.
in writing. ‒ this report uses fraud and irregularities in the union's accounts as a pretext for greater control over the member states. under the guise of fighting fraud, it proposes to create new superstructures and to strengthen the powers of the commission or its substitutes - all further steps towards diluting the sovereignty of the nations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. since these positions are contrary to those which i support and which i was elected to defend, i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i support the 2014 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud, particularly as it calls on member states to take measures identical to those taken at national level to combat fraud affecting the union's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the sound management of public expenditure and revenue in the european union is essential to citizens' confidence. the protection of the eu's financial interests must therefore be at the heart of its policy objectives. the report by benedek jávor highlights the central role of the member states and the commission in the collection and implementation of the union budget and proposes solutions to combat fraud. parliament called for improved reporting to harmonise the still too different approaches between member states, the development of reliable indicators of the level of corruption and the adoption of legislation protecting whistleblowers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. finally, the report calls for better governance of public procurement, in particular by calling on member states to swiftly transpose directive 2014/24 on public procurement. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the investment programme of the european investment bank (eib), which supports the union's policy objectives. the text stresses the importance of strengthening the governance, transparency and control framework of the european investment bank and also calls for more extensive parliamentary control. the fight against fraud must remain a priority for the european union and this requires closer work with the member states to collect more accurate data. it is also important that member states take the same measures to combat fraud affecting the financial interests of the union as they take to combat fraud affecting their own financial interests. in this respect, the union and the member states should follow the recommendations made by olaf.
in writing. ‒ the report uses fraud and irregularities in the eu accounts as a pretext to impose more control on the member states. under the guise of fighting fraud, it proposes to create new superstructures and to strengthen the powers of the commission or its substitutes - further steps towards diluting sovereignty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the fight against fraud in the european union in 2014. vat fraud, irregular payments under the cap, abusive public procurement, smuggling and counterfeiting, etc. the cost of these irregularities and fraud is estimated at €120 billion per year, an increase of 36% compared to 2013. however, it is probably the part of the report which is most interesting, namely the part dealing with the problems of the functioning of the union which can lead to fraud. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission also adopted amendments to increase transparency in the financing of major infrastructure projects, including the lyon-turin link. i voted yes.
in writing. the femm commission is never short of absurd ideas which would be laughable if they were not the consequence of this deadly ideology which consists in abolishing all borders: civilizational, cultural, religious, national, and now sexual. to put it simply, this ideology leads to the indifference of everything and everyone, in the name of course of the "right to be different". in this case, this report, for which equality between women and men goes far beyond equality before the law or equality in pay. the idea behind the report is to give the femm committee a say in all the other committees through a permanent rapporteur who is responsible for ensuring that the texts voted on are in line with gender ideology. it must take into account "equally" (sic!) the benefits for women, men, lgtbiq and "all other gender identities"! in short, a sort of lgbtiq commissioner, charged with looking after the interests of the community. this report is totally insane and shows how harmful this institution, the european parliament, is. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report, the result of a long-term work by my colleague angelika milnar, calls for the integration of the gender dimension into the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of eu policies, with the aim of promoting equality between women and men. i voted in favour of this resolution because mainstreaming gender equality policies is a principle enshrined in the treaties. the european institutions must set the best example in terms of gender equality.
in writing. - i voted against this text, which is based on the crazy gender ideology. i have, however, supported the alternative motion for a resolution which recalls that gender equality should be understood only as equality between men and women, and not as the official recognition of other types of gender. it should be noted that this alternative text could only be tabled with the support of 12 members of my group, europe of nations and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with 'gender ideology'. i am convinced that if we ask ten people to define this concept, we will not have a single common definition. in fact, there is none, and that is the whole problem with this report. what are we talking about? equality between men and women? to erase the differences between these two categories? the establishment of quotas? inclusion of specific rights for lgbt people? from the establishment of training policies for the recalcitrant to the principle of equality? in fact, all these issues are found in this all-encompassing report which does not even have the merit of giving a clear vision of what needs or should be done in the field of gender equality. we believe that this fight is essential and that it must be fought with courage and determination. unfortunately, the feminist and lgbt hardliners, whose ideologies are destroying all our existing social, educational and family models, are not advancing the cause of women, quite the opposite. let's not get the wrong fight. it is the equality between men and women that we want, not the forced disappearance of the sexes.
in writing. ‒ the dimension of 'gender' does not only imply sexual orientations which should remain in the private sphere. a person's identity is not determined by their sexual orientation. setting policy based on the sexual behaviour of individuals or promoting rights based on particular sexual behaviour is the basis of communitarianism, which i oppose. gender equality should be understood only as equality between men and women, not as the formal recognition of other types of gender. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the integration of the gender dimension in the work of parliament. this gender dimension is often centred on sexual orientation; but we do not define policy by the sexual behaviour of individuals.
in writing. ‒ this indigestible report emphasises, in all its proposals, the gender dimension, focusing solely on the sexual orientation of individuals. the rapporteur therefore proposes to incorporate this gender dimension into all the work of the european institutions and to set up statistics on the respect of gender equality. the text even provides for the creation of a gender mainstreaming network in the european parliament and the commission with the appointment of a permanent rapporteur on the gender dimension. it is absolutely outrageous to define policy on the basis of the sexual behaviour of individuals. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of women's day on 8 march 2016, the european parliament wanted to send a strong message in favour of equality between men and women by publishing a report on the mainstreaming of the gender dimension in the work of the european parliament. this report gives an overview of the state of play of gender mainstreaming in parliament and in eu policies. equality between men and women must become a reality within the european union and also outside its borders. our institution must set an example for the rest of the european union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report looks at the integration of the principle of gender equality in the work of the european parliament. he advocated a balance in parliament's staff, particularly in the positions of responsibility. i regret, however, that the rapporteur, motivated more by ideological considerations, has proposed the introduction of complex and costly internal procedures, the effectiveness of which is considered to be questionable. with my colleagues from the epp group, we tabled a number of amendments aimed at restoring a balance between support for the integration of women and maintaining the quality of parliamentary work. i support the purpose of this report and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. this own-initiative report calls for greater equality between men and women in the european parliament, particularly in its internal organisation. i naturally supported him, since parity was one of my long-standing political struggles. this text defines the various tools which must be used to ensure that women are better represented within the institution. the report also calls for a system of quotas for more women in management posts.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to decline gender ideology at all levels of the european institutions, putting a de facto end to the traditional distinction between men and women. gender is based on personal considerations, including sexual ones, which should be kept private. they cannot in any way determine social relations. i reject the idea that our fundamental principles should be exploited for the benefit of a dangerous ideology and i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because i am totally opposed to gender theory.
in writing. - another report from the femm commission that borders on delusion. because, as this committee is accustomed to, the notion of equality between women and men goes far beyond legitimate equality of opportunity or pay. in fact, the aim of this report is to give the femm committee, which is not very useful, an illegitimate right of review in all areas, by imposing a reading that is systematically in line with the ideology of "gender" and that must take into account "in equal shares" (sic!) the benefits for women, men, lgtbiq and "all other gender identities"! this is a good sign for legislation on the protection of longterm investors, for example. while most of the time the analysis of the respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of european laws is sloppy, while impact studies are more incantation than analysis and real evaluations of the effectiveness of european policies are lacking or are censored, ms mlinar, and the parliament with her, focus on ineptitudes. i voted against this report.
in writing. the implementation of the 2016-2019 strategy for gender is presented in this text as crucial for the protection of human rights, for economic growth and for the defence of democracy. this dimension of "gender" is focused only on sexual orientation. this is a matter which must remain strictly private and not be the subject of any special treatment. the identity of human beings is not determined by their sexual practices. even less is a policy defined by the sexual behaviour of individuals. promoting rights based on particular sexual behaviour is the starting point of communitarianism which the front national rejects. i naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report by my colleague angelika mlinar on the integration of the gender dimension in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is a key issue and much needs to be done to combat the unacceptable inequalities that still exist today. however, the introduction of the gender perspective in all parliament's documents does not seem to me to be adequate to achieve equality between men and women. i support the report's objectives but the measures it recommends do not seem to me to be the best way to achieve them.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the integration of gender perspectives into the work of the european parliament, including the work of parliamentary committees, the selection of parliament's staff and the distribution of posts of officials within the institution. voted on the day of women's rights day, it was important to reaffirm the equality of rights of women in our parliament. however, while the report contains good things, others are much less so. moreover, as this report is not a legislative report and is one of the many texts that the european parliament too often collects on the gender dimension, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is an anthem to gender theory. the amendment no 4, which was proposed by several members, including those from the fn, to replace gender equality with equality between men and women, was unfortunately rejected. the report also goes further into the ridiculous by specifying that the gender dimension must include lgbtiq people (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, intersexual, and last year of trendy sexual orientations "queers"...).
in writing. ‒ the report is part of the 2016-2019 strategy for gender. it proposes, in particular, to introduce the notion of 'gender' in all the work of the european institutions and at all levels. to do this, a major communication and awareness campaign would be conducted to train mps, political advisers... in the practice of a neutral language, respectful of all genders. the concept of 'gender' includes 'men, women and all other genders in general'. not only do i believe that gender equality is about equality between men and women, but also that people's sexual orientations are private matters and should not be discussed in the public sphere. i would also like to remind you that politicians must defend the integrity of the human person, which is not limited to sexual practices. it is therefore absurd to try to impose a single way of thinking through gender, which betrays human dignity and respect for privacy. the text is part of the commission's drive to promote a community approach to these issues, supported by the lgbt lobbies. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the text. this report aims to include the gender dimension in all the work of the european institutions, at all levels, in all internal and external policies. the report also calls for the establishment of a monitoring of the work of parliamentary committees through a 'responsible person' who will ensure that this report is properly implemented. this "gender" dimension is focused only on sexual orientation, an area which should remain in the private sphere and should not be the subject of special treatment: the identity of human beings is not limited to their sexual practices!
in writing. ‒ in the european parliament, no less than four bodies are responsible for promoting gender equality both on the ground and within the institution. the report makes a number of concrete proposals, including to achieve 40% of women in key managerial staff by 2020. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the text therefore calls on the political parties to take responsibility, for example by proposing equal partnerships at the head of their political groups or parliamentary committees. my gue/ngl group is particularly exemplary in this respect, being the only group with more women than men in the elected body. i vote for the conservatives' shielding against this text.
in writing. ‒ the definition of gender in the text is based on a fanatical egalitarianism. i consider that giving this meaning to the word gender is arbitrary and contributes to distorting the debate. i think it is a well-constructed trojan horse that enters the debate and will come to establish presuppositions that will distort the texts. isn't it said that what is private, namely sexual practices, should remain private? and i don't know that these practices affect a person's identity in any way. i therefore think it is illegitimate to base policy on such a basis. we are in favour of national unity, and these policies would pave the way for communitarianism. i therefore voted against the s&d motion for a resolution. there was an alternative text that gives the word gender the common definition. it was a way of countering the s&d's shocking text. i therefore voted in favour of the alternative text.
in writing. ‒ this text is a new concession to the fashionable theme of "gender", in order to oblige the european parliament to integrate this new religion into its practices, with the sole purpose of doing good thanks to the lgbt lobbies. the mere mention of this theory is sufficient to reject in principle the obligations which one wishes to impose on it. it is not clear how parliament should be able to adjust its work to the sexual practices of one or the other or to the way in which one views one's own sexuality. promoting rights based on particular sexual behaviour is the starting point of communitarianism which the national front rejects.
in writing. ‒ this gender dimension is focused on sexual orientation, which should remain a private matter. policies are not defined by the sexual behaviour of individuals, which risks categorising individuals and undermining equality. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to better integrate the gender dimension into the work of the european parliament. the text, which was put on the agenda for women's day, is a reminder that in many areas equality between men and women is far from perfect. i am in favour of all initiatives which will help to strengthen the position of women.
in writing. ‒ this report claims to advocate equality between men and women but only communitizes and classifies individuals according to their sex or gender. we cannot achieve equality by spending time designating so-called communities to defend. it's obvious. i also believe that public institutions should interfere as little as possible in the private sphere of individuals. i therefore vote against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the issue of the gender dimension, which is regularly raised in the european parliament's work. it is important to remember that this issue must not only be dealt with in parliament but also in the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. working for gender equality is a daily struggle, in all places and in all fields. but above all, measures must be adopted and means must be used at the most appropriate levels, namely the national level.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which takes stock of and examines the perspectives on the integration of gender equality into the different policies of the european union, through the work of the european parliament's parliamentary committees. the text also gives an update on the representation of women in parliament's teams. the report also calls for the commission to take account of the gender dimension in the work of all parliamentary committees and to continue its work.
in writing. ‒ the gender dimension is focused only on sexual orientation. this is a matter which must remain strictly private and not be the subject of any special treatment. human identity is not determined by sexual practices. even less is a policy defined by the sexual behaviour of individuals. promoting rights based on particular sexual behaviour is the starting point of communitarianism which the front national rejects. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of two reports voted on symbolically on the occasion of 8 march, international women's day. even though equality between women and men is recognised by the eu as a fundamental right, there is still much to be done even in the european parliament to really guarantee this right. the report stresses the need to mainstream a gender perspective in all policies, while also implementing 'gender tools' and specific measures to eliminate, prevent or compensate for gender inequalities. the report calls for more cooperation between parliamentary committees and calls for the establishment of a high-level group to propose an action plan to increase women's representation to 40% by 2020, including in senior positions. it also called on the commission to carry out gender impact studies on new legislative or policy proposals to ensure that the eu is genuinely working towards equality between women and men. i am glad that all the amendments tabled by my group with the greens and the socialists to improve the text have been adopted. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ ms honeyball's report on the 'situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu' is a new call for the mass immigration of 'refugees' who are in reality economic immigrants in their vast majority. the woman is definitely not mentioned. this is a great achievement for a report voted on women's day! the report also states that there can be no smugglers, no trafficking in human beings, no abuse if immigration is completely legal and unchecked - which is to say that there would be no thieves if theft was allowed! the report also includes a number of lgbti rights. of course, the report does not attempt to understand why only 15% of migrants arriving in europe in 2015 are women. as for the european women who were assaulted by immigrants in the early years, there is not a single mention of this in the text. the rapporteur also fails to mention that as many as 10 000 migrant miners have passed out in the wild. i therefore naturally voted against this very strongly ideologised report.
in writing. ‒ what a mad catalogue of proposals that will only worsen the migratory tsunami that is overwhelming our old continent... i voted against this text, of course, because all its proposals are designed to make it easier for 'migrants' to enter and stay in europe, by involving excessive expenditure. the eu is certainly telling us every day that "hell is paved with good intentions"...
in writing. ‒ all the points proposed in this report are only aimed at aggravating the migrant crisis by giving them even more opportunities to return to europe. this would entail enormous additional costs. the report makes no mention of the christians, the shiites, the yazidis and the kurds who suffer a great deal of violence, either in their countries of origin or in the refugee centres. the report makes no distinction between war refugees and economic refugees. the report also does not mention the risks of insecurity or terrorism associated with the reception of migrants. all these points lead me to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the european union calls for legal, material and financial facilities for women, children and lgbti refugees and asylum seekers, as they are victims of violence in their countries of origin but also in europe. these provisions will exacerbate the migrant crisis by facilitating their entry and stay in europe and by incurring excessive costs. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ based on the fact that women, children and the lgbti refugee community are victims of violence and discrimination in their countries of origin, this report calls for legal facilitation in their favour, particularly with regard to asylum applications. the rapporteur wants to facilitate the integration of these illegal migrants by offering them language courses and childcare services, but also by guaranteeing them quality care. it is also recommended that accommodation facilities be provided which are specifically designed or adapted for them. at a time when the peoples of europe are faced with mass unemployment, precariousness and an unprecedented increase in social inequalities, it is absolutely scandalous to welcome and facilitate the arrival of these illegal migrants, the vast majority of whom are not fleeing war. it is essential to put an end to the schengen area, to stop the dissemination of illegal migrants in the member states and to block the reprogramming of the structural funds to finance reception infrastructure. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a report on women refugees and asylum seekers in the union on the occasion of women's day on 8 march 2016. it was important for the european parliament to send a strong message of support to migrant women and girls fleeing their countries in appalling conditions. these women are too often the victims of violence during their crossing. it's important to ensure their safety. we must adapt the refugee reception centres to the specific needs of women and, in this context, ensure that the sanitary conditions in these camps are improved. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the situation of refugee women and girls, who face various forms of gender-based violence during their journey. as women are more vulnerable than men on the migration route, i am in favour of an in-depth analysis of the specific needs of women refugees or asylum seekers. i regret, however, that more ideological than political considerations have led the rapporteur to go beyond the scope of the report by adding parts concerning asylum procedures and detention. in order to bring the attention back to the situation of refugees, we tabled an alternative resolution to present the recommendations of the epp group. however, considering the exceptional nature of the migration phenomenon in europe and the vulnerability of refugee women, i decided to support this report which makes proposals to improve access to health and support services specific to women.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the european union. they are very often victims of gender-based violence and persecution during their journey to a host country. despite many paragraphs which i rejected because they went too far in their recommendations - which is not the responsibility of the committee on women's rights but of the committee on civil liberties to which i belong - i could not reject such a text. by voting for this text, we wanted the european parliament to send a signal that it is mobilized and attentive to the situation of women in the current migration problems.
in writing. ‒ according to the un high commissioner for refugees, 55% of the refugees arriving in greece since the beginning of 2016 are children and women, 20% of whom are alone with their children, making them vulnerable during their journey. this situation must be taken into account. the legislation on refugees and asylum seekers in the eu therefore proposes measures to take this into account. ensure that bedrooms, toilets and showers are not mixed; employing female translators and counsellors, creating appropriate facilities for mothers arriving with their children: all these measures will improve the reception of refugees in the eu.
in writing. ‒ on 8 march, international women's day, the european parliament adopted a highly symbolic resolution, despite opposition from some on the right and the far right, on gender mainstreaming in asylum policies and procedures. with this vote, we want to draw attention to the particular plight of women and girls in exile. they are vulnerable targets, particularly in the face of gender-based violence and sexual abuse, female genital mutilation and the use of rape as a weapon of war, which many of them have experienced. moreover, like unaccompanied miners, they are at risk of falling into the hands of criminal networks and becoming victims of human trafficking. a whole range of specific measures should be put in place: training of staff, separate accommodation arrangements, access to appropriate care, an end to the detention of minors, pregnant women, victims of rape, etc.
in writing. ‒ while the treaty on the functioning of the european union already requires the absence of internal border controls, this report risks aggravating the migrant crisis. the result is that it makes it easier for them to enter and stay in europe, while at the same time entailing excessive expenditure. the weakness of this report is that it does not distinguish between the reasons for the arrival of migrants, which is essential, especially in the context of asylum policy. i think that the question of migrants must be dealt with at its source, and i therefore voted against this report, which deals only with the consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is part of a logic of total permissiveness of migration flows and fails to mention the persecution of christian populations.
in writing. ‒ mrs honeyball's report on the 'situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu' is less concerned with women than it is with calling for the mass immigration of those who are called refugees when the majority of them are economic migrants. it was necessary to think about it: there can be no more smugglers, human trafficking and abuse if immigration is totally legal and unchecked! of course, the mention of women also serves as a pretext to talk about alleged lgbti groups, who have lost a q in the process. ms. honeyball better ask why only 15% of migrants arriving in europe in 2015 are women and what this reveals, or why eastern christians, the main victims of ongoing conflicts, are so underrepresented. as much as mrs honeyball is moved by the plight of women and children, she does not honour with her compassion the european women who are massively attacked by groups of migrants in germany and sweden. nor does it care about the fate of the 10,000 miners who have been lost to us, while it refuses to allow miners to be placed in detention centres. in short, i voted against this partial, one-sided and ideological report.
in writing. ‒ gender is one of the issues that is often forgotten or even ignored when it comes to migration, but it is an important one to consider. women currently account for around one third of asylum applications in the european union and are often the victims of discrimination and various forms of sexual or gender-based violence in their countries of origin, transit and destination. refugees and asylum seekers are also exposed to the risk of forced and early marriage and even prostitution and are still very often forced to accept undeclared jobs in order to remain in the destination countries. i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the highly vulnerable situation of these refugees and asylum seekers and has the merit of calling on the states and the european commission. the measures proposed in the report are a first step towards better protection of the fundamental rights of refugees and asylum seekers in the member states of the european union.
in writing. in the face of violence, rape, discrimination, trafficking in human beings or genital mutilation to which his wives may have been subjected during their journey to europe, a specific approach is needed to deal with their reception and subsequent integration into europe. this approach involves training of staff, including modules on sexual violence, provision of separate rooms and toilets for women and men, access to healthcare tailored to women's needs, including access to contraception and abortion, and information for women on their right to apply for asylum separately from their husbands. another important factor to be taken into account is the question of the integration of these women, their access to the labour market and family reunification. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr honeyball. the honour of europe also depends on mutual respect, gender equality and solidarity.
in writing. ‒ we are well aware of the danger faced by the migrants who are arriving by the thousands every day at europe's gates. however, we are less aware of the vulnerability of women and children who are among this population and who suffer sometimes sexual violence and intolerable abuse. the collective mismanagement of the migration crisis has been a boon for smugglers who use migrants as a financial windfall. we have a moral responsibility towards these women and children, especially in refugee reception centres. on the other hand, as regards asylum procedures, i consider that, while special precautions should be taken for the most vulnerable persons, they should remain subject, like any other applicant, to the procedures in force. i believe that the best way to protect these women and children is above all to fight resolutely and decisively against all those who exploit poverty, who rob these people of their property and deprive them of their dignity.
in writing. the resolution takes as its starting point the fact that women, children and lgbti refugees and asylum seekers are often victims of violence, both in their countries of origin and in europe, and calls for legal, material and financial facilities for them. all the provisions of the text are ultimately aimed at further exacerbating the migrant crisis by facilitating their entry and stay in europe, and by causing excessive expenditure. the report does not mention the persecution of christians, who are exposed to violence, either in their countries of origin or in asylum seekers' centres (the same applies to shiites, yazidis and kurds). the report does not distinguish between refugees fleeing war and economic refugees and does not address the danger of some migrants, either from terrorism or from common law violence. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report by my colleague mary honeyball on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the european union. i support the improvement of the living conditions of refugee women, whose situation is very problematic and who are often very vulnerable. but the report presented showed gaps and inadequacies, and the measures recommended were impossible to implement as such. i regret that the alternative resolution proposed by my political group, the epp, which was realistic, was not accepted.
in writing. ‒ as with the milnar report, there are positive elements and much more critical things in this report. parliament should reduce the number of repetitive reports which have no legislative significance, especially on important and serious subjects such as the situation of refugee women. the requirements proposed in the text go far beyond the powers of the femm committee which is proposing this report and very largely infringe the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore abstained on this report while remaining firmly committed to the protection, promotion and equality of women's rights.
in writing. ‒ on the protection of women and children who are refugees on european soil, we, the epp group, did not want to vote in favour of the honeyball report, which is too broad, goes beyond the remit of the committee on women's rights, and proposes a comprehensive vision of asylum, immigration and family reunification which we cannot endorse. that is why we tabled and voted an alternative motion for a resolution focusing on concrete, realistic, reasonable and responsible proposals, inspired by real demands, to improve the situation of women asylum seekers and refugees, the children accompanying them, and isolated minors. it considered that women should be able to benefit from specific assistance in the asylum application procedure, medical assistance for pregnant women and accommodation in refugee reception centres which respects women's right to privacy. the fight against trafficking and sexual abuse is also a priority for us. we call on the member states and the eu institutions to take strong measures to combat trafficking in human beings and to sign the istanbul convention on the subject.
in writing. on international women's rights day, parliament adopted a series of recommendations to help refugee women. these include: the demand to create safe channels of migration, especially for asylum seekers; the demand to take women's rights into account in the definition of a "safe" country (i.e. a country that is considered to be without risk in case of repatriation and therefore does not justify an asylum application); better information on the rights of migrant women; the end of detention of minors and pregnant women; improvement of reception conditions. i have of course supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, under the pretext of helping women asylum seekers, it will exacerbate the migrant crisis by facilitating their entry into europe. it also guarantees them rights (to housing, health, employment) that are often denied to european women.
in writing. ‒ the report takes stock of the violence suffered by women, children and lgbti refugees and asylum seekers, in their countries of origin and in europe. in order to overcome the problem, the text proposes, among other things, to create suitable reception and transit centres for these people, to facilitate their asylum applications, to promote their integration into the labour market... however, all these provisions only increase the arrival of migrants in europe, without the authorities making the necessary distinctions between war refugees and economic refugees. they also do not take into account the danger posed by certain migrants (terrorists or common criminals). furthermore, there is no mention of the persecution of christians in these war-torn countries. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is based on the simple fact that women, children and lgbti refugees and asylum seekers are often victims of violence, both in their countries of origin and in europe. it therefore calls for appropriate reception and transit centres, facilitation of asylum applications, guaranteed care, an end to all detention of minors, provision of childcare services during selection and asylum interviews, facilitation of the integration of refugees into the labour market, provision of training and language courses and encouragement of member states to use the structural and investment funds. the report completely fails to distinguish between refugees fleeing war and economic refugees, it does not even address the dangers of certain migrants (and yet the events in cologne have proved that these concerns are legitimate), it does not mention the persecution of christians, although they are exposed to violence... these measures, adopted by well-meaning members, will further exacerbate the migrant crisis, as they will make it easier for migrants to enter and stay in europe, leading to excessive expenditure.
in writing. ‒ more and more women and children fleeing war and persecution in their own countries are arriving in europe, risking death at sea, falling into the hands of criminal networks, and facing discrimination and violence in reception centres once they arrive. without providing lasting solutions to the migration crisis, parliament is seeking to provide safe and dignified reception conditions or psychological support for women who are victims of sexual violence. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. he denounces the detention of children and pregnant women. the council also called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the mediterranean, which would be based on the conclusions of the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 june. i am voting for this very specific report on the needs of refugees, but it does not take account of the union's overall responsibility for these displacements.
in writing. ‒ the measures i have seen in this report are well-intentioned, and how could they not be, when we see the extent of this wave of migration? but it is clear that all these measures will make it easier for foreigners to enter and stay in europe, especially if the report does not distinguish between political refugees and economic migrants. the report also does not mention the risks posed by the influx of foreigners. this translates to a potential terrorist threat. it's not serious, we have to react. i am also sorry that the violence against christians in asylum centres and in their own countries is not mentioned. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution takes as its starting point the fact that women, children and lgbti refugees and asylum seekers are often victims of violence, both in their countries of origin and in europe, and calls for legal, material and financial facilities for them. all these measures are aimed at further exacerbating the migrant crisis by facilitating their entry and stay in europe, and by causing excessive costs. the report does not mention the persecution of christians, who are exposed to violence, either in their countries of origin or in asylum seekers' centres (the same applies to shiites, yazidis and kurds). it does not distinguish between refugees fleeing war and economic refugees and, of course, it does not mention the danger of certain migrants, whether in terms of terrorism or ordinary violence, as at the cologne station. once again, the host countries and the europeans are being blamed for not doing enough to welcome all the misery in the world. the vote is against it.
in writing. ‒ all these measures ultimately aim to further exacerbate the migrant crisis by facilitating their entry and stay in europe, and by resulting in excessive expenditure. moreover, the report makes no distinction between political refugees and economic migrants. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this text. if women and girls are more exposed to violence and persecution than men, the presence in this text of provisions which facilitate family reunification or limit the length of detention of persons who have not been granted refugee status at the time when the european union is experiencing a migration tragedy is irresponsible.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes an extremely generous policy for refugees. i am not insensitive to the situation of individuals who are victims of conflict, but i do not forget that the european union imposes a policy of austerity on the citizens of the member states which impoverishes and makes them insecure. such generosity towards migrants, while the situation in their countries of origin remains dramatic, can only increase the flows and attract even more people to the territory of a european union that can no longer even treat its own people with dignity. the citizens are hostile and the phenomenon can only continue to cause tensions and various disturbances. i therefore find this report particularly irresponsible and i shall therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained for this report for several reasons. the situation of refugees and asylum seekers is a complex issue, particularly at a time when migration flows to europe are increasing. as part of the examination of the report, my group decided to draft an alternative resolution emphasising the humanitarian aspect of the situation and recalling the need to adapt our reception structures and procedures to the specific needs of refugee and asylum seeker women, often accompanied by children. i would like to remind you that children and women are the first victims of the migration crisis as a whole, and in particular of human trafficking, which we must fight vigorously. but above all, since the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental, it is necessary that the member states take up their responsibilities in the field of the management of refugees and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ globally, in 2015, half of the displaced and refugees were women. in europe today, the figure is around one third. while these women flee war and the violence they specifically suffer in their home countries (forced marriages, rape, mutilation), they face the same difficulties on the road to europe and in refugee camps. the resolution by mary honeyball clearly calls for a gender dimension in asylum policy. it called for the specific needs of women to be taken into account: separate health facilities, specific housing, use of female staff, the establishment of appropriate psychological and legal counselling services, and staff training. beyond the situation in the camps, the eu must open safe and controlled access routes to ensure the safety of migrants and end the administrative detention of women and their children. finally, the resolution also speaks of the integration of these women into our societies, through access to the labour market and education. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. ‒ this year, the european parliament has dedicated international women's day to women refugees and asylum seekers. i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation of women refugees. it should be recalled that since the beginning of 2015, 900 000 people have reached european shores, of which 38% are women and children. as the resolution recalls, this means taking into account the needs of women in asylum procedures, such as the right to be individually registered, to be granted a legal status independent of that of their spouse, or to request an interpreter and to conduct an individual interview away from any third party. i supported this resolution which calls for an end to all child detention in the eu, but also for a response to an alarming health situation by setting up reception facilities and health services adapted to the specific needs of refugee women.
in writing. ‒ since the start of the current migration crisis, the european parliament has been working to address the humanitarian emergency and to provide international protection for the millions of people affected by war and oppression in the middle east. but there's still a lot of work to be done. and we need to improve our policies. experience shows that it is urgent to take account of the specific situation of women asylum seekers. the women, having fled war, find themselves in an unacceptable situation of insecurity when they arrive in europe. many are raped, others disappear, are recovered by networks and sentenced to prostitution. the european parliament should have sounded the alarm. we are sending a clear request to the european commission: from now on, the gender dimension must be fully included in our reception arrangements. that's the meaning of our comrade honeyball's report.
in writing. ‒ all the provisions of the report ultimately aim to further exacerbate the migrant crisis by facilitating their entry and stay in europe, leading to excessive expenditure. the report does not mention the persecution of christians, who are exposed to violence, either in their countries of origin or in asylum seekers' centres (the same applies to shiites, yazidis and kurds). he makes no distinction between war refugees and economic refugees. the report does not address the danger posed by certain migrants, whether in terms of terrorism or ordinary violence. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. women refugees may also flee their countries in the event of rape, forced marriage or domestic violence and should therefore be afforded specific protection. from the moment they arrive at the reception centres, they may also be exposed to sexual violence, human trafficking and violation of their rights. however, none of this is taken into account either as a valid reason for obtaining asylum or in the reception conditions. measures must be taken: better reception of refugee women and their children with proper training of those responsible for their reception, the cessation of detention, the establishment of separate housing and sanitation and better social inclusion and integration of these women. i have doubts about closer coordination between the police and judicial bodies, given the risks inherent in the use of the files, and i regret that neither the oppressive reception conditions in turkey nor the confiscation of refugees' property have been reported! this report is, however, a step in the right direction, and it is imperative to ensure the safety of refugee women. i voted yes.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to make two comments. the first concerns turkey. here is a country that is against democracy, we see it with recent events, that supports islamism - now everyone recognizes it - that is against international law in iraq, in syria, and that also supports organized crime. but you want to subject europe - perhaps because it is in germany's interest or that of a chancellor who has betrayed her people and europe - to agreements with a country which does not meet european standards in any way. do you think that's normal? aren't you afraid that the countries will rise up and split europe apart? the second point concerns our moralism. he failed in the face of truth and reality. our moralism has been that of submission to the master, the united states, to those who pay qatar, saudi arabia or to blackmail and dhimmitude. it is quite normal that in these circumstances we should play the role of the straw man. that's the price you pay for denying reality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is planning to spend €700 million on what i call the 'barrel of danaids' of migrant reception policies. so, in view of this figure, let me have a special thought for the people of calais and grande-synthe, who are suffering the direct consequences of this disastrous policy of overwhelming migration, as well as for those families who can no longer live in safety, for the shopkeepers who lock the door and, above all, for those women who have been victims, as in cologne, of multiple sexual assaults by migrants who have no respect for the laws of the host country. that is why, rather than financing and covering the expenses related to the migration invasion, this money - our money - should be used to dismantle wild camps and finance the immediate expulsion of illegal migrants, but also to help hungary, bulgaria and greece secure their borders and stop the flow of migrants.
madam president, the least that can be said is that the european agenda on migration, which was presented 20 months ago, is ineffective and inoperative. it's a complete and total failure. how could it be otherwise when the essence of this agenda is based, in fact, on the more or less goodwill of the government of a third country, in this case turkey, with which the european union has ambiguous, even schizophrenic relations. this government is playing it safe. he has understood the weakness of this europe, stuck in its dogmas of eradicating internal borders and its desire to welcome hundreds of thousands of immigrants, despite the hostility of the european peoples. this opens the way for increasingly demanding bargains. you have just put a nuclear weapon in the hands of mr erdogan by entrusting him with the guarding of an external border of the union, and therefore with the ability to open or close the taps of mass immigration. the one-for-one system advocated by mrs merkel, which promises to accept one legal refugee for every illegal immigrant intercepted or readmitted to turkey, is not only sordid but doomed to failure. on the one hand, the problem of the final destination of these legal refugees is not solved, since the majority of member states refuse to participate in your system of resettlement quotas. besides, i'm guessing that the would-be illegal immigrants and especially the traffickers have already figured out how to profit from it. albert einstein said that you can't change a system with the same ideas that created it. i think he was right. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i share your view on this. i believe that this is an unacceptable bargaining chip which will reinforce already considerable migratory flows, in particular, with the abolition of visas, migratory flows coming from turkey itself. there are many economic immigration candidates in cappadocia for the european union.
madam president, you are a little bit like sisyphus. the commission has taken stock of the scale of the crisis and, after three packages of measures, after evaluations, after successive summits, implementation today remains unbalanced, even hopeless, since the states, every evening, are undoing what you set up in the morning. for four years now we have been asking here in parliament for the protection of the external borders to preserve schengen, legal migration routes and solidarity between states. the more time passes, the more the states seem incapable of taking up their responsibilities, apart from germany and greece. they are hiding, they are entangled in a double, deadly paralysis on two levels: firstly, because thousands of people die every day and millions of families are destroyed by wars and, secondly, because we are witnessing, as it were, the wavering arms, the wreckage of the values which have presided over the construction of europe. so from sisyphus, gentlemen, turn into prometheus and put the states at the foot of the wall.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is certainly not responsible for the migration tragedy we are experiencing in europe, but by its inconsistent policy and by the messages it has sent, it has contributed greatly to illegal immigration on its territory. it is clear that by extending the quota policy we have encouraged migrants to come to our territory. the reality is that in france, the government has chosen to empty this incredible and indecent calais jungle to distribute migrants in the villages of france, in respite centers. in the schengen area, there are no borders, and these centres are not prisons. almost 25% of the migrants who were distributed in these villages left without leaving an address. in germany, too, nearly 160,000 people are not geographically identifiable. many of these people have come to our country, to our territory and to the european union to have a destiny. well, we lied to them! this is the reality and the inconsistency of the european union's policy today. we must have a firm policy and make it known, and we must also have a return policy, which we do not have, because today's migration policy is totally wrong. i think we really have to take that into account in this house.
in writing. the european union and its member states have unfortunately failed to meet the challenge of welcoming refugees. they are even willing to renege on their international obligations by turning asylum seekers back to turkey. the summit of yesterday thus buried all hope of a europe of solidarity, humanity and responsibility. humanitarian aid is urgently needed in greece, but greece must not be turned into a gigantic refugee camp. we expected strong positions on the implementation of the relocation decisions already agreed by the member states, on safeguarding the schengen area through a precise plan for the abolition of internal border controls and on the development of safe and legal pathways for refugees and asylum seekers to europe. we also called for a complete overhaul of the dublin regulation to replace it with a harmonised european asylum system, based on solidarity and responsibility sharing between all member states. the summit, with its deplorable record, ended in a shameless bargaining, marking the victory of national selfishness over the general european interest.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr timmermans, who could have imagined that behind the word 'better regulation' there is in fact a desire to legislate less well? i am afraid that behind this word there is indeed an ideology, that of at least legislating, not of best legislating; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i tell you, mr vice-president, the burden of europe is not administrative. it is democratic and social. it is the 27 million unemployed, the refugees who cannot be welcomed with dignity and the problems facing this europe that have nothing to do with administration. so, behind the ideology of 'less regulation' and the desire to see that markets are liberalised, we must ask ourselves what kind of europe we want. i, mr vice-president, am advocating a europe that regulates, that regulates the quality of air and water, that ensures that health is respected. this is not the europe of bureaucracy, where we are going to pay officials to check what we have not legislated on for almost a year. kafka dreamed of it, europe is doing it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i must admit that i was distressed to read this report. this long thought as a day without bread contains nothing concrete or useful. empty words are repeated, repeated, repeated, in a vicious waltz that leads nowhere. the big statements about transparency might have made me laugh, but when i see the opacity surrounding tafta and the influence of the lobbies within the institutions, it is not laughter that grips me, but indignation. when i look at the monstrous cost of the posting of workers directive to the french social protection system and, above all, to the french people themselves, i know that european legislation is not intended to serve the interests of individuals and peoples, but only its ultra-liberal dogmas and the interests of a few powerful multinationals. there is only one way for the european union to legislate better, and that is to not legislate at all. that every people should regain its fundamental right to decide its own laws and that states should cooperate in good faith. the freedom of the sovereign people within each nation is the only valid legislative principle in a democracy.
mr president, justice and the creation of a common area for european workers do not need a revision of the directive on posted workers. the one you propose, madam commissioner, maintains the competition of employees within the european union. we therefore ask you to draw up a new directive, based on consultation with trade union organisations, with the aim of ensuring that posted workers are treated equally in terms of pay, social protection and working conditions. it should be complemented by the creation of a european corps of labour inspectors responsible for enforcing a high level of labour law. the european institutions should become the source of new economic, social and democratic rights for all workers, otherwise it will be increasingly rejected, as it is now.
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is finally talking about social europe. unfortunately, your proposal is still in the shade. of course, you make some useful improvements, starting with the guarantee of equal pay for equal work in the same workplace. but, be careful, let's stop the slogans! we must go further, we must go faster, with real safeguards against the abuse of secondment in europe: establish a real blacklist of fraudulent companies, prohibit the continuation of the posting of workers in the event of fraud. all of this is crucial before it is too late, commissioner. why would you do that? because social dumping is the symbol of the struggle between the supporters of a europe that protects and the supporters of a europe that destroys. in the absence of agreement on increased controls and the introduction of real measures to promote social harmonization from above, the very fate of our union is at stake. that is why we environmentalists continue to fight for a european body of labour inspectors to carry out effective checks, but also for a european minimum wage, a european unemployment insurance scheme and a european universal health cover. the lasting union of europeans is at that price.
mr president, commissioner, by reopening this directive on posted workers you are tackling a question used by populists who prefer to exacerbate national withdrawal. you are courageous to reopen this targeted review and to state your objective clearly: more mobility in europe, because what we want is to facilitate job creation, facilitate the dynamism of enterprises and that everyone here has a job and social protection at european level. yes, we are working through this text for all european workers, for the dynamics of employment. we must mobilise the member states to fight fraud, to implement these european texts, to build here, all together - and i see the first signs of this tonight, as i have heard - points of consensus that allow us to move forward together. we will be with you, commissioner.
mr president, i would like you to answer my concern because i have noticed that during the debate on the directive on posted workers, no member of the far-right group to which the front national, the enf or the enl belongs, attended the debate or asked to speak. i wanted to know whether it was you who had forbidden them to speak or whether they had simply completely disinterested themselves in this debate, which they nevertheless repeat to us in every election campaign to taunt europe. as we are doing some real background work, i could see that they were not present tonight.
in writing. the commission is today presenting its proposal for a targeted revision of the 'posting' directive. the principle would be that a posted worker would receive the same pay as a local worker, including bonuses and other benefits. it is undoubtedly favourable to the posted worker, if not to the unemployed national, but frankly i do not see how it solves the problem of social dumping and unfair competition. because this competition also lies in a difference in cost. in france, even if their wages are the same, a romanian or polish posted worker will still cost less than a french or immigrant worker. and this will always give foreign companies a competitive advantage over their french competitors in order to win markets, such as the organisation of the ps summer universities or cop21, for example. it would also be a question of limiting the duration of the secondment to two years, which is already a huge amount, with the automatic transformation of the posted worker into an immigrant worker after this period. and frankly, the consequences are staggering. i am waiting to see the exact wording of your proposals. you yourself have said, commissioner, that you want more posted workers, more crossborder service provision. that 's the problem !
in writing. the european commission has today presented its proposal for a revision of the rules governing the posting of workers within the union. it was time, when we know that the current directive has reached the canonical age of 20 years. while the 1996 directive was designed to protect employees, it has been largely diverted from its objective, opening the way to widespread social and fiscal competition between workers, enterprises and social protection systems. at first sight, several of the proposals in this project are interesting: posted workers should enjoy the same pay conditions as their colleagues working for the same company under a contract from the host country. they should also be entitled to the thirteenth month, christmas or seniority bonuses if they exist in the sector in which they are employed. however, these proposals do not eliminate all forms of abuse. this is particularly the case with social security contributions and the portability of rights acquired by the employee in the host country. this review, which has now been initiated, is giving new impetus to the debate on the fight against social dumping. social europe is the sine qua non for the future of the european project.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs zimmer, raising the social pillar to the same level as the economic pillar has become the new hammer of mr juncker's union, no doubt to improve the image of the european project among citizens who are increasingly eurosceptic. this 180-degree turn even proposes to encourage the development of the welfare state along two lines: by supporting measures that ensure a higher level of social protection within the member states themselves, while trying to define common objectives to ensure social convergence throughout the euro area. even if the addition of a social dimension to the european semester is a pretext for imposing a new round of structural reforms on the member states, economic convergence remains the priority to save the euro area, a euro area that is being undermined by a very hesitant recovery and by the development of a two-speed social europe. raising social standards is especially likely to have a negative impact on the labour market, as the convergence of higher social standards remains difficult to combine with policies for more efficient labour markets in a context of - remember - drastic budgetary constraints renewed every six months since 2007 and which generate - as already mentioned - endemic poverty.
madam president, commissioner, in 2014, when the president of the european commission made that beautiful statement here in the european parliament and announced his intention to make social europe with a triple a social dimension, it aroused immense hope here in the ranks, but also among the peoples of europe. your roadmap, which you detailed earlier, shows us how much you are working towards this goal every day. the figures are improving slightly, but we are still at 9% unemployment in europe, on average, much higher than in the united states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the young people in the community. it is clear that social europe obviously involves integration into the workplace. i would like to say here that the first lever of social integration, the first lever of social europe, is the european social fund, the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee. i hope that together, as part of the programme you have described, we will be able to maintain and develop these tools. we must mobilize the member states, because it is they whom we must train to really build social europe together. the social europe is both the europe of employment and the europe of social protection for each citizen. thank you for working on it. you can count on us!
madam president, commissioner, in 2014 president juncker said he wanted a triple a social europe. that statement launched the debate and i believe that, a little over a year later, many of us share the view that it is essential to give the european union a social face. that said, the question remains. what do we mean by a social face? i believe that the best form of social protection is to have a job, a job that is dignified and well paid. this involves two things. first, we must equip our citizens with all the tools they need to enter the labour market, such as skills, languages and the means to be mobile. arming our fellow citizens also means giving the same weapons to all, without unfair competition or a race to the bottom. at the same time, we must also enable our companies, whether industrial, craft or agricultural, to create jobs, which obviously requires a regulatory framework that is favourable to them and that encourages them to invest and innovate. behind the triple a social, behind the slogan, it must enable europe to regain its identity after a crisis which has shaken our continent, which has made our fellow citizens doubt and has placed them in great precariousness. a europe that is reconciled with business and workers is social convergence.
madam president, commissioner, we need some indicators. there are economic ones, and we need social ones so that we can evaluate. but i'd like to share a conviction with you. when we have a free internal market which allows the movement of workers, if there is not at the same time social convergence, it is the internal market itself that is threatened. more importantly, i believe that if there is no process of social convergence, then the european union itself may be threatened, because anti-european, anti-european, nationalist-retreatist voices will then gain even more power than they do today. to do that, you need a method. this method is to propose things, even if at first they are in the minority, not being heard by the council. it's all right. at least the proposals are there. parliament can take it up and we can support you and work with you. finally, we must start with priorities. if we cannot get to 28 at the beginning, well then there is the eurozone; let this eurozone lead the others, if we cannot act together now! the triple a social must not be a word, it must now be a method.
madam president, madam european commissioner, dear marianne thyssen, dear colleagues, by calling for the triple a social in his speech in this house in october 2014, president juncker has launched a new social dynamic in europe, a dynamic that is supposed to bring about a convergence of european countries from above. europe must indeed set an example in this area. the social europe must not remain a utopia. if, of course, we cannot have a uniform labour code for all 28 member states, let us move together towards common rights and benchmarks for workers. this convergence would indeed be a means of effectively combating social dumping and a response to the dysfunctions of several of our directives. i know that in that capacity, madam european commissioner, you have dealt effectively with the issue of the posting of workers, which was the subject of the previous debate. i have full confidence in your ability to correct certain shortcomings in the text currently in force. to move towards this social europe we must go beyond the current framework of the european semester. we must relaunch the european social dialogue as envisaged by jacques delors, our former president of the european commission. in my country, france, social protection and workers' rights are not empty words. however, let us not make the mistake, at european level as in france, of adding or even piling up rules, which are sometimes inapplicable and burdensome for our companies. to be effective, we must be clear and precise about the essentials.
madam president, the commission is putting forward this so-called free and undistorted competition, considering it to be the basis of social progress. i think that today in europe, competition is neither free nor unbiased, because the social systems are too different from one country to another. the 'posting of workers' directive does not live up to social expectations. it is now causing more problems than it solves. we see this, for example, in the agricultural sector, where it creates distortions of competition through the use of these so-called posted workers and exacerbates the agricultural crisis today. i believe that today there is a need for a very strong harmonization of social legislation in europe and i would also add, finally, that we must not forget to harmonize tax legislation, because europe is dying from these two problems: a lack of social harmonization and a lack of fiscal harmonization.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by caterina chinnici, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (com ((2013) 0822 - c7-0428/2013 - 2013/0408 ((cod)) (a8-0020/2015).
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when democracy and the rule of law are under attack within the union itself, it was important to reach a firm agreement on this directive, especially since it is a directive dedicated to the most vulnerable of europeans, namely children. let us never forget - it is often an open door that is pushed through, but i am pleased to remind you tonight, even very late - that children are the future adults who constitute our future and that giving them priority in a text is something refreshing. it is essential to work to preserve and protect our future, rather than to control the present by the times we live in. i would like to pay particular tribute to the hard work and determination of caterina chinnici over these long months and thank her for reaching this ambitious agreement with all of us and for establishing these procedural rights which she has mentioned and which we are pleased to stress are essential because, despite the establishment of fundamental principles at european and international level, justice is not always perfectly, or sometimes not at all, adapted to children and young people. i shall not go into the psychological environment that can be found in a minor in a praetorium. it was important that this text should firmly establish that they can benefit from additional guarantees, from a justice that is adapted to their age and to their needs, from a justice that, of course, treats them with dignity, care and fairness, and that is accessible, understandable and reliable. the directive consolidates these provisions by giving children the opportunity to be informed and to benefit from a personalised assessment and, above all, the right to access to the assistance of a lawyer; it also ensures that alternatives to detention are sought, to the extent possible. we have to complete the third part, legal aid, which we hope will be successful.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i believe that criminal justice should be a matter for the sovereignty of states. that is why i am opposed to this proposal for a directive which seeks to introduce european safeguards for children who are being prosecuted. the european union is in any case unable to offer clear guarantees. article 6 of the proposed directive, for example, recognises the right of children to have a lawyer, but this is to immediately deny this right when, i quote, 'the assistance of a lawyer is not proportionate to the circumstances of the case'. and in article 12 it gives them the right to be kept separately from adults, but it is to derogate from it immediately when, i quote, 'it is not possible in practice to do so'. the union has already ruined french industry and agriculture, it has dismantled our frontiers with the results we see in calais. it should not interfere with our criminal justice system, which need not be destabilized by the mediocrity of the safeguards it offers today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr jens geier, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget, section iii commission (2016/2004 ((bud)) (a80036/2016).
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that after a budget for 2016 which we voted on with responsibility, pushing the levers of flexibility to the maximum, 2017 is coming, a test of truth for the european union. indeed, our ability to respond to crises will determine our common future. we need political responses and solidarity. i am referring to the fact that the coordination of national resources is no longer sufficient. we must work to harmonise and put in place common tools where there are common challenges. one example: the question of borders is one of these tests of truth. we cannot simply coordinate the action of the states. we need community border guards and a community policy if we are to save free movement. this much-needed political breakthrough will not be achieved without financial effort. the limitations of the union's budget do not allow this effort to be made today. i would therefore like to draw your attention to the paragraphs in our resolution on the revision of the financial framework for 2014-2020. this revision must respond to this unprecedented crisis. we will appreciate the 2017 budget in this renewed framework.
madam president, i would first like to welcome the work of our colleague, mr geier, and say how urgent it is that the european union finally has budgetary tools that are commensurate with the policies it is pursuing or should pursue. for 2016, we made the most of the tools we had, the ceilings, the margins, we took down partitions and pushed back walls. in the face of the accumulation of crises - economic and social, agricultural, migratory, geopolitical, terrorist - today, the king is naked. however, we cannot sacrifice the union's strategic policies, such as horizon 2020, research, the ems, the cap, to meet the perils of the moment. the question of budgetary resources is therefore acutely raised, and the states must be aware of this situation and the need to find new resources. in this respect, we are very much looking forward to the results of the work of the high level group on own resources, which should enable us to give this european budget a little oxygen.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 march 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is cruel! in the last round of negotiations between turkey and europe, president erdogan issued a dictate to this inherently weak, and it must be said, failing european union. i called her the big, soft jellyfish once, and i think i got it right. after obtaining three billion euros last november to stem the flow of migrants, a promise that has obviously not been followed up, it now demands six billion to do so. the evidence of broken promises is also read in the figures: in january 2016, twelve times more migrants from turkey landed in greece, compared to january 2015. erdogan is rolling you in the dough, erdogan is blackmailing you. it is even demanding today that visas be abolished to allow its citizens to join the european union and, finally, that the process of turkey's accession to the european union be accelerated, as a reward for its non-cooperation. it is clear that the european union does not make us stronger. on the contrary, it creates a permanent blur and a deadly weakness, which mr erdogan takes full advantage of. he shows you every day how little he values your moral lessons, since your irresponsible choices have made him overpowered. so, a major turkish opposition newspaper was raided last week by police, who chased journalists away with water cannons and tear gas, the turkish army is bombing the kurds in syria - i remind you that the kurds are the fiercest opponents of daesh and al-qaeda - turkey shot down a russian plane, it is involved in the smuggling of daesh oil - which you refuse to look the other way - and finally, it is destabilized by multiple attacks on its soil, caused by mr. erdogan's gross domestic and foreign policy mistakes. is this the country you want to integrate into europe? finally, one country has found an effective solution to the migration crisis. this is, of course, australia. a wide publicity campaign has been carried out in all the countries of emigration to warn that illegal immigrants and boats will be systematically returned to their countries of origin, and this is the case. this clear and firm policy has produced undeniable results. so let's be pragmatic, responsible, and embrace it. let us create as many filters as possible by putting strong national borders back in place! let us create, under the auspices of the un, protected refugee camps in syria or in countries close to syria, to settle war refugees in decent conditions. everyone will benefit: europeans who can no longer cope will no longer be overwhelmed by unmanageable migration phenomena, migrants who will no longer be attracted by false promises, with the risk of death and stranding at the end of the journey.
mr president, i have just returned from turkey and the results of the summit are reaching me. what i heard there was beyond comprehension: journalists and judges gagged, academics resigned, accused of terrorism, activists murdered in cold blood. of course, there is also the south-east and the cities under curfew: more than 760 civilians murdered since july, including a hundred children including toddlers from terrorists of course! cizre is a symbol of these abuses. the images i saw were more like the syrian war than a so-called democratic country: the city completely destroyed, the laws of war not even respected, the evidence of massacres destroyed, and they try to hide the bodies. and it is to this country that we want to outsource migration policy. this is the country we want to make safe. the turkish authorities themselves have created the refugee crisis in europe. they are now blackmailing the european union, and it is working! we must prevent another caesar from rising in sour. i'm ashamed of you! the european union is losing its soul. finally, mr president, we must open our eyes and send an official european parliament mission to the region as soon as possible. we are many groups asking for it.
mr president, last monday in brussels was another summit of last chance. one more! the outcome of this summit, like the eight summits before it, is not only disappointing but also very worrying. this should be a challenge to us because the european council on 18 and 19 march will be crucial, because we will have to choose between a europe of the union as it was conceived 60 years ago and a europe of each man for himself. at a time when schengen is under threat, this europe of selfishness is not the solution to the migration crisis. as always, our position on turkey is completely ambiguous. the negotiations with turkey that began last monday are probably the worst we have had in a long time. europe is negotiating with turkey as divided as ever and without a well-developed strategy, without consultation between all. europe, helpless, is falling into the hands of the turks, and is throwing itself into the wolf's mouth. madam minister, what you're proposing is irresponsible. every week, turkey comes up with a new list of claims. it's the climb. as regards visas, 72 criteria must be met before turkish citizens can benefit from them. the european council has committed itself to allowing these visas before 1 june. you are forgetting, madam minister, that this is a matter for the european parliament, which intends to exercise its full co-decision power in this area. the council is committed to paying an additional three billion, but it is a fraudulent market, since you were not able to pay the three billion promised last october. what control will you have over the use of those six billion? the hypocrisy is total, after all, with this sea serpent that is turkey's membership of the european union. we know that such a prospect is unrealistic and will not come to pass. what we want is action, because europe cannot always be shirking its responsibilities towards others. let us stop this blackmail which is disgraceful to the european union! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, madam grossetête, i agree with what you have just said. you denounce this agreement between the european union and turkey, which you very rightly described as a bargain of fools. you have mentioned that we are going to liberalize visas far too easily and without, moreover, respecting the rules that should be respected. you mentioned that we're going to pay six billion euros, and all of this in exchange for what? in return for promises made by a government which, as we can see, respects none of the freedoms in its own country. so i ask you this question: how can you continue to support the european union in such conditions?
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i simply think that europe was built on crises. it is experiencing unprecedented crises today. i still have confidence in the european union's ability to react. it is still necessary for it to exercise its responsibilities fully!
mr president, it is normal to talk to turkey, but it is indecent to delegate to it the management of our borders and our right to asylum, promising it, moreover, membership which would be contrary to the integrated europe we want. if europe is to exist, it must assume its own responsibilities: taking its share of the refugees, of course; not to leave greece alone on the front line; to process asylum applications from those on its territory; to operate, as necessary, regular readmission mechanisms; setting up eu-run offices in host countries to register asylum applications, process them and accept or reject them; the european union must link its financial aid to turkey to the dismantling of criminal networks of smugglers and, finally, monitor and manage its own borders by setting up a body of coastguards and border guards. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my view is diametrically opposed to yours. greece is part of schengen. we must show solidarity with him every minute and every moment, which we have not done enough in the last months and years. the external border of the european union is the greek border, but it is the external border of our european union, and we must stand by the greeks more than ever.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the turkish game is clear: raise the bidding, get 3 billion euros, get visas, get a blank cheque for turkish domestic policy. do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that europe is weak today, that the european union is very weak in this negotiation with turkey?
mr president, there is no shortage of qualifications to comment on this eu-turkey summit. to the more moderate, he gave birth to a mouse. for many others, it is the height of shame. i'm one of the latter. since the next european council on 17 and 18 march will decide, we must look at the impact of the guidelines from the discussions on monday. i can only address a few. the effects of the closure of the balkan route, firstly: the member states are miscalculating here, because, in one move, greece is being injected, but at the same time it is being suffocated. explain to me how we can proclaim the salvation of schengen while at the same time endorsing unilateral decisions to close borders in the union and its neighbourhood. cooperation with turkey, then: it is certainly an essential partner in the region, and cooperation between the eu and turkey is necessary, but if solutions are to be found elsewhere, they should also and above all be found within the union. in this case, we are not only complying with the requirements of this partner, but we are subcontracting the management of the crisis to him, in exchange for an increase in the bids. the member states are shirking their responsibilities, the principle of solidarity and, finally, their principles in general. this is evidenced by the principle modestly entitled 'resettlement of syrians in the eu on a one-for-one basis'. this is a shameful trade in that one syrian has to risk drowning for another syrian to enter the union. i never imagined that the demand for legal action would take such a sordid form. the legality and applicability of such a scheme also remains to be demonstrated. in the search for a deal at any cost, the eu is losing itself in the name of realpolitik, as the member states seem ready to sit on a number of principles and turn a blind eye to the power in place in turkey, its control over the media, the imprisonment of academics and threats to the judicial system. in the end, the summit's record shows that, under the guise of joint decisions, the very idea of a europe of solidarity and responsibility is in danger of being undermined.
mr president, when the turkish prime minister arrived at the european council, he may have expected to meet the government of europe. it's actually in the middle of a big mess that he landed. our leaders of state or government, unable to make decisions, have become masters of bargaining. after the blackmail of david cameron, who is asking for his country to step outside the union, we are now faced with the blackmail of the turks, who are seeking to step inside. our leaders are spending insane energy tinkering with circumstantial responses. but with what result? the european coast and border guard and the centralisation of asylum processing have not yet been established. there is no real development policy which makes readmission to third countries a condition. the europeans have no credible foreign policy to end the conflict in syria. three billion for turkey. how much for lebanon and jordan, and tomorrow for the reconstruction of syria? i'm ashamed of this europe. i am ashamed of the show of powerlessness we give to our fellow citizens. i still want to believe in the leap forward so that europe can take its place in history. yes, the next council is a historic meeting.
mr president, the answer we expect from the heads of state or government on 17 and 18 march is not to say that the future of the european union depends on turkey. they have to take responsibility, and they're loud. no one can think that the influx of refugees will be solved by simply returning them to turkey. if this has not been demonstrated so far, i believe that the european council meeting on this subject has shown it. the spring european council is the appointment, mr dombrovskis said, to check on the state of the european economy. there is a bridge to be built to loosen the grip of austerity policies and to enable the european union to borrow where necessary in order to both welcome refugees with dignity and to enable states which need to support their populations after years of austerity to do so under the right conditions. this european council must solve an economic equation, but it must also be an occasion for a call for solidarity, which implies a borrowing capacity to finance this solidarity.
in writing. after receiving €3 billion last november to stem the flow of migrants into the eu, turkey is now asking for €6 billion. and all without a single effect, because between january 2015 and january 2016, twelve times more migrants arrived in greece from turkey. president erdogan is blackmailing the eu in a despicable way and is even asking for the eu accession process to be accelerated. turkey simply does not belong in the eu by geography, much less by values. freedom of the press is being trampled on. turkey is a transit hub for the oil harvested by the islamic state group and one may even wonder if it is not encouraging its expansion. the only viable solution to ending mass immigration is to put in place strong national borders, stop the immigration suction pumps and ask middle eastern states to take in daesh refugees in their homes to avoid the human tragedies of crossing by boat or across europe.
in writing. the agreement negotiated between the european union and turkish president erdogan is, in my opinion, unbalanced: in exchange for the return of syrian refugees to turkey, the country has asked the european union for an additional 3 billion euros, visa liberalization for turkish citizens and the opening of five chapters of negotiations for accession to the european union. this summit shows that the turkish president does not hesitate to take advantage of the humanitarian crisis and to take refugees hostage to achieve his aims. this is unacceptable blackmail and i call on the heads of state of the european union not to give in to it.
in writing. will the eu-turkey summit on 7 march be the one that heralds the end of the european project? the decisions which are coming out of this summit are an unacceptable tipping point from which we may not recover. the council would decide to substitute repression for solidarity. in the absence of a fair and united distribution of refugees, the member states seem to be ready to do anything to get an agreement with turkey to stop the migrants. after having closed their borders one by one, isolating greece, they are now determined to return refugees to turkey, in contravention of the principle of non-refoulement and the obligation to protect the right of asylum under the geneva convention. turning a blind eye to the authoritarian excesses of the turkish regime, the heads of state are promising to speed up the accession process of that country, while promising billions of euros, which we doubt will ever be financed. this repressive orientation is not mine. the council has until 17 march to come to its senses and resume solidarity!
in writing. ‒ air pollution by sulphur is very harmful to human health. the directive sets the maximum sulphur content that ships may release. i voted in favour of this text, which is limited in scope but positive.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution as the committee had recommended.
in writing. ‒ the directive in question sets the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health. in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity, and damage agriculture and forests. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which is intended above all to clarify the law in this area.
in writing. ‒ this directive regulates the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. marine fuel boats have a high sulphur content, which is a source of air pollution and is harmful to health. naturally, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and harm agriculture and forests. it is only a codification and this text encourages the fight against pollution and acidification, which are damaging to the environment. i am voting for this text.
in writing. - since, on the one hand, it is merely a codification and, on the other hand, the codified text contributes to the fight against pollution and acidification, which damage our environment, i have no reason to oppose it. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to codify a text to fix the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil and marine diesel used in the european union. the emissions from fuel-powered vessels contain a high sulphur content, the release of which is dangerous for marine ecosystems and biodiversity. this coding helps to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment. that is why i voted for this proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, it is merely a codification, that is, a formalisation of the law aimed at making it more readable and thus simplifying it. the text also aims to strengthen the fight against pollution and acidification, which are damaging to our environment. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the codified text helps to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment.
in writing. this directive lays down the maximum permitted sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health. in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity, and damage agriculture and forests. the fact that this is merely a codification and that the codified text is also helping to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging to our environment, is no reason for us to oppose it. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague laura ferrara on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain fuels. it is a reworking of the existing texts for the sake of clarity without changing their substance. the aim of this text is to reduce the amount of toxic substances in the air and thus improve its quality. i support this regulation because poor air quality in the union is responsible for many deaths and respiratory diseases. it is therefore urgent to achieve the quality standards that the union has set itself in order to remedy the adverse consequences on health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a directive to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels. this will help to reduce the effects of these dangerous emissions on man and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. it is a codification which is part of a process of simplification and clarification. the directive sets the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the european union. emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health. in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is in favour of codifying a text which combats a form of pollution.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it is part of the fight against pollution and acidification by setting the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. i agree with the directive's desire to protect fragile ecosystems, biodiversity, agriculture and forests. the approach of simplification and clarification of union law in this area, undertaken by the directive, and although formal and not substantive, is desirable.
in writing. - i voted yes. this report is part of a process of simplifying and clarifying eu law, in order to make it more readable and accessible. the directive sets the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, diesel fuel, marine diesel fuel and marine diesel used in the union. these fuels contain high levels of sulphur which cause pollution and health problems in humans, which reduce biodiversity and harm agriculture and forests. this text will help to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment.
in writing. ‒ air pollution in the eu is very harmful to human health. the directive sets the maximum sulphur content of marine fuel-powered vessels. i found this text to be appropriate, since it is not harmful. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this directive lays down the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health. in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests. this text is a constant rate codification. it is a necessary countermeasure against pollution and acidification, which are damaging our environment. it must therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ the ferrara report is part of a process of simplifying and clarifying eu law to make it more readable and accessible to the public and to lawyers. it proceeds from a welcome desire for transparency. the proposal deals more specifically with a change in trade rules to help developing countries in their fight against the following pandemics: aids, tuberculosis and malaria. as it only marginally changes, and for the sake of clarity, a mechanism which is beneficial to the development of third countries and to the fight against deadly diseases, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in so far as it only seeks to codify a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels, without changing the content of the text.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. i would like to express my support for the directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels.
in writing. ‒ this directive lays down the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health. in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests. as it is merely a codification and as the codified text helps to combat pollution and acidification, which are damaging to our environment, i have no reason to oppose it and therefore i am voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to codify the text on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. codification is a continental legal tradition, which consists of bringing together in a new single text a legislative act and all its amendments.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the codification of a directive on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain fuels. the purpose of the proposed codified directive is to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thus to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment. it lays down, in particular, the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. the union and the individual member states are parties to the unece convention of 13 november 1979 on long-range transboundary air pollution. that convention, and in particular the protocols thereto, have undergone developments in recent years to which the union must adapt, in accordance with its international commitments, but also in order to pursue its objectives of environmental protection and public health.
in writing. ‒ this directive sets the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union. emissions from marine fuel ships have a high sulphur content, which contributes to air pollution and is harmful to human health. in addition, acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, reduce biodiversity and damage agriculture and forests. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the proposal codifies trade rules to help poor countries fight aids, malaria and tuberculosis. the regulation prohibits the re-export to europe of medicines sold at low prices in these countries. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution as the committee had recommended.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003, which provides for trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against one of the three pandemics: aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which kill millions of people every year. the regulation establishes a mechanism to prevent medicines sold at low prices to poor countries from being re-exported to the european union. the regulation prohibits the entry into the customs territory of the eu of products which have been accepted as differentiated priced products and have therefore been exported as such to a poor country. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which is intended above all to clarify the law in this area.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003, which provides for trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against one of the three pandemics of aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which kill millions of people every year. the regulation establishes a programme to prevent medicines sold at low prices to poor countries from being re-exported to the european union. the regulation prohibits the entry into the customs territory of the european union of medicinal products approved as products subject to different prices which have been exported as such to a poor country. it is only a codification and this text encourages the fight against epidemics which are spreading in developing countries. that is why i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. - on the one hand, it is merely a codification and, on the other hand, the codified text helps to combat epidemics in developing countries, so i have no reason to oppose it. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to codify council regulation (ec) no 653/2003 of 26 may 2003, which provides for favourable trade rules to help the least developed countries to combat the three pandemics of aids, malaria and tuberculosis. in concrete terms, this regulation establishes a mechanism to prevent medicines sold at low prices from being re-exported to the european union. the regulation prohibits the entry into the customs territory of the union of products subject to differentiated prices. this coding helps to combat these epidemics, which are responsible for the deaths of millions of people every year. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this codification is part of a process of simplifying and clarifying eu law in order to make it more readable and accessible. the text also helps to combat epidemics in developing countries. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the codified text helps to combat epidemics in developing countries.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003, which provides for trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against one of the three pandemics of aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which kill millions of people every year. the regulation establishes a mechanism to prevent medicines sold at low prices to poor countries from being re-exported to the european union. the regulation prohibits the entry into the eu's customs territory of products which have been accepted as products subject to differentiated prices and have consequently been exported as such to a poor country. in the sense that, on the one hand, it is merely a codification and, on the other hand, the codified text helps to combat epidemics in developing countries, we have no reason to oppose it. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs laura ferrara, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to countries of the european union. it is a reworking of the existing texts for the sake of clarity without changing their substance. the purpose of this text is to establish reduced prices for medicines in developing countries which often do not have the capacity to manufacture medicines. but these are sometimes illegally returned to the original market at the same price. i therefore support this text, which seeks to prevent these medicinal products from being imported into the union.
in writing. ‒ mrs ferrara's report concerns a proposal for a commission regulation concerning the diversion of certain essential medicines to eu countries. there is a difference in the pricing of essential medicines in the markets of developed and poorer developing countries. in order to ensure that they were supplied with essential pharmaceutical products at significantly reduced prices, it was necessary to codify rules to prevent the importation into the union of essential medicinal products with differentiated prices. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the diversion of certain essential medicines to eu countries. the purpose of the codification is to simplify and clarify eu legislation in order to make it more readable and accessible. the purpose of this proposal is to codify a regulation providing for trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which kill millions of people every year. the regulation establishes a mechanism to prevent medicines sold at low prices to poor countries from being re-exported to the european union. the regulation prohibits the entry into the customs territory of the eu of products which have been accepted as differentiated priced products and have consequently been exported as such to a poor country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the codification of a text which tackles certain epidemics.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify regulation (ec) no 953/2003, which deals with trade rules for the fight against aids, tuberculosis and malaria in poor countries, three major pandemics that kill millions of people every year. the regulation is intended to regulate the sale of medicines at low prices and to prevent any diversion of these products away from poor countries. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted yes. as in the previous report, this text is part of a process of simplifying and clarifying eu law, in order to make it more readable and accessible. the regulation provides for trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against one of three pandemics - aids, tuberculosis and malaria - which kill millions of people every year. this text will help to combat epidemics in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ the proposal codifies trade rules to help poor countries combat three major diseases: aids, malaria and tuberculosis. in short, the regulation prohibits the re-export to europe of medicines specially sold at differentiated prices in those countries, the codified text being intended to combat these diseases which are prevalent in many developing states, and to prevent the spread of the disease to other countries. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the text is to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 establishing trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against one of the three pandemics: aids, tuberculosis and malaria. the regulation establishes a mechanism to prevent medicines sold at low prices to poor countries from being re-exported to the european union. it prohibits the entry into the customs territory of the eu of products which have been accepted as differentiated priced products and have therefore been exported as such to a poor country. this text can therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ the ferrara report is part of a process of simplifying and clarifying eu law, to make it more readable and accessible to the public and to lawyers. it proceeds from a welcome desire for transparency. the proposal deals more specifically with a change in trade rules to help developing countries in their fight against the following pandemics: aids, tuberculosis and malaria. as it only marginally changes, and for the sake of clarity, a mechanism which is beneficial to the development of third countries and the fight against deadly diseases, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, since it is only intended to codify a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, the aim of which is to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to eu countries, without changing the content of the text.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the regulation to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to eu countries.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003, which provides for trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against one of the three pandemics: aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which kill millions of people every year. the regulation establishes a mechanism to prevent medicines sold at low prices to poor countries from being re-exported to the european union. the regulation prohibits the entry into the customs territory of the eu of products which have been accepted as differentiated priced products and have consequently been exported as such to a poor country. as this is merely a codification and as the codified text helps to combat epidemics in developing countries, i support this text and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to codify the text on the diversion of certain medicines to countries of the european union. codification is a continental legal tradition, which consists of bringing together in a new single text a legislative act and all its amendments.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 laying down trade rules to help poor countries in their fight against one of the three pandemics of aids, tuberculosis and malaria, which kill millions of people every year. the regulation establishes a mechanism to prevent medicines sold at low prices to poor countries from being re-exported to the european union. the regulation prohibits the entry into the eu's customs territory of products which have been accepted as differentiated priced products and have therefore been exported as such to a poor country. i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on the validation of an exchange of financial information of eu residents to combat the concealment of income or assets. this report is consistent with our positions on the previous votes for the end of banking secrecy in europe. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it will contribute to efforts to combat tax evasion by increasing tax cooperation and automatic exchange of information between the union and andorra.
in writing. ‒ the vote was to validate the agreement signed on 12 february 2016 between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the text provides that the european union and andorra will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 1 january 2017. the aim is always to tackle so-called 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. i voted for this text, as i had done in my previous votes on similar agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein and san marino.
in writing. ‒ this agreement signed on 12 february 2016 between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts will be effective as of 1 january 2017. the aim of this agreement is to avoid the usual tax evasion of not paying taxes on certain assets, and in the spirit of combating tax evasion, i am voting for this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to validate the agreement signed on 12 february 2006 between the european union and andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in the context of improved tax cooperation. the aim of the agreement is to combat tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. these fraudulent practices result in a significant loss of revenue for the eu member states, which are implementing austerity measures to meet the budgetary requirements of the european commission. in line with oecd standards, the text provides that the information exchanged relates to savings income, account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. we are in favour of better tax cooperation between the member states of the union and third countries in order to stop tax evasion, in particular by putting an end to banking secrecy in europe. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the geographical situation of the principality of andorra, situated on the french-spanish border, requires special tax measures. the 2004 agreement between the european union and andorra ensures that the european union applies measures equivalent to those provided for in the savings income tax directive. this new agreement will allow for an increased exchange of information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, which will increase tax cooperation between the two entities. i voted in favour of this report, which is a further step in the process of strengthening tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to ratify the eu-andorra agreement to end banking secrecy between the member states of the european union and the principality of andorra. the text provides for the automatic exchange of information on customers' financial accounts for this purpose. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that banking secrecy and tax evasion are harmful to the financial interests of the union.
in writing. it is important that the union strengthen its cooperation with the principality of andorra, in particular in the area of the exchange of information on financial accounts, in order to prevent any attempt by a taxpayer to conceal income and not pay taxes. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this text as it aims to combat so-called ordinary tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. the aim is to validate an agreement under which the european union and the principality of andorra will automatically exchange account information on their respective residents from 2017. with this vote we are continuing the logic of the agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein and san marino on tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is consistent with our position on the end of banking secrecy in europe.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the european parliament has endorsed the agreement with the principality of andorra to combat tax evasion from 2017. the aim is to align tax legislation and to formalise an automatic exchange of information between the andorran and european authorities in order to combat fraud more effectively. in france, the government is demanding a considerable amount of effort from households to get the country back on the path to growth. i believe that the counterpart to these measures must be the hunt for the fraudsters who have lost more than 1 000 billion euros to europe and between 60 and 80 billion euros to france, according to estimates from 2013.
in writing. this is to validate the agreement between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 12 february 2016, aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the text provides that the european union and andorra will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 1 january 2017. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. in the logic of our positions on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino), it seems logical to be in favour of it. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague miguel viegas on the eu-andorra agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the european union has developed this agreement to increase tax transparency in the exchange of information between administrations. i support this exchange of information between the administrations of the european union and andorra, which is essential in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to set up an automatic exchange of tax information between the eu and andorra. this will help to combat the many taxpayers who seek to hide their capital in the principality of andorra to avoid tax, and to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-andorra agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. this is to validate the agreement between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of financial account information, signed on 12 february 2016, aimed at enhancing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the text provides that the european union and andorra will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 1 january 2017. the aim is to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it promotes a tax transparency agreement with andorra.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the agreement between the european union and andorra of 12 february 2016 is hereby validated. it implements the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which improves tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. in line with oecd standards, the agreement organises the exchange of information between savings income, account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets, and continues the fight against 'ordinary' tax evasion (the concealment of income or assets to avoid taxation). i have been keen to support this desire for transparency.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the purpose of this decision is to validate the agreement between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of financial account information signed on 12 february 2016 with a view to enhancing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the eu and andorra shall exchange account information on the basis of the provisions of this agreement. we have already supported similar agreements for switzerland, liechtenstein and san marino, so it makes sense that we should continue.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on the validation of an exchange of financial information of residents to combat concealment of income or assets. the agreement is comprehensive, since it also takes account of account balances and proceeds from the sale of assets, as required by oecd standards. this report is consistent with our positions on the previous votes for the end of banking secrecy in europe. as a result, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is to validate the agreement signed on 12 february 2016 between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the text provides that the european union and andorra will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 1 january 2017. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. in line with our positions on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino), we should support this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to endorse the agreement signed on 12 february 2016 between the eu member states and andorra on the automatic exchange of financial information as from 1 january 2017, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and the fight against tax evasion at international level. in continuing my opposition to the practice of banking secrecy in europe and wishing to put a stop to fraudulent financial practices, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which approves the conclusion of the agreement concluded on 12 february 2016 between andorra and the european union on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts. the new agreement provides that the member states of the european union and andorra will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, as of 2018, for information collected since 1 january 2017. the aim of the agreement is to combat tax fraud and evasion, which harm the financial interests of the european union and cause damage to taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the agreement signed with the principality of andorra allowing for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, in accordance with the measures provided for in the council directive.
in writing. ‒ this is to validate the agreement signed on 12 february 2016 between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the text provides that the european union and andorra will automatically exchange information on the accounts of their respective residents as of 1 january 2017. the aim is always to tackle 'ordinary' tax evasion, i.e. the concealment of income or assets in order to avoid taxation. in line with oecd standards, the agreement provides that the information exchanged covers not only savings income (interest and dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. in line with my views on the end of banking secrecy in europe (switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino), i support this text and therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this agreement between the european union and the principality of andorra, which will allow for the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of our respective residents. it is indeed beneficial that the eu-andorra relations are based on reciprocity and harmonisation of rules and above all that they are in line with global standards, such as the 2014 one on automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, promoted by the oecd.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text, which approves the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the european union and andorra signed an agreement on 12 february on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, with the aim of increasing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. the conclusion of this new agreement will now enable the tax administrations of the eu member states and andorra to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, to apply and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, to assess the likelihood of tax evasion and to avoid unnecessary new investigations. this agreement should enter into force on 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ this is to validate the agreement signed on 12 february 2016 between the eu and andorra on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance with tax obligations at international level. in line with the enl group's position on the end of banking secrecy in europe, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ mr fausto parente is hereby appointed to the executive board of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a term of office of 5 years. since this person was not properly introduced, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. the president remains mr gabriel bernardino. in the absence of any evidence for or against the candidate, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report, which confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term, keeping mr gabriel bernardino as chairman, does not provide any evidence in favour or against the candidate, nor any clarification. i therefore decide to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ this report confirms the appointment of mr fausto as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. without any evidence for or against the candidate, i have decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. in the absence of decisive factual elements in favour or against the candidate, i preferred to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ abstention: no evidence in favour or against the candidate.
in writing. the report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. the president remains mr gabriel bernardino. i therefore abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague roberto gualtieri on the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the text approves the nomination proposed by the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority after hearing the committee on economic and monetary affairs. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the board of supervisors of the eaapp has proposed, following an open selection procedure, to appoint fausto parente as executive director for a term of five years. mr parente is a serious and well-known candidate, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it relates to the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. but i don't know him, and i don't care what he chooses.
in writing. ‒ this report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for a five-year term. however, as i had no information on this application, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin abstained on this vote. the council adopted a decision on the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. without evidence for or against the candidate, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. i did not have any evidence to support or refute this candidate, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. the president remains mr gabriel bernardino. in the absence of any evidence in favour or against the candidate, it is proposed that the vote be abstentive.
in writing. ‒ this report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. since i could not express myself without having the slightest doubt as to the competence and integrity of the candidate, i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of fausto parente as the executive director of the eaapp to replace the current executive director whose term of office expires on 31 march 2016. fausto parente was heard by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the members of this committee approved this nomination proposal by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. ‒ the report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. the president remains mr gabriel bernardino. i disapprove of the proliferation of the many "european authorities" who encroach on the sovereignty of states, but i have no particular hostility towards mr parente. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to give our opinion on the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). this procedure is a testament to the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the bodies dependent on the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of the eaapp for a five-year term. before this appointment, mr parente was heard by the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs in february last, during which he made an opening statement and had to answer questions from members with a view to the exercise of this mandate.
in writing. ‒ the report confirms the appointment of mr fausto parente as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for a five-year term. the president remains mr gabriel bernardino. i choose to abstain on this nomination.
in writing. ‒ this directive clearly falls within the competence of the member states. everything is being done to complicate the procedures for minors. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, an estimated one million children are subject to criminal proceedings. however, there are considerable and worrying differences between member states in the treatment of children involved in these procedures. the rights of the child are not sufficiently guaranteed within the union and have been the subject of numerous judgments by the european court of human rights. for all these reasons, and in order to improve the treatment of children in court, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates that one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the european union, representing 12% of all those subject to criminal proceedings. the report does not mention that a large proportion of juvenile crime is linked to immigration. this directive will make procedures more cumbersome and complicated, and procedural errors more likely. the european union is also working on a common criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states. so i was logically opposed to this new attack on the sovereignty of france... and the other member states.
in writing. ‒ this text gives us an opportunity to welcome europe's intervention. this proposal for a directive is very positive in many respects. the desire to ensure, through common minimum standards, effective and sufficiently uniform access for minors to the right to a fair trial at all stages of the proceedings must be a fundamental right beyond doubt. unfortunately, it is clear that the rights of the child in the various stages of criminal proceedings are not sufficiently guaranteed within the union at present. they have even led to numerous convictions of member states by the european court of human rights. for example, in some countries children do not have the fundamental right to be assisted by a lawyer. this should be a child's inalienable right. i therefore support the general approach of this report and many of its proposals and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which is merely an attempt to create a european criminal law by proposing the introduction of procedural safeguards for children, which already exist in every state that respects the law. while everyone can understand the need for a right to information or the compulsory assistance of a lawyer for minors who are being prosecuted, this directive will only make the procedures more burdensome and complicated, even though such rights are already in force in france. moreover, while the european commission estimates that one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu - 12% of those subject to such proceedings - it fails to note the statistical links between juvenile delinquency and immigration. in view of the commission's attempt to violate one of the three fundamental pillars of our political system, and the naivety of the drafters of this text, i could only vote against it.
in writing. ‒ with this directive, the european union is developing criminal law, an area which falls within the exclusive competence of the member states. the text will also make procedures more cumbersome and complicated and make procedural errors more likely. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to provide safeguards for individuals aged between 18 and 21 years who are prosecuted in criminal proceedings where the alleged offence was committed before the age of 18. the text provides for a number of rights for suspects, such as the right to information, the right to mandatory assistance by a lawyer at every stage of the proceedings and the right to be the subject of a personalised assessment to take better account of the social environment in which the suspect has evolved. through this directive, the european union is beginning to develop a common criminal law, thus violating the principle of subsidiarity in so far as this is a matter for the member states. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to guarantee a fair trial for children under 18 suspected of crime by providing minimum procedural guarantees in all member states. this text first emphasises the need to take into account the best interests of the child. they will now have the right to be accompanied by a lawyer and the holder of parental responsibility (or another appropriate adult) during the proceedings and to have a thorough medical examination. i voted in favour of this text because i consider that children, because of their age and their vulnerability to reoffending, are a public requiring special attention.
in writing. i am pleased that this report, for which i was the rapporteur for the french delegation, has been adopted. with this vote, we in the european parliament have agreed with the council of the eu that the rights of children and minors suspected of crimes should be guaranteed in judicial proceedings. thus, among the rights emphasized are the assistance of a lawyer, their parents, and the need for them to be held separately from adults.
in writing. ‒ this directive tends to make procedures more complex and thus increases the risk of errors. i voted against this text because it is part of the development of a common criminal law, which goes against the powers of the states. finally, the report fails to mention that a large proportion of juvenile crime is linked to immigration. once again, the causes must be dealt with before the consequences.
in writing. ‒ voted against: this directive will make procedures more cumbersome and complicated, and procedural errors more likely. with these acts, the european union is developing a common criminal law, whereas this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, caterina chinnici, on procedural guarantees for minors suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, as it is the first european text to require the establishment of a catalogue of rights, based on minimum standards, to meet the specific needs of these children. these new rules are expected to affect one million children; this is the estimated number of children in formal contact with the police and the judiciary in the eu each year, and until now their protection has varied from one member state to another. this text thus makes it possible to harmonize it and to move forward in the construction of a common area of freedom and justice. it aims to enable children to understand and follow the judicial procedure, to exercise their rights and to prevent reoffending; the european parliament and the council have adopted a number of resolutions on the situation in the middle east, including the right of children to be heard at public hearings, the right to be represented by a lawyer during proceedings, and the detention of children as a last resort. i welcome the adoption of this text, which has not received enough publicity, even though it establishes a fairer model of juvenile justice.
in writing. the directive should apply to suspects or accused persons subject to criminal proceedings who have reached the age of 18 but not yet 21 years, where the offence is alleged to have been committed before the age of 18. a whole series of rights are mentioned, including the right of children to information, the right to legal assistance, the right to be the subject of a personalized study, the right to be examined by a doctor, among others. this directive will make procedures more cumbersome and complicated, and procedural errors more likely. the european union is also working on a common criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states. the european commission estimates that there are one million children subject to criminal proceedings in the european union, or 12% of all those subject to criminal proceedings. the report does not mention that a large part of juvenile crime is linked to immigration. however, many of the rights mentioned in the directive are fundamental rights in a state governed by the rule of law, and these are minors. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms caterina chinnici, on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. this text provides guarantees for the specific needs of minors at all stages of the procedure. the directive allows any minor to be assisted by a lawyer and wants deprivation of liberty to be a sentence of last resort and to be carried out separately from adults. these bases could be a european model. i support these new balanced provisions which give special status to children even if they have broken the law. it is also a matter of preventing reoffending, which proves that containment strategies alone have failed. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ mrs chinnici's report concerns a directive to define common minimum standards in europe for procedural safeguards applicable to children suspected or prosecuted in criminal proceedings. more than one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the eu and only six member states have public bodies specifically dedicated to them. it was therefore necessary to adopt a body of minimum standards adapted to the specific requirements of the child in criminal proceedings. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on procedural safeguards for children suspected or prosecuted in criminal proceedings. to be very precise, these are suspects or accused persons who are the subject of criminal proceedings and who have reached the age of 18 but not yet 21 years, where the offence is presumed to have been committed before the age of 18. of course, their fundamental rights must be guaranteed, as is already the case in all member states. i would mention, among other things, access to a lawyer. however, this commission directive will make the procedures more burdensome and complicated, and procedural errors more likely. the european union is also working on a common criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it attempts to develop the rudiments of a european criminal law for children. but criminal justice must, in my view, be a matter for the sovereignty of the state. the text is also worrying, because every guarantee it contains is accompanied by vague and overly general exceptions. child protection is not a big deal.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal. it concerns persons who are the subject of criminal proceedings for an offence committed before the age of 18 and who are between 18 and 21 years of age at the time of the proceedings. with good intentions, she advocates the adoption of a set of rights for these children, such as the right to information, the right to be the subject of a personalized assessment or the right to be examined by a doctor. however, this directive would make criminal proceedings more burdensome and complicated. moreover, most of the rights mentioned in the text are fundamental rights in a state governed by the rule of law and do not require regulation. the european union is thus once again grossly interfering with the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. - i voted against this directive. it should apply to persons aged 18 years but not yet 21 years, suspected or accused, subject to criminal proceedings, where the offence is alleged to have been committed before the age of 18 years: any child deprived of liberty would have the right to challenge the lawfulness of that deprivation of liberty before a competent, independent and impartial court or authority. this text will make the procedures even more burdensome and complicated and will encourage procedural errors. it is also an attempt by the union to establish a common criminal law, whereas this is normally a matter for the member states. according to the european commission, about 1 million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the union, representing 12% of all those subject to criminal proceedings. moreover, the report fails to mention that a large proportion of juvenile crime is linked to immigration!
in writing. ‒ i reject this directive which seeks to establish a common law, which has so far been the competence of the states. it is as if we wanted to make the procedures more burdensome and complicated in order to make them fairer. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this directive sets out the rights of persons under 21 years of age who are subject to criminal proceedings, where the offence is alleged to have been committed before the age of 18, in particular with regard to questioning, assistance from a lawyer or a doctor. it will make the procedures more burdensome and complicated, and make procedural errors more likely, often leading to unnecessary annulments. the european union is also working on a common criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states. for these reasons it is not desirable to support this text.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the establishment of procedural safeguards for minors suspected or prosecuted in criminal proceedings. it aims to grant special rights before or during interrogation to minors and adults prosecuted for acts committed while they were minors. this directive will make criminal proceedings more burdensome, time-consuming and complicated, and procedural errors more likely. i see it as an attempt to develop a common criminal law for the whole eu, whereas this is a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which is part of the 'procedural rights package'. it aims to define common minimum standards for procedural safeguards applicable to children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. in a european union where legal and judicial cooperation is being strengthened, it is essential to adopt a common basis to guarantee equal rights for all individuals in each member state. such provisions will also make it possible, in the event of a conflict of laws, to guarantee children fewer rights regardless of the choice of the judge.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the agreement reached by parliament on common minimum standards on procedural safeguards for children suspected or prosecuted in criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the criminal status of minors is not a matter for the european union. it is up to member states to decide what measures they want to put in place for suspected or prosecuted children. the text also introduces burdensome procedures which will inevitably lead to a multiplication of procedural errors. finally, many of the rights mentioned in the text are fundamental rights already recognised by all member states. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ this text, which is part of the 'procedural rights package', aims to define common minimum standards on procedural guarantees applicable to children suspected or prosecuted in criminal proceedings. i'm all for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the 'procedural rights' package and aims to define common minimum standards on procedural guarantees for children suspected or prosecuted in criminal proceedings. the agreement reached following the negotiations with the council establishes clear definitions of the child and parental responsibility. it also establishes the right to information for children with specific rules. the final text also enshrines the right of minors to have access to a lawyer to provide them with legal assistance. other rights are also included in the directive, such as the audio-visual recording of the interrogation or the right to a medical examination. in the end, the text is balanced; it aims to ensure that children can understand and follow the legal procedure and to prevent a recurrence.
in writing. ‒ the european commission estimates that one million children are subject to criminal proceedings in the european union, representing 12% of all those subject to criminal proceedings. the report does not mention that a large proportion of juvenile crime is linked to immigration. this directive will also make procedures more cumbersome and complicated, and procedural errors more likely. the european union is also working on a common criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction of procedural safeguards with regard to children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. in the eu, one million children are subject to criminal proceedings which vary from one country to another. nine member states do not have jurisdiction in this area and in others there is no specific training for judges and lawyers. the aim of this directive is to establish common standards to improve access to a fair trial and child-friendly conditions throughout the eu. children must be given special protection in criminal proceedings, they must be informed of the charges against them and their rights, they must be able to have recourse to a lawyer, etc. deprivation of liberty should be used only as a last resort and under certain conditions in accordance with the convention on the rights of the child. ensuring the protection of children in criminal proceedings is important. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the list of expenditure has been extended by the news: that of "migrants", all considered political refugees. in short, the eu's logic is always to increase spending to encourage immigration. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the guidelines for the 2017 budget, but the budget as it stands is not up to the challenges facing europe. our annual budgetary year is extremely tight, because it is confined to a seven-year multiannual financial framework. the union needs a budget that is more political and democratic.
in writing. ‒ further calls on member states to reduce the size of their own budgets in favour of increasing their contributions to the eu budget... worse, the aim is to help the immigrant saints more and more at the expense of the citizens of our respective nations. this is unacceptable!
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed this report, which is a new representation of the european union's 'do as i say, not as i do'. the failure of the juncker plan, subtly admitted but not admitted, gives the social democrat rapporteur jens geier the pretext to lecture the member states on the need to reduce their national budgets and increase their contributions to the eu budget; all this to finance the migrant crisis and to dress up the wounds opened by the eu itself! the report calls for an increase in the ceilings for appropriations from the special instruments, mainly to finance the eur 3 billion in aid to turkey. worse still, the member states which, suffocated by the budgetary austerity imposed on them by the commission, had asked for a reduction in their contribution to the eu budget are being singled out, and are being asked to give more and more to the brussels guru, on the strength of the results we know. a bad faith that has no other purpose than to murder the european nations by squandering their budget on catastrophic policies.
in writing. ‒ this report makes recommendations that have been proposed on many occasions, such as increasing payment appropriations, requiring member states to reduce the size of their budgets in favour of increasing their contributions to the eu budget, an expansionary notion of the union budget, and the novelty of further increasing funding for migrants. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the main guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget. the rapporteur regrets the lack of resources to respond to the current migration crisis and therefore recommends raising the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. as the people of europe work together to meet the budgetary requirements of the european commission, he proposes to increase the contributions of the eu member states. we strongly oppose the 2017 budgetary guidelines set out in this report. it is essential, in a period of economic downturn, to block the increase in the union's budget and to devote all the funds to the benefit of europeans. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report on the broad budgetary guidelines marks the beginning of the annual budgetary procedure for the parliament. the text sets out the different elements that the 2017 budget must address: improving investment, competitiveness and job creation as well as solving the migration and agricultural crises. it is an ambitious budget which the european union needs to meet the various major challenges that lie ahead. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european parliament sets out its political priorities for the allocation of the 2017 budget. accelerating investment to boost growth and jobs and resolving the migration crisis are the key objectives we have advocated. it should be recalled that the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, i.e. the budget for the period indicated, provides for resources to respond to this type of crisis and unforeseen needs. we therefore call for the mobilisation of these financial instruments to guide the european union's action in resolving these unprecedented crises. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i supported this report because it is important, in the midst of the security and migration crisis, to review the multiannual financial framework and to clearly identify the budgetary priorities for 2017 in order to better manage the internal and external crises facing the european union. the union budget is a key resource for managing the recent crises and for meeting needs that were not foreseen during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ this text is a summary of proposals based on the europeanist ideology: increase in payment appropriations, requests to the member states to reduce the size of their budget in favour of an increase in their contributions to the eu budget, an expansionist notion of the eu budget. more recently, the desire to increase funding for migrants is clearly visible. in short, the report proposes ever more expenditure and tax revenues, including a european tax, to finance ever more immigration. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ voted against: an injunction to member states to reduce the size of their budgets in favour of increasing their contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. the 2017 budget will have to face many challenges: the continuing economic and social crisis is compounded by the emergence of new needs (refugee crisis, fight against terrorism) which make the european union a little more fragile today. however, its budgetary capacity remains limited and is under increasing pressure. in voting for this report, i wanted above all to emphasise that the eu budget cannot be regarded as an 'adjustment variable': its consolidation is essential to stimulate investment and allow for a faster economic recovery within the european union. in addition, the eu budget must be able to overcome crises: while it has provided elements for an immediate response to current crises (reception of refugees, agricultural crisis), the eu budget in its current format and proportions does not have the financial means to provide a lasting solution. finally, with the s&ds, i advocated solidarity in europe applied in all its dimensions, something which the countries of the višegrad group, the main beneficiaries of the structural funds but the ones most ready to close their borders and refuse to apply community decisions on aid to refugees, seem to forget.
in writing. this report repeats the refrain that all europeans have been chanting for years: increase in payment appropriations, orders to member states to reduce the size of their budget in favour of an increase in their contributions to the eu budget, expansionist notion of the eu budget, etc. however, the new element is the desire to increase funding for migrants. in other words, more and more expenditure and tax revenues (european taxes, etc.) to finance more and more immigration. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague jens geier's report on the guidelines for the 2017 budget section iii, in which parliament states its political priorities for the 2017 budget. these include the priorities which i support with my political group, the epp, namely stimulating investment for growth, focusing on competitiveness and job creation. particular attention is being paid this year to the management of the refugee crisis. parliament therefore calls for adequate resources and more flexibility in the multiannual financial framework. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out parliament's political priorities for the coming financial year. i voted in favour of this text because it provides a good basis for the priorities for 2017, namely boosting investment for growth, focusing on competitiveness and job creation and finally addressing the challenge of the refugee crisis. this will require adequate resources and more flexibility in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the guidelines for the 2017 budget. the report makes some rather unusual recommendations. the rapporteur believes that national budgets must be reduced in size in favour of an ever more expansionary eu budget which should finance investment. in short, the wrong role for the states, the right one for the eu. the juncker plan is a thinly veiled admission of failure, unable to fill the investment gap in the eu. the report calls for more own resources for the eu and therefore the introduction of a european tax to deal with this... this report repeats the refrain that all europeans have been chanting for years: increase in payment appropriations, demands that the member states reduce the size of their budgets in favour of an increase in their contributions to the eu budget, an expansionist notion of the eu budget. however, the new element is the desire to increase funding for migrants. in short, more and more spending and tax revenues to finance more and more immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls on the member states to cut their budgets in the name of an austerity policy which we can see is failing. he also asks them to increase their contribution to the eu budget to finance ever more immigration!
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to set out the general guidelines for the 2017 budget of the european union. four main lines stand out from the text. first, the request to increase the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework (mff 2014-2020), which is not resistant to the surplus of funding caused by the migratory pressure, and to granting, within this framework, 6 billion euros to turkey. the second demand is to increase the contributions of the member states to the eu budget, which forces them to reduce the size of their national budgets. the third injunction again addresses the migrant crisis and proposes an increase in european aid in this area, which will create a gigantic air appeal and intensify the influx of refugees. finally, the suggestions are to increase the pressure on arrears and outstanding balances, which is prompting the european union to want its own resources, including the possibility of creating a european tax. this text therefore does nothing to solve europe's catastrophic economic situation and actually aggravates it by advocating support for mass immigration, so i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the socialist report is not very original, but it calls for the ceilings for special instruments to be increased, it increases the contributions of the member states to the eu budget, it increases aid to migrants and it increases the pressure on arrears and outstanding payments. in summary, we have here a summary of the europeanist ideas of recent years, which are increasingly putting pressure on the member states in favour of the eu. and there is a clear desire to finance the reception of ever more immigrants, even though europe is already unable to cope.
in writing. ‒ i can only look with tenderness at the melopoeia whispered by the whole of the europeanist caste for years. i note the famous passage in which the member states are asked to strengthen the eu budget by reducing their own. the list has been extended by the news, the flow of "migrants" implied as all political refugees by a tearful publicity that is no longer to be done to the european institutions. in the end, i see the eu's logic as being to increase spending in order to encourage immigration. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to formulate recommendations and general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget. the recommendations are: to increase the ceilings of the special instruments to deal with unforeseen and unanticipated expenditure, in particular those related to the migration crisis and turkey; increase member states' contributions to eu budgets; increase support for migrants for their security and integration; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to increase the eu's own resources and thus introduce a european tax. we are naturally opposed to this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to formulate recommendations and general guidelines for the preparation of the eu budget for 2017. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states' contributions to the eu budget, to increase the possibilities for budgetary flexibility to finance aid for migrants flooding europe and to conclude an agreement with turkey in return for its assistance in the field of migration. the commission has already proposed that the european union should create nothing more than a european tax to finance the eu's way of life and its ambitions. i voted against this text, opposing the growing demands for an increase in the eu budget at the expense of the member states and their citizens, and the demand for a little more help for migrants.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on this report, which is the first stage of the budgetary procedure during which the european parliament informs the commission of the guidelines it wishes to adopt. i have opposed all the provisions in this report which will result in an increase in the budget for the reception of migrants or which call for a revalorisation of the funding for the resettlement of migrants within the european union. for greater efficiency, eu funds should be directed more towards helping countries such as jordan or lebanon, which allow migrants to stay close to their home countries, rather than towards budget increases to welcome them in conditions that remain unworthy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. however, i would like to express my support for parliament's orientation for the 2017 budget year. parliament has made investment in growth, competitiveness and job creation, and the refugee crisis, its three priorities for the year ahead. the adoption of the report will allow parliament to discuss its objectives with the other european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report repeats the refrain that all europeans have been chanting for years: increase in payment appropriations, orders to member states to reduce the size of their budget in favour of an increase in their contributions to the eu budget, expansionist notion of the eu budget, etc. however, the new element is the desire to increase funding for migrants. in other words, more and more expenditure and tax revenues (european taxes, etc.) to finance more and more immigration. it is obviously out of the question for me to support such a project and i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on the guidelines for the 2017 budget section iii, as it sets out the political priorities of parliament for the coming financial year which i fully share: boosting investment through growth, focusing on competitiveness, promoting job creation and addressing the challenges posed by the refugee crisis. however, the budget of the european union should not be regarded by the member states as a simple adjustment variable. on the contrary, i am in favour of this budget being an investment instrument, particularly in response to the current crises. finally, this issue is also linked to the principle of subsidiarity and i call on the european states to assume their responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ halfway through the current programming period (2014-2020), this report is an important political message from parliament to the commission, before the latter presents its preliminary draft budget for the eu in the spring. it takes stock of the past and makes parliament's recommendations on the union's future priorities. the report highlights the role of the union budget as a key resource for responding to the various crises facing the eu. in addition, it introduces flexibility in the budget in the face of situations not initially anticipated during the negotiations of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. the report identifies two major priorities for parliament in 2017: overcoming the economic crisis by boosting public and private investment and supporting smes; and responding to the growing refugee crisis. i therefore voted in favour of this text, because i agree with these political lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out parliament's political priorities for the 2017 budget year. the main objective is to pave the way for economic recovery and job creation. this requires stimulating investment for growth and emphasising competitiveness. programmes such as erasmus+, horizon 2020 and cosme, which are essential to developing social, educational and economic conditions conducive to european growth, also need to be strengthened. we should also confirm our commitment to continue funding the youth employment initiative in order to strengthen it and thus offer more young people the prospect of genuinely entering the labour market. finally, it is a question of establishing a budget which really makes it possible to meet the challenge posed by the refugee crisis. the mobilisation of significant european budgetary resources did not allow the refugee crisis to be dealt with in an effective and sustainable manner in 2015 and 2016. this is why substantial additional financial resources are needed. long-term solutions, based on the principle of solidarity, must be found to address the root causes of migration.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for an increase in payment appropriations, urges member states to reduce the size of their budgets in favour of an increase in their contributions to the eu budget, a well-known europeanist refrain. however, the new element is the desire to increase funding for migrants. in other words, more and more expenditure and tax revenues (european taxes, etc.) to finance more and more immigration. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this annual report from the european parliament gives guidelines for the 2017 budget and aims to establish a preliminary position to influence the commission, which is drawing up the draft budget for the coming year. among the positive points of the report is the reminder of the growing gap between the poorest and richest regions and between eu countries, in order to foster greater cohesion within the european union. the report also stresses the co-decision role of the european parliament and considers that member states' contributions to the union budget should not be taken into account in the calculation of the structural deficit. my group tabled several amendments calling for more investment, particularly in social areas, and for the reception of refugees, especially children, and for a thorough investigation into the 'disappearance' of 10 000 migrant children, and for an analysis of all the measures and projects implemented and financed in the field of migration and their compliance with european and international law. unfortunately, our amendments were largely rejected. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ report on better lawmaking: a wide-ranging programme... but this would require lobbying, because lobbying is too often the source of legislative initiatives. so once again this report is a piece of nonsense wrapped in good feelings: i have spoken out against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which strengthens cooperation between the european institutions so that the drafting of legislation is more transparent. this agreement, concluded between parliament, the council and the commission, should improve regulation on our continent and reduce bureaucracy for our companies, which will simplify their work and give them greater flexibility.
in writing. ‒ this report aligns the ponciffs on the need for ongoing dialogue between stakeholders, the pious vows on the role and effectiveness of impact studies and the enduring promises on transparency. no concrete measures are envisaged to combat lobbying - the pupil in brussels has outstripped his teacher in washington - or to take account of the interest and will of the people. it's an internal kitchen, completely self-centered, without consistency. when we look at the way the ttip (formerly tafta) negotiations are going, the promises of transparency are rather laughable. when we consider the weight of lobbies in the commission, the commitments to assess the impact of legislation through impact studies sound false. when we see the ravages of the existing policies every day, we have little confidence in the future. it is high time that the eurocrats reconsider their position... before the people free themselves from their deadly tutelage.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is nothing but the product of bad faith and/or blindness on the part of the brussels institutions towards the lack of democratic legitimacy of the european union. it is a good thing to follow up the great declarations of intent on the dialogue between the council, the commission and parliament, and it is easy to make incantations for greater transparency and a renewed emphasis on impact studies! the reality is quite different: total opacity regarding the most serious negotiations for the european peoples such as ttip; the european union is governed by lobbies, the real lawyers of multinational corporations and the defenders of foreign interests at the expense of the interests of european nations. finally, when we see the scandalous ineffectiveness of the directives already in place, we think that in brussels, 'better regulation' apparently means negotiation between notorious criminals to determine who will get the biggest share of the spoils.
in writing. ‒ while there is clearly much to complain about in terms of the democratic level of the functioning of these bodies, this report raises only points concerning impact assessments and the necessary transparency. these last points are a source of amusement when one considers the weight of lobbying in the commission and the level of opacity of the tafta negotiations. this report does not call into question the system which has led to the present economic disaster in the european union. i am in favour of returning the legislative power to the people of the member states and therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report contains the aii interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. as chairman of the committee on fisheries, i particularly welcome the creation of the group to negotiate the terms of cooperation on international agreements, of which fisheries agreements are part. it is essential for interinstitutional balance that each institution be able to exercise its rights in the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements. the interinstitutional exchange of views which is now mandatory in the event of a change in the legal basis is a very good initiative. this report rightly recalls the commission's role as facilitator in interinstitutional negotiations. it treats the two branches of the legislative authority in the same way. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to support the new interinstitutional agreement to improve working methods between the european commission, parliament and council. the aim of this agreement is to clarify and increase the transparency of the legislative process in order to make it more democratic. in parliament we are asking for more information to be made available to citizens in the negotiations between the european institutions. the agreement also provides for enhanced assessments to better take into account the impacts, including in terms of financial cost, of the proposed legislation. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. this report aims to promote a policy of 'better lawmaking' between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. to stop the bureaucratic machine that the european institutions can quickly become, it is crucial not to have 'more europe', with ever more restrictive legislation, but a 'better europe', which speaks only when necessary, and which does not burden existing national legislation. i am satisfied with the proposals in the text and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is a step in the right direction in that it improves the visibility and place of the parliament in the european legislative process. the rules are simplified and parliament's rights of access to documents and to meetings, which precede the adoption of commission decisions, are emphasised. as everyone knows, the nerve of the war with finance is information: that of the members for better legislative work, of course, but above all that of the citizens whose representatives we are. this is a real democratic issue.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the good intentions of stakeholder dialogue, the effectiveness of impact assessments and transparency. it is regrettable that no concrete measures are being proposed to combat lobbying or to take account of the will of the people. for all these reasons, and because of my attachment to the sovereignty of the states, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ voted against: no concrete measures are envisaged to combat lobbying or to take account of the interest and will of the people.
in writing. ‒ for more than ten years, the european institutions concerned, the commission, the council and, of course, the european parliament, have been calling for action to "legislate better": clear, simple, coherent legislation with real european added value, respecting the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, based on serious and thorough impact assessments, and regularly evaluated as to whether its objectives have been achieved. it is a very nice speech indeed, one that can only be subscribed to, but which will remain a dead letter. the new agreement virtually omits the involvement of lobbies, which are less anxiously renamed 'stakeholders' and whose considerable - and not always benevolent - role in the drafting of european laws is well known. he talks about transparency, but everyone here knows how difficult it is to have access to important documents concerning the trade negotiations under way, access reserved for a happy few and totally denied to non-registered members. the practice of trilogue negotiations at first reading, which aims at soft consensus to the detriment of genuine democratic debate, is not called into question. however, it often turns the plenary into a mere recording room. i am afraid that european legislation will remain what it is: complex, cumbersome, prolific, often useless and, alas, too often harmful.
in writing. better legislation, certainly, but at the same time respecting a number of democratic principles. that is the meaning i wanted to give to my vote in favour of the resolution on the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. the agreement is a good basis for the development of a new, more open and transparent relationship between the european institutions, in the interests of european citizens, in compliance with the agreements with the social partners. in this debate, the socialists and democrats fought for the cost of non-europe - from a social, environmental, etc. point of view - to be systematically included in impact assessments. these same impact assessments should be seen as a tool to assist decision-making, but in no way can they replace political decisions taken in the democratic process. we also call for greater transparency on the part of the council, whose meetings remain, for the most part, closed, unlike those of the european parliament which are very largely public. finally, we call on the commission to provide a more regular report on the implementation of legislative acts within the eu.
in writing. this report aligns the ponciffs on the need for ongoing dialogue between stakeholders, the pious vows on the role and effectiveness of impact studies and the enduring promises on transparency. no concrete measures are envisaged, only to combat lobbying or to take account of the interests and will of the people. it's an internal kitchen, completely self-centered, without consistency. when we see how the tafta negotiations are going, the promises of transparency are rather laughable. when we consider the weight of lobbies in the commission, the commitments to assess the impact of legislation through impact studies sound false. when we see the ravages of the existing policies every day, we have little confidence in the future. the report does not call anything into question, nor does it even hint at any criticism of the system. there's nothing good about it. the only conclusion that can be drawn from it is that legislative power must be restored to the people of the member states and that the costly efforts to achieve this must be stopped. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague danuta maria hübner on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. the aim of this agreement between the main eu institutions is to improve the planning, quality and transparency of the european legislative process. i support this agreement, which aims to improve the quality of european legislation and to increase citizens' understanding of the legislative process. for example, impact assessments will be generalised and will now take account of administrative burdens. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. the agreement focuses on three different areas: better regulation, interinstitutional relations and the legislative procedure. this agreement is a good basis for the development of a more open and transparent relationship between the european institutions. it also promotes the development of a better legislative agenda. i believe that the european union needs to be made clearer, more transparent and more coherent for our citizens, and this report is helping to do that.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report by my epp colleague danuta hübner on the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council and the commission, drawn up in the committee on constitutional affairs, of which i am a member. this report aims to reinforce the idea that the action of the european institutions must focus on what is useful to citizens. in line with our campaign commitments, we support the action plan launched by jean-claude juncker and frans timmermans, whose idea is 'less regulation for better regulation'. we also call for better upstream consideration of smes in impact assessments and for more transparency in national transposition mechanisms to avoid 'overtransposition', a practice too often implemented by many member states to the detriment of the eu's image as the one responsible, in the eyes of citizens, for normative inflation.
in writing. the interinstitutional agreement is intended to facilitate the work of the three institutions which make up european law (the council requests a text, the commission drafts it, proposes it, and parliament and the council vote on it). without questioning the very content of texts which are increasingly promoting competition and calling for more austerity, an agreement facilitating cooperation between institutions may seem logical. but the commission's language of 'better legislation' is too often reduced to not legislating when it comes to social progress or the protection of workers, and above all to leaving an ever greater place for interest groups and always more upstream. the result is that the commission is increasingly listening to lobbies, particularly on the very question of whether to legislate, which kills any social initiative, and is counting on them to co-write certain texts. in other words, the rules define the meaning of the laws even before they are considered by the representatives of the citizens. although there are some positive elements in this interinstitutional agreement, particularly on transparency, i refused to support a text which is aligned on managerial procedures for making law and on the interests of the biggest brussels lobbies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. this report aligns the ponciffs on the need for ongoing dialogue between stakeholders, the pious vows on the role and effectiveness of impact studies and the enduring promises of transparency. no concrete measures are envisaged, only to combat lobbying or to take account of the interests and will of the people. it's an internal kitchen, completely self-centered, without consistency. when we see how the tafta negotiations are going, the promises of transparency are rather laughable. when we consider the weight of lobbies in the commission, the commitments to assess the impact of legislation through impact studies sound false. when we see the ravages of the existing policies every day, we have little confidence in the future. the report does not call anything into question, nor does it even hint at any criticism of the system. there's nothing good about it. the only conclusion that can be drawn from it is that legislative power must be restored to the people of the member states and that the costly efforts to achieve this must be stopped.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it advocates 'better regulation', dialogue and transparency in a charming way, without daring to tackle the real problems. it does not, for example, provide for any concrete measures to combat lobbying, to improve the transparency of the tafta negotiations or to take account of the will of the european peoples.
in writing. - i voted against this report. indeed, far from calling into question the influence of lobbies on the european commission, the secret negotiations on the transatlantic free trade agreement (tafta) or the disastrous consequences of the directives in place, it proposes the creation of impact studies of legislation, dialogue between the european institutions. it therefore does not call into question the problems associated with this policy of excessive standardisation.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. this unfair and contemptuous report is more a matter of the internal cooking of the european institutions than of negotiation. parliament, the commission and the council decide among themselves to establish a more intensive dialogue, without any concrete or even realistic proposals. he calls for more transparency, while denying access to certain ttip documents to members of parliament, more objectivity without fighting lobbying, and better representation without taking into account the interests and will of the people. nothing positive comes out of this report.
in writing. ‒ the functioning of the european institutions is very complex, which is why greater transparency is needed. the original defect in this operation is, of course, the absence of a legislative initiative by the european parliament. but the introduction of this missing piece of the institutional puzzle requires a revision of the treaties which the member states are blocking for the time being. the interinstitutional agreement (commission, council, parliament) reached on 8 december is a small step towards greater transparency in the decisionmaking process and greater involvement of the european parliament, but it should be supported. parliament and the council will be consulted when drawing up the commission's annual work programme, parliament will be consulted whenever the commission wishes to withdraw a legislative proposal, and whenever the council wishes to amend a legal basis, in the course of a legislative procedure. parliament also obtained systematic access to meetings of experts, the commission and national experts. the hübner report endorses this agreement as a good basis, adds requests for evaluation and, above all, recalls that the council must be subject to the same transparency requirements as the other two institutions. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ it is not even tempting to be lulled by the aftermath that sings of this report. we would like to legislate better, but it seems that this implies at least two things in the light of the present situation. first, we must get the pressure groups involved, because they are at least the starting point of legislative initiatives. i believe, in particular, that the second part is that the bias they instil obstructs reality. it is not a question of sitting idly by and watching studies presented by courtiers. it is incumbent upon politicians to take account of the reality of the situation. the disastrous consequences of most directives on the population are not to be mentioned, except that they denote a forced pedagogy and ultra-liberalism. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aligns the points on the need for permanent dialogue between the parties between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. the report does not contain any concrete measures to combat lobbying and to take account of the interests of the people. it's not consistent at all. when we see the negotiating procedures in the context of tafta and the lack of democratic respect for them, we can only worry that no criticism will come out of this report. we are voting against this report, which is against the only real solution to the technocratic tyranny of brussels: the return of legislative power to the people.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission. the report does not question the undemocratic functioning of the current european legislative process: no tool for direct citizen participation, no brake or control on the over-regulation of our smes and our citizens, no increased control on lobbying activities with the commission and the various eu bodies, no demand for transparency in the negotiation of international agreements, notably absent, the scandal of the concealment of the working documents of the tafta, no reassurance of the paramount role of national parliaments. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of an agreement to replace the 2003 interinstitutional agreement. i particularly support the provisions to make national transposition mechanisms more transparent in order to avoid as far as possible the over-transposition of european directives, which is damaging to economic sectors in certain states such as, for example, french agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the institutional agreement on 'better lawmaking' reached with the council and the european commission. the agreement should improve regulation, institutional relations and legislative procedures. i also find the responses given by the commission and the council to the concerns we raised satisfactory.
in writing. ‒ this report aligns the ponciffs on the need for ongoing dialogue between stakeholders, the pious vows on the role and effectiveness of impact studies and the enduring promises on transparency. no concrete measures are envisaged, only to combat lobbying or to take account of the interests and will of the people. it's an internal kitchen, completely self-centered, without consistency. when we see how the tafta negotiations are going, the promises of transparency are rather laughable. when we consider the weight of lobbies in the commission, the commitments to assess the impact of legislation through impact studies sound false. when we see the ravages of the existing policies every day, we have little confidence in the future. the report does not call anything into question, nor does it even hint at any criticism of the system. there's nothing good about it. the only conclusion that can be drawn from it is that legislative power must be restored to the people of the member states and that the costly efforts to achieve this must be stopped. i am of course voting against this indignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this institutional agreement, which will replace the 2003 agreement and which provides for more democratic long-term planning, a new database of planned european legislation and more information for the press and the public on negotiations between the various eu institutions. i am pleased that this text has been adopted, because it will simplify procedures at european level, strengthen cooperation between member states and institutions and, above all, and this is the most important thing, make the union more accessible to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which provides for an agreement between the three main institutions of the european union, namely the parliament, the council and the commission, with the aim of improving the planning, quality and transparency of the european legislative process. for example, the three institutions are committed to carrying out more comprehensive and balanced impact assessments of european legislation. an analysis of the consequences for smes and regions, but also in terms of competitiveness and administrative burdens, will have to be provided in addition to the analysis of the economic, environmental and social impacts already in place. in addition, the institutions have committed themselves to including in these new analyses the costs of 'non-europe', i.e. to know how much it would cost to have 28 different national laws or no laws at all, rather than a common european law. i supported this report because it provides for meps and ministers to be involved more upstream in the development of the eu's long-term priorities. the three institutions also agreed to make the informal tripartite negotiations, known as 'trilogues', more transparent, in particular through clear and joint communication after the agreements.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the need for ongoing dialogue between stakeholders, the role and effectiveness of impact studies and the need for transparency, sound objectives but completely out of step with reality. no concrete measures are envisaged to combat lobbying or simply to take account of the general interest. the report does not call anything into question, nor does it even hint at any criticism of the system. at the time of the ttip negotiations, it is rather ridiculous to see such a text under consideration. i therefore voted against this democratic sham.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the 'cooperation' agreement with philip morris is a great victory for us socialists and radicals, who are at the forefront of the fight against the tobacco lobby in europe. the agreement expired in july 2016 and there was a question of renewal. at our initiative, the european parliament took a position against such a renewal of the agreement. the latter is contrary to article 5.3 of the who framework convention on tobacco control, which entered into force in 2005 and to which the european union is a signatory. this article calls for the strictest possible limitation of interactions with the tobacco industry and for full transparency. we are proposing other tools to effectively combat illicit tobacco trade, such as traceability. we also demand that cigarette manufacturers produce no more than the legal market can absorb. the 700 000 premature deaths a year in the european union warrant a relentless fight against these companies that flout public health and that - by the millions of euros they divert from the member states' budgets - finance an army of lobbyists to preserve their pensions and the remuneration of their shareholders.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, although imperfect, aims to terminate the existing agreement between the european commission and the philip moris international consortium. these agreements to combat the distribution of contraband cigarettes on the european market cannot be supported for the following reasons: despite the agreements, the european commission reports large quantities of contraband goods; who calls for the strict minimum of government interactions with the tobacco industries, which should be subject to full transparency; the agreement is in contradiction with the who framework convention on tobacco control signed by the 28 member states and the eu, which requires that the tobacco industry's commercial and other interests not be influenced in the formulation of public policy; for the sake of transparency. that is why i voted in favour of the joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the resolution preventing the renewal of the agreements signed in 2004 with philip morris. what is it ? in exchange for eur 2 150 000 000, the commission and the member states undertook to put an end to legal proceedings against cigarette manufacturers concerning customs duties lost as a result of trafficking and smuggling, and subject to their commitment to combating these practices. but these commitments are neither credible nor effective. on the contrary, the continuation of this kind of trafficking is a source of financial support for criminal networks. moreover, the tax loss due to these trafficking activities is estimated at eur 10 000 000 000. it would therefore have been a scandalous nonsense to pursue this agreement. we put an end to it.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support the request not to renew the tobacco agreement with philip morris international (pmi), which expires in july 2016 and was established in 2014 to fight smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes. i wanted to ask the european commission in particular to take up its responsibilities in respect of the transparency of the negotiations it is conducting with the tobacco sector. questions are also raised about the links between the commission and olaf and the tobacco industry. the eu is a leader in tobacco control and has signed the who framework convention on tobacco control. the pmi agreement was in complete contradiction to the stated health ambitions. finally, we reiterate our call on the commission and the council to immediately cease its contacts with pmi or other tobacco manufacturers on the possible extension of tobacco agreements and to refrain from concluding any similar agreements in the future; a request for common sense considering the possibilities of conflicts of interest and the need to preserve the independence of bodies which are responsible for several areas of public services, including health.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted a resolution calling for the agreement between the european commission and philip morris to be terminated. under this agreement, the tobacco industry pays a considerable sum of money to the union to finance the fight against illicit trafficking in tobacco products. i believe this agreement creates a conflict of interest. on the one hand, the european commission has to ensure that the anti-tobacco directive is implemented, and on the other hand, it receives money from the tobacco manufacturers. moreover, philip morris is questioning the anti-smoking directive, making it a dubious partner in the fight against the smuggling of tobacco products. i am strongly opposed to this agreement and have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to oppose the european commission's decision to extend the tobacco agreements, in particular with the manufacturer philip morris. in the fight against trafficking and counterfeiting, the european union signed agreements with four manufacturers under which they agreed to pay the eu and its member states a total of usd 2.15 billion in exchange for the termination of legal proceedings against them. the tobacco industry has also committed itself to implementing measures against smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco. with my colleagues from the french delegation of the epp group, i strongly opposed the extension of these agreements, considering on the one hand that an obvious lack of transparency does not allow us to prove the effectiveness of these agreements, and considering on the other hand that, in view of the health issue linked to the consumption of cigarettes, the fight against trafficking and counterfeiting should be conducted at the level of the member states and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the extension and renewal of the agreement between the european union and philip morris international (pmi). i think that this type of agreement is unacceptable because it is tantamount to delegating control of tobacco products to the tobacco manufacturers themselves, which can create a risk of conflicts of interest. the eu also has a role to play in the fight against the spread of the virus, and the fight against the spread of the virus. these agreements also lack transparency. i would also like to make it clear that the termination of this agreement will not lead to a legal vacuum that would undermine the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products. the protocol to combat illicit trade in these products contains very clear and effective provisions at both member state and international level. the terms of this protocol provide for a five-year deadline for the implementation of a monitoring and traceability mechanism independent of the tobacco industry, but these provisions can be implemented without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the renewal of a cooperation agreement concluded in 2004 by the member states, which provided for compensation of $1.25 billion over 12 years for the philip morris cigarette manufacturer. this rejection is a victory. it is in line with article 5.3 of the who framework convention on tobacco control (to which the european union is a signatory) which calls for the strictest possible limitation of interactions with the tobacco industry and for full transparency. moreover, the cooperation agreement no longer reflects the new realities of the illicit trade in cigarettes. this is a strong signal to the cigarette lobby which is constantly undermining the implementation of the eu tobacco directive (which is to be transposed by 2016). it should be noted that tobacco is the leading cause of death in europe, with almost 650 000 deaths each year. passive smoking, despite the ban on smoking in public places in some eu countries, remains a scourge, with 19 000 deaths a year. tobacco-related pollution is also affecting the planet. a cigarette butt takes about 12 years to decompose.
in writing. ‒ this text calls on the european commission to take up its responsibilities in the field of transparency. he also called for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism. the resolution also stresses that the union's public health policies should not be influenced by commercial interests. for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the renewal of the agreement on the fight against cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting signed 12 years ago between the european union and philip morris international. if i remember correctly, this agreement was the result of a rather sordid negotiation and a benefit for the industry: the eu withdrew the complaint it had lodged against the cigarette manufacturer, suspected of a minimum of complacency towards the smuggling of its own cigarettes and of money laundering; in return, philip morris agreed to pay $1.2 billion over 12 years, 10% of which to the european union, and improved traceability of its products. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is reportedly benefiting from this money, which is a real mix of the two! the commission itself admits that it is difficult to assess the causal link between the development of the illegal cigarette market, which today mainly concerns unbranded products, and the agreement in question. so it's thin and the deal's become useless. especially since the regulatory environment has changed. to use the excellent analogy of my colleague josé bové, working with the tobacco industry to fight, allegedly, against smuggling is like entrusting the fight against organised crime to al capone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which opposes the renewal of the 2004 agreement between philip morris international (pmi), the european union and its member states, under which the cigarette manufacturer undertook to pay them eur 1 billion a year in aid to combat the counterfeiting of pmi tobacco products. although i am very keen to combat smuggling, which is a source of funding for certain criminal groups, i am firmly opposed to the renewal of this agreement. firstly, because according to the commission working document of 24 february 2016, the reduction of the smuggling of pmi products did not lead to an overall reduction in the number of illicit products on the union market. secondly, and above all, because i do not think that this agreement is ethical, since there cannot be a convergent interest between the tobacco industry and public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution strongly condemning the cooperation agreements concluded between the european commission and the tobacco industry. these agreements actually lead to the delegation of control of counterfeiting and smuggling of cigarettes to the cigarette manufacturers themselves. this is an unacceptable situation, which could create serious conflicts of interest within the european commission, whereas the tobacco directive adopted in 2014 and the conventions of the world health organisation prohibit such an obscure link with the tobacco industry. the european parliament has thus sent a strong message which i hope the commission will take to heart.
in writing. the agreement between the european commission and philip morris international expires in july 2016 and i voted against its renewal. the continuation of this agreement does not seem justified for a number of reasons. since the signing of the agreement in 2004, the context for tobacco control has changed considerably. the 2014 tobacco products directive proposes new tools, such as product traceability, to effectively combat cigarette trafficking. who has also put in place a framework convention that the eu could ratify if it really wanted to fight smuggling and counterfeiting. in addition, the funds collected by the commission and the member states were not subject to any budgetary planning. it would have been legitimate to spend that money on tobacco control or public health policies. but, there's no way of knowing what's been done with it. finally, no visible results have been observed in terms of a decrease in cigarette traffic. these agreements are therefore very problematic and the opacity in which they are negotiated does not add anything to the file. it is now up to the commission to take parliament's opinion into account.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the renewal of an agreement concluded in 2004 between the european commission and the cigarette manufacturer philip morris international (pmi) to combat smuggling and counterfeiting. the european union is still very particular about regulating state aid and fighting conflicts of interest affecting european legacy companies. surprisingly, it allows the world's leading cigarette manufacturer to lead the fight against smuggling while, at the same time, the volume of low-priced products has exploded in the parallel market. if there are no results, how can we continue to encourage this agreement?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the agreements between the european commission and the tobacco industry (the 'pmi' agreement) to combat counterfeiting and smuggling of cigarettes. the tobacco industry is responsible for combating smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes and is therefore responsible for the control of tobacco products. this leads to a conflict of interest. yet it is a serious public health hazard. this practice must therefore be brought to an end. the union can fight smuggling, which costs it more than eur 10 billion a year, on its own. that resolution was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution concerned the renewal or not of a cooperation agreement signed in 2004 between the european union and philip morris to reduce illicit trade in tobacco within the union. i have been particularly opposed to the renewal of this agreement for a number of reasons. first, because the illicit tobacco trade is partly organized by the tobacco manufacturers themselves. secondly, because we now have the appropriate tools to fight this trafficking with the protocol to the who convention against illicit trade in tobacco and the 2014 tobacco directive. the focus should therefore be on the effective implementation of these texts rather than on the renewal of the agreement. and because this agreement would have allowed philip morris to continue its small business quietly under the guise of respectability. by voting against the renewal of this agreement, the european parliament was able to resist the very aggressive lobbying of the cigarette manufacturers which was manifested until the last moment. let us hope that the commission will do the same so that it does not renew this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted, with a very large majority of meps, in favour of a resolution calling on the european commission not to renew its cooperation agreements with philip morris international in the fight against cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting. i welcome the approval of this resolution by the european parliament. in fact, despite a first agreement between 2004 and 2016, the volume of low-priced, unbranded products - therefore not covered by the agreement - increased on the parallel market. these agreements are unacceptable because they amount to delegating control of tobacco products to the tobacco companies themselves and they pose a real risk of conflicts of interest. in this respect, they appear to us to be in breach of the tobacco directive adopted in 2014 and the who framework convention on tobacco control. the french delegation of the epp group did not vote as the epp group did! we opposed the renewal of this agreement between the european commission and the american cigarette giant, contrary to the official line of the group.
in writing. on 9 march, parliament voted against the renewal of an agreement to combat smuggling and counterfeiting signed with the cigarette manufacturer philip morris. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat counterfeiting in exchange for guarantees of traceability on cigarettes and a financial aid of €1 billion. the house also called for the eu to be able to take action against the use of illicit drugs, and called for the eu to be able to take action against the use of illicit drugs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. i have of course supported this position of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the tobacco agreement. in the early 2000s, the philip morris international (pmi) consortium was charged with organising the smuggling of cigarettes from the former yugoslavia. in july 2004, pmi entered into an agreement with the european union whereby pmi undertook not to sell cigarettes on the wholesale market of third countries. in return, the eu has committed itself to combating the smuggling of counterfeit cigarettes by ensuring cooperation between the customs services of the member states and pmi. the agreement is about to expire and the question of renewing it is therefore being raised. i'm against it. the commission alone conducts the negotiations, with closed meetings and a minimum of documents made public. renewal of the agreements would send a counterproductive message, implying that the eu is engaging in inappropriate interactions with the tobacco industry. this text focuses a lot on the public health aspect. while the added value of this argument should be emphasised, it would have been preferable if the resolution had also paid more attention to transparency and the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it underlines that eu public health policies should not be influenced by the tobacco industry.
in writing. ‒ as a world leader in the fight against tobacco, the european union, for reasons of credibility and transparency, had an interest in not renewing the tobacco agreement concluded with philip morris international in 2004 (pmi partly financed olaf (european anti-fraud office) and in return the european union committed itself to fighting cigarette smuggling). thus, this agreement supported the lobbying activities carried out by pmi and by commercial entities in general. it also went against the who (world health organization) anti-smoking policy signed by all 28 member states. although the text focuses mainly on public health rather than on the fight against fraud and transparency, it puts an end to this agreement. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in 2004, the eu concluded a cooperation agreement with the multinational philip morris to combat illicit trade in tobacco products. under the terms of the agreement, philip morris will pay the sum of $1.25 billion over 12 years to the budgets of the member states (90%) and the european commission (10%). the agreement expires in july 2016, and there is a question of whether it can be renewed. however, this is contrary to the who framework convention, which calls for the strictest possible limitation of interactions with the tobacco industry and for full transparency. moreover, the provisions of the agreement are outdated by the new realities of the illicit trade in cigarettes. the union adopted a tobacco products directive in 2014 to combat illicit trade in tobacco products. philip morris has made many attempts to prevent the implementation of this directive. for all these reasons and in view of the health and safety hazards of the illicit trade in tobacco, i am voting against the renewal of the cooperation agreement with philip morris.
in writing. ‒ these different motions for resolutions relate to the renewal of the agreements concluded between the eu via the european commission and the philip morris international (pmi) tobacco consortium, which are due to expire in july 2016. in 2004, pmi entered into an agreement with olaf under which pmi undertook not to sell third country cigarettes destined for the eu on the wholesale market (after being caught smuggling). in return, the eu committed itself to combating cigarette smuggling by ensuring cooperation between the customs services of the member states and the company (training for customs officers, financing of detection equipment, provision of counterfeiting experts). the european commission recognises that these agreements have not produced satisfactory results, as smuggling is now more important than ever; these agreements are not transparent and parliament is not involved in the negotiations with the tobacco industry; olaf is therefore partly funded by the tobacco industry, which may be corrupting eu public health policies via commercial interests. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolutions proposing not to renew these agreements with the tobacco industry (gue, greens, s&d, efdd).
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for the renewal of the agreements between the european commission and the tobacco industry to combat counterfeiting and smuggling of cigarettes. these agreements directly give the cigarette manufacturers the power to control tobacco products, which contradicts the 2014 tobacco directive on the one hand, but also the who framework convention. i'm therefore opposed to their re-election.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the decision of parliament to ask for the non-renewal of agreements with the tobacco industry in the context of the fight against cigarette trafficking. the agreements aim to delegate control of tobacco products to the industry itself. i am particularly pleased that parliament has therefore chosen to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for more transparency, strongly challenges the tobacco industry's funding of olaf and the weight of commercial interests in eu public health decisions. the latter point is also valid in many other areas than tobacco... that is why i am voting in favour of this text which is critical of the european union and which clearly highlights some of its most serious shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the renewal of the anti-trafficking agreement concluded by the european commission with the cigarette manufacturer philip morris international in 2004, which will expire in july 2016. although the agreement is aimed at combating smuggling, its effectiveness may be questioned. the agreement also poses a risk of conflict of interest, as part of the funding of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) comes from the cigarette manufacturer. i therefore invite the commission to work on the practical implementation of the tobacco products directive adopted in 2014.
in writing. ‒ since 2004, the member states and the commission have had a cooperation agreement with philip morris to combat illicit trade in tobacco products. they get $1.25 billion over 12 years and in return, they drop all lawsuits against philip morris. the socialist and democratic group firmly opposed the renewal of this cooperation agreement, which was coming to an end, and obtained a decision from parliament to that effect. it was in contravention of article 5.3 of the who framework convention on tobacco control, which calls for limiting interactions with tobacco companies. moreover, this agreement was far removed from the realities of the market which is beyond its reach. other tools exist to combat illicit tobacco trade and are provided for in the 2014 directive and the who protocol against illicit tobacco trade: traceability, production of quantities absorbable by the legal market. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which opposes the renewal of an agreement concluded in 2004 between the european commission and philip morris, the world's leading cigarette manufacturer, to combat smuggling and counterfeiting. this agreement established a conflict of interest relationship: philip morris provided financial resources to the european union anti-fraud office, and in return, fought against the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products. apart from ethical issues, the effectiveness of such agreements is questionable in view of the increase in the trade in cheap white cigarettes. the non-extension of this agreement is in line with the principles of the tobacco directive adopted in 2014 and avoids any conflict of interest situation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the 2014 tobacco products directive, which provides for a number of instruments to combat smuggling. it is also crucial that member states ratify the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control which obliges parties to protect their public health policies from the commercial interests of the tobacco industry.
in writing. ‒ the european socialists are determined to fight the tobacco lobby. in 2004, the commission and the member states concluded a 'cooperation' agreement with philip morris international, which had committed to pay €1.2 billion over 12 years to compensate for the damage caused by the illicit tobacco trade in europe. the agreement expires in july and the european parliament has voted to not renew it. the tobacco industry's funding of public institutions is an anomaly which we had to correct, since it contravenes the framework convention of the world health organization. moreover, this agreement no longer corresponds to illegal tobacco practices, since we are seeing an increase in the production of 'cheap whites', that is to say unsealed cigarettes produced outside the european union. while philip morris has used all its lobbying power to fight the 2014 tobacco directive, and the company is not backing down from any obstacles to its transposition, we refuse to renew this agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of tobacco use.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the regulation of the tobacco trade. smuggling in this area is estimated to cost member states up to €10 billion in unpaid taxes, often to fund criminal activities. several cooperation agreements now require the tobacco industry to set up product controls and monitoring and to limit sales according to demand. these agreements also contain provisions which are now incompatible with european legislation on the presentation and sale of cigarette packets. one of the agreements expires in july 2016. while this agreement may have been useful at the time it was concluded in 2004, the significant changes that have occurred in the regulatory framework no longer justify its renewal. the elements relating to illicit trade in tobacco will in any case be covered by the tobacco products directive and the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control. i voted against the renewal of such an agreement, which could be derogated from, and for the report.
mr president, i am referring to rule 164 on personal matters. i was informed that during the votes the president of the sitting, who was none other than yourself, mr president, in response to my insistent request for a recall of the rules of procedure, had said that he would have tranquilizers at my disposal if i did not calm down. let me say, mr president, with all the respect i have for you and your office, that i find the expression rather derogatory. but i assure you right now, i am not asking for any sanctions against mr schulz. i personally recognize freedom of speech. i simply wanted to point out, by this recall to the rules of procedure, that article 22 of our rules of procedure on the office of president, and articles 165 and 166 on the president's disciplinary powers, certainly allowed you to have a member expelled or punished for seriously disturbing the sitting, but did not allow you in any way, without even hearing him, to have a member expelled who, at the time you took this decision, was not disturbing the sitting in any way, without having heard him and without leaving him the possibility of clearing himself of the accusations you were making against him, which seems to me, in any case, whatever one may think of his words, quite contrary to the human rights that this parliament is proposing to exhibit throughout the world.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first like to congratulate you on this resolution, the first since 2004. eritrea is one of the worst dictatorships in the world, north korea in africa, an open-air prison, a country from which young people flee by the thousands to escape military service which is an indefinite slavery and whose diaspora is blackmailed. in 2011, eritrea unilaterally decided to sever its relations with the european union. the european union is obsessed with the issue of migration and now wants to take them back. where is european aid going? there are no state structures other than security. no ngo can work there. how will the aid reach the population? how can electrification projects be implemented without serving the interests of a few multinational companies? what political dialogue with leaders who have just declared that the european union's aid will have no impact on the duration of national service, contrary to their petty promises? what guarantees are there for refugees when they claim to want to train eritrean border guards who, according to the un, are compromised in human trafficking? all this will do nothing to reduce poverty or reduce the stress of the population, nor the tension in the region, quite the contrary.
mr president, the situation in eritrea is critical. every month, thousands of eritreans flee their country because of the many human rights violations that occur there. the report of the united nations inquiry into the matter, as well as the statements of the un special rapporteur on the human rights situation in eritrea, are worrying in this respect. the members of the committee on development drew the attention of the european commission and the council to the excessive number of human rights violations and abuses in eritrea, as part of our democratic control of the national indicative programmes of the acp countries receiving edfs. i am very sorry that the recommendations of our committee were not heeded. respect for and defence of human rights are founding values of the european union. we cannot compromise on their respect. the european union must stand by the people of eritrea, and it is therefore crucial that human rights violations be closely monitored and that appropriate measures be taken to put an end to them. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply say that it is up to the eritrean government to take its part in the fight against human rights violations. it is up to us in parliament to have our own demands on the aid we are giving to eritrea.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the reports in the european parliament are certainly one after the other and very similar. in its expansionist drive, the european union always puts forward two requirements which seem to be the main condition for the admission of new member states: membership of nato, whose existence is no longer justified since the dissolution of the warsaw pact, and the promotion of gender ideology, with its cortege of communitarian demands. paragraph 22 of the resolution calls for the eu to follow the alleged model open quotation marks "in matters of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity", a vague concept that can be used to justify the delusions of clearly disturbed ideologues. but your obsession is blinding you to the real problems facing the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. you talk about the roma those bands of happy troubadours that you wish to see everywhere except, of course, in the gardens of your secondary residences , but not a word about the albanians of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the latter, however, constitute a minority whose population is constantly growing and whose demands threaten the stability of the country, especially since the self-proclaimed independence of kosovo. it was on the border of this historically serbian territory that the albanians of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia started violent riots in may and june. finally, as regards the problem of the migratory wave, which affects us all, i would like to welcome the recent measures taken by the authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. by attending the latest visegrád group summit, president george ivanov showed that he trusts officials in budapest more than bureaucrats in brussels to stem the flow of immigration to europe.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, your enlargement policy is still pitting the west against the east. every time a problem arises, it is the flight forward and the problems remain intact, as is the case, for example, with the immigration channels run by organized crime in montenegro. your western policy is permanent anschluss in the name of the european people, which does not exist, in favour of a pro-us, pro-nato oligarchy which does exist, against the european peoples and against a united continental europe. the only way to get things back on track is to have a split, a rupture, in our own country, against this europe: the danish referendum, where the 'no' vote won, the dutch referendum on ukraine, the hungarian referendum, the future referendum on brexit and, tomorrow, france. your europe, those who want to enter it, are the despotic turkey, the narco-state in kosovo, the kleptocracy in montenegro. the historical and democratic states, on the other hand, are questioning and even wanting to get out of it. your europe, organized criminal networks are taking control of it with turkey, which has already subjugated you. your europe? a field of ruins, because in the name of europe you have betrayed europe, the worst of betrayals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have the greatest respect for the montenegrin people who, in 1912, dared to declare war on the ottoman empire and expelled it from our continent. nevertheless, we regret his decision, taken in the margins and under questionable conditions, to separate from another people, the serbian people. as for this report, in addition to its usual lax formulas, it contains dubious insertions aimed at recognizing the independence of the pseudo-state of kosovo or dictating montenegro's foreign policy, forbidding it any privileged links with russia and, above all, endorsing its entry, which is highly questionable, into this machine for crushing the peoples of nato. this report is inherently perverse, and we denounce it.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i hope my colleagues have had time to get into the chamber, because i would like to begin by thanking very warmly my fictitious colleagues and the teams of commissioner andriukaitis who have worked with me on this dossier. with over 1 000 amendments and almost 150 articles, it was a titanic task, which we accomplished as a team, in a spirit of cooperation and compromise which i very much appreciated. this was necessary in view of the important issues involved in this legislative revision. with the world health organization warning that the world may be heading for a post-antibiotic era, where antibiotic resistance kills more people each year than cancer, it was time to take decisive action and get to the root of the problem. the fight against antibiotic resistance must indeed start on the farm. the report calls for a ban on the purely preventive use of antibiotics, for restricting mass treatment to very specific cases, for a ban on the veterinary use of antibiotics critical for human medicine and for an end to the online sale of antibiotics, vaccines and psychotropic products. with these measures, we hope to reduce the amount of antibiotics that end up on consumers' plates. however, we must not reduce the therapeutic arsenal of veterinarians. they are responsible professionals, who we must trust. they are best placed to choose the most appropriate treatment for the circumstances. this regulation is designed to facilitate their work and not to over-regulate a profession which has already demonstrated its commitment to high ethical rigor. it should also be stressed that there is a real problem of availability of medicines on the veterinary market. to protect animal health, the quality of treatment must be improved and the use of medicinal products not authorised for placing on the market reduced. to do this, it is absolutely necessary to encourage research and innovation in this sector. our report is therefore very ambitious in this respect. it proposes extending certain periods of commercial exclusivity, in particular for medicines intended for minor species, in order to create strong incentives for research. the burden of administrative procedures, particularly in terms of pharmacovigilance, is another obstacle to the marketing of innovative products. on the basis of the commission's proposals, we have therefore revised certain provisions in order to create a new pharmacovigilance system which is more flexible, more efficient and less bureaucratic. accelerated procedures must also allow laboratories to react quickly to, for example, animal disease without compromising our quality and safety standards, which are among the highest in the world. finally, this new regulation must first and foremost serve the interests of farmers and herders, whose present difficulties we are aware of and who will be the first to be affected by this text. the rules in this legislation are not intended to stigmatize them, but to help them and to take better care of their herds. i wanted in particular to ensure, with our colleagues in the committee on agriculture and the farmers' unions, that these new rules are applicable on the ground and do not add to the administrative burden they are already suffering from. in conclusion, the main challenge was threefold: protection of animal health and therefore of human health, the fight against antibiotic resistance and the competitiveness of our farms and our veterinary medicines industry, objectives which may seem contradictory, but which we have managed to perfectly reconcile in this legislative report. i now wish we were wasting no more time. parliament is ready. the council is in the ballpark and i would be delighted to hear from my colleagues.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, after lengthy negotiations led by our colleague françoise grossetête, whom i warmly thank for her work and search for consensus, we still have to debate a very sensitive text. despite our compromises, i still have some reservations. first, animals that have been subjected to clinical trials should not be reintroduced into the food chain. when you accept a precautionary time limit, you also accept a risk. we cannot continue to have this risk in the area of food safety. the commission has also proposed that the sale of veterinary medicinal products online be subject to more stringent rules. medicines that require a prescription from a veterinarian or a qualified professional should not be sold on the internet, and i stress this point. this restriction preserves two pillars of the sector: on the one hand, the health network provided by our veterinarians, whose action must be supported and the profession protected. it is thanks to these veterinarians that the consumption of antibiotics in france has been reduced, in particular; the second is the quality of our livestock, which we cannot sell off by deregulation, which encourages counterfeiting and multiple deliveries because of the lack of control. finally, i am opposed to allowing meat from animals treated by professionals other than veterinarians to be exported within the internal market. we have had too many food crises linked to the lack of treatment and deregulation of the veterinary medicines sector. so let us be vigilant and cautious.
madam president, congratulations to mrs grossetête, who has indeed done a very good job and has been very open about the fact that we absolutely have to limit antibiotic resistance, because there is really a link between the use of antibiotics and the increase in bacterial resistance. i therefore note very positive things: the ban on the sale of antibiotics on the internet, the tightening of the ban on the prophylactic use of veterinary medicines, the stricter control of the metaphylactic use, i.e. not treating the whole herd when there is only one sick animal, and, at the same time, the list reserved for humans, the so-called 'reserve antibiotics'. i would like to stress two or three things. we really need to promote alternatives. we can reduce the use of antibiotics, but we must also increase it - and here i support the amendment by my colleague martin häusling - homeopathy. at the same time - and it is a pity that we have not spoken about this - we need to increase research on phago-therapy, that is, the killing of certain bacteria with bacteriophages. i am thinking of salmonella in a very large number of farms, which are subject to this problem, and also the use of antibiotics in aquatic environments, because there are more and more salmon farms. the problem is that there is absolutely no way to control antibiotics in the open.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would first like to thank the colleagues who have spoken in the debate this evening, in particular for their support. i would like to say that, on the whole, there is a feeling of satisfaction with the content of this report. i must say that this is the result of teamwork: it is not just my report, but it is really parliament's report. i would therefore like to thank in particular all the fictitious rapporteurs who have taken part in many meetings. we had some very complex subjects. it was necessary to take account of the particularities of certain member states, while always following this guideline, which was indeed - as you all acknowledged - the fight against antimicrobial resistance. i shall not go into detail on this point, because the commissioner has just mentioned it again, but it is fundamental. at the same time, we really had to consider supporting innovation, because we have a severe shortage of veterinary medicines. so we have been constantly trying to balance this fight against antimicrobial resistance with the need to support innovation, to provide for the protection of commercial data, but in a differentiated way for major or minor species, or even very specific species, like bees for which we have decided to provide protection for twenty years, because we have a real problem in this respect. on-line sales: of course, veterinary medicines are allowed, except for antibiotics and immunological or psychotropic products. so we have really tried to include everything that could be important in this regulation on veterinary medicines. i would like to say that we have also taken into account the environmental impact - this was mentioned by one of our colleagues. if i have a message to send now to conclude - i really appeal to all of you - it is that we need a good majority for this report, because that would allow us to put pressure on the council to waste as little time as possible in negotiating with it. my fear is that the council is treating this with a little negligence, taking its time and not really feeling concerned. that would be very serious because it's an animal health problem and it's a human health problem. if you give your massive support to this report, we can put pressure on the council!
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, thank you very much indeed for the possibility to speak here today. the thalidomide disaster reminds us today, and will always remind us, of the potential tragic consequences that the absence of an appropriate regulatory framework for medicines may trigger. the thalidomide disaster did, however, serve as an important driver to inspire the european union’s pharma legislation over 50 years ago to reach agreement on harmonised rules focusing on a high level of public health protection. the origin of this tragedy dates back more than half a century, but there are still many survivors living with its consequences – survivors who need moral, social and financial support, especially as their medical and physical condition is worsening day by day. many members of the european parliament have written to me personally and to the commission, highlighting the issue and calling for support for the victims. i met thalidomide survivors from the uk, italy, spain and sweden last year in brussels, and we discussed their request. i recognise the need to find a suitable solution for all survivors, which ensures their quality of life, and i have taken several steps to support this. in september 2015, i informed the national governments of the five countries concerned by my meeting with the representatives of survivors with the aim of raising awareness. i thank all the thalidomide survivors once again for accepting my invitation to participate in the ‘50 years of pharma legislation’ event and for presenting a very outspoken movie on the subject. i also met in october with members of the european parliament to discuss the topic and the possibilities to raise awareness of the situation of survivors in europe. i have also discussed this issue several times since the beginning of my mandate with the pharma association fpa. a few weeks ago, i also spoke in front of his house about clinical trials, as you remember. this topic is closely related, and i would like to see the pharma industry taking more moral responsibility. however, it needs to be recognised that under article 168 of the treaty, the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care, including the management and allocation of the resources assigned to them, is a member state competence. as we all know injury compensation schemes at the moment, unfortunately, are not a matter of the european union competence. therefore, the commission is not in a position to establish a framework for compensation at european level. it can only support finding a political solution at member state-level through sincere cooperation. i would encourage you, as members of the parliament, to relay back to your national governments the specific needs of thalidomide survivors and the need to support their cause. finally let me emphasise once again the social responsibility of the pharmaceutical industry to support victims in this situation, not only in this case, but also when speaking about medication errors in general.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, you said: 'it is the responsibility of the member states to compensate the victims'. but you are omitting a directive which concerns us very closely and which my colleagues are not talking about either - i am a little surprised - namely the european directive on defective products of 1985. this directive must be completely revised. why would you do that? because it has set deadlines that are no longer realistic. the victim can only act within three years of becoming aware of the damage and within 10 years of the medicinal product being put on the market. these deadlines are far too short. what does this lead to? you're talking about the dramatic thalidomide scandal that hit spain. 180 victims have attacked the high court, which, under this 1985 directive, has held that the facts were prescribed. they could therefore not be compensated by the grünenthal laboratory, which marketed thalidomide. it is not a problem of the member states, but of the directive we voted in 1985. secondly, in this 1985 directive, victims must prove a causal link between their injuries, their illness and the medicine. what did the germans do after the thalidomide scandal? well, they reversed the burden of proof. we must do so in our directive when it is revised. thirdly, when a victim suffers a side effect from taking a medicine, he cannot claim any compensation if it is mentioned in the package. commissioner, you are, like me, very sensitive to the pharmaceutical companies, and we must put pressure on them to compensate these victims. this is a european responsibility.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, on 1 february i asked, on behalf of my group, the europe of nations and freedoms, for the urgent inclusion of the zika epidemic on the agenda. the chairman of the meeting refused to give me a call on the very day that the who declared the emergency. the debate will therefore be opened six weeks later. in our view, the wording of the oral question is a good and acceptable basis for questioning the commission. indeed, the urgent, comprehensive and maximum assessment of this viral epidemic, potentially pandemic, is one of our prerogatives, but above all one of our obligations. it is the apprehension of the maximum gravity, which we must identify under the principle of medical and scientific precaution, that we owe to our fellow citizens and above all to our fellow citizens. it does not matter whether the current state of knowledge of the virus, its complications, its cofactors is fragmentary or still under debate. this is a genuine, replicable protocol for any outbreak that we need to encourage. our financial aid must be proportionate, controlled and evaluated. the centralisation of international medical, technical and biological data should be a priority this spring in overseas europe, the mediterranean and the rest of the world, depending on the areas of spread of the vector mosquito. the least toxic ways of preventing and eradicating mosquitoes in living quarters and transport must be developed, as must the still incipient test kits, vaccines, for which research is three years behind schedule, and preventive and curative treatments. the challenge is immense, because the risk of a virus is global, and we need to be aware of it, one of the most worrying risks there is.
mr president, it is now a fact that there is an epidemic in brazil, but it will cross borders and southern europe will be affected by zika. so i think that we need to take measures to inform the population, and in all the languages understood by the population - we see the interest in latin america as well as in other countries - and allow access to contraception and abortion - because we see that the blockage at the brazilian level is that abortion is prohibited. there really needs to be a follow-up of women to see whether or not they can have children with microcephaly, which is not obvious, because it's often detected at birth, but not in pregnancy. then there is prevention. i think the example of reunion island with dengue fever is quite interesting. the population was informed and we were able to reduce the mosquito populations. we now see that there's research on natural insecticides, that there are fish, etc., that can kill the larvae. on research, barack obama has pledged 1.6 billion euros and you say 10 million. the only recommendation i can make is that if a vaccine is developed, it should not be patented, since it will have been financed by a grant from public funds.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank roberto gualtieri very much for this report on the banking union. i think he gave us an excellent reminder of how much has been achieved as we have worked to overhaul europe’s regulatory and supervisory framework in recent years. the banking union is absolutely central to this new architecture. the single supervisor and the single resolution authority already feel very well established, and it is easy to forget now that the transition of supervisory tasks from national authorities to the ssm only took place one year ago, or that the single resolution board only became fully operational in january this year. so we have taken big steps forward, delivered in record time. we have helped make europe’s banks stronger and better capitalised, and europe’s taxpayers better protected. i would like to thank members of this committee, and also my predecessor, for the part that they have all played in this. the report covers a lot of ground, so i will just highlight some of the main points raised by mr gualtieri. we agree on the need, both at eu level and of course within member states, to tackle the non-performing loans that continue to weigh negatively on parts of the banking sector. i very much agree that we must check that our legislation is proportionate, that it is sensitive to different business models, and that it avoids unnecessary compliance requirements, particularly for the smaller banks. that is what we will look at in our review of the crr. i also agree that we need to do everything we can to support lending to smes and long-term investment in infrastructure projects. so far as strengthening the banking union is concerned, here the main focus is on our proposal to create a european deposit insurance scheme (edis) by 2024, and that is a key part of the broader plan to deepen economic and monetary union. it will give the banking union the third leg that was always intended. we have sought to come up with a balanced approach, an approach that seeks to reduce risk as well as to mutualise it. it is vital that we pursue both sides of this equation in parallel. we need to keep up the pressure to ensure that the bank recovery and resolution directive and the deposit guarantee scheme directive are fully transposed into national legislation. we are nearly there on that. we will soon consult on the key differences in insolvency and early restructuring regimes across the eu and we will come forward before the end of the year with a proposal to apply the total loss-absorbing capacity (tlac) standard in a way that works for europe. mr gualtieri highlighted a moment ago in his remarks his concerns about the pillar 2 capital requirements for banks and their relationship with the capital buffers. we know that there are differences in how these rules are applied by supervisors and that is why we have now started the process of reflecting on this with member states and here in the parliament and with others, so that the legislation can work as it was originally intended. there needs to be a clearer difference between the goals of pillar 1 requirements that apply to all banks and pillar 2 requirements that are institution-specific and depend on the level of additional risk that banks bear. i am very grateful for what mr gualtieri said and i look forward to continuing the discussion on this very important issue. so these were just some of the areas that struck me in the report. i share the view that we have got strong foundations on which to build and, overall, i am optimistic about the opportunity we have to refine our legislation so that we can continue to meet our prudential objectives while also supporting growth and investment in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the report on the banking union should not be used as an opportunity for internal electoral campaigning. this is an extremely important subject on which we can finally have an overview - i thank roberto for the clarity of his work - of what has been done in recent years. this is probably the only area where europe can boast, in the last two or three years, of having made a considerable step forward on extremely sensitive issues. i'm not going back on what was done. i would also like to focus on the issue of the deposit guarantee scheme (edis), of which i am one of the fictitious rapporteurs, and to say a couple of things which i think are important. the first is that we urgently need to rebuild mutual trust, because this text touches on sensitive issues - the relationship between savers and their money - and i personally refuse to see this problem nationalised. there are no countries where it is important to protect savings that are in banks and others where it is less important. it's a matter of common interest. health in our banking sector is also a matter of common concern. within the euro area, the links are close enough that we have to be extremely vigilant. nor should proposals on risk give the impression that we will change things overnight. we will therefore have to work on trust and on the conditions we can provide. in this respect, commissioner, i have learned from my initial discussions on these subjects that we must ensure that the commission is really prepared to play this role of guardian of the treaties, to provide for conditions which will be respected in the texts. thirdly, of course, we can also play on the timetable, because i think we have to do a good job, that this work is going to take a little bit of time and that, again, for it to be a success, we have to have restored trust between us. i am very grateful to you for making this proposal, which is the third pillar of banking union.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, if i were to take stock of the banking union in 2015, i would say that your institutional scam to save, once again, the banking lobby has worked very well for you so far. indeed, your legislation has been passed behind the backs of the citizens. in france, for example, the ratification of the banking union was done by decree in august, while the french were at the beach. when the insolvent banking system fails, the bank customers will be trapped and will have to pay the final bill of the bailout with their savings. this disastrous banking resolution directive (bdr) is the european central bank's theft of the banking sovereignty of the member states and the establishment of a veritable financial totalitarianism to save your euro once again. the deposit guarantee system, the third pillar of the banking union, which is due to be introduced in eight years' time, is a democratic deception which will never come to fruition because germany does not want it. we have already seen in 2015, with the failure of the four italian regional banks, what small savers suffer when a banking resolution is applied: the majority of customers are ruined and some commit suicide. the european union is dominated by an ultra-liberal ideology, that of the banking lobby. in the face of this democratic danger, the only solution is to put an end to the scheme of the universal bank. the banking union is a machine for crushing people with insane legislation, which will only increase risks and problems. but be careful, commissioner, that the anger of the sovereign peoples in their own countries does not turn violently against you and your fellow eurocrats!
mr president, i would like to agree with mr balz, who says that we must continue what we have started, because if we do not, then, in a beautiful phrase: 'we do enough to take the blame; but we do not do enough to take the credit'. if we think we have to finish what we have started, then, ladies and gentlemen, we are lacking even more than what you have mentioned. we need a backstop and a deposit guarantee, or else what we've acquired will backfire. i want us to be able to make real progress together in this direction. i hear a debate being held here and there on the subject of 'risk must be reduced if it is to be shared'. but behind this pretty concept is a substantive debate about the place of sovereign debts. i am surprised that the same people who refuse to take account of an international approach in this area, at the same time want to remove the taking into account of sovereign debts in a sustainable way and, for themselves, refuse to make sovereign debts a tool that escapes speculation, by subjecting them to taxation on financial transactions. it seems to me that there is a time when you have to choose.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i am very sensitive to your arguments, but the question i am asking you is this: you are constantly saying that taxpayers should not be charged. do you consider that taxpayers also do not have bank accounts and that they will not be called upon to guarantee their deposits, or even their savings, as happened in december 2015 in italy, in the banks that failed? so "taxable" to me equals "client in the banks". what do you think?
madam president, i think president kabila should look around. unfortunately, we have other examples in africa of presidents who thought they were eternal and wanted to be exempt from their constitution. this was the case recently with blaise compaoré in burkina faso, and we all know the consequences. but in this case, the people won: the democratic process was set in motion. the congolese riches - because there are riches - must be distributed by a democratic regime to the people, who are suffering today. the european union must be a partner of africa, because our interests are linked, but it must also exercise its right to monitor the respect of democracy in africa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs corazza bildt seems to have developed a real obsession with me, and i thank her for that. i wanted to inform her that, contrary to the false allegations and slander she has made against me, i have been completely innocent in this matter.
mr president, my intervention is based on rule 164 and rule 167 of parliament's rules of procedure. i will, of course, appeal against this sanction decision, which has no legal basis, and is not based on any evidence. president schulz's decision is indicative of his totalitarian use of the institution and the office of president, as he has shown last tuesday to the representative of the united nations. this decision is based on fanciful accusations and testimony which i was unable to consult in flagrant violation of the basic rights of the defence and rule 166 of the rules of procedure. i remind you that in this case it is not for me to prove my innocence, but it is for my accusers, four of whom are anonymous, to bring the material proof of my guilt. it has not escaped anyone's notice that mr schulz is now campaigning for another half-term as president. this is no doubt what encourages him to give in to the whims of epp members. (applause) i would like to thank
i'm the reporter. mr president, i propose that the vote on the draft legislative resolution be postponed, in accordance with rule 61 (2) of the rules of procedure, so that the interinstitutional negotiations can proceed directly on the basis of the adopted mandate.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to help tunisia overcome its economic difficulties, while its political situation is very fragile. unfortunately, the clearance of 35,000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil will only add to the difficulties of european olive oil producers and encourage fraud by passing off tunisian oil as french or italian, a practice which is already widespread. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to ensure tunisia's economic and political stability. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. the result of a long process by my colleague, mrs marielle de sarnez, this resolution will be beneficial to the tunisian economy and thus to its long journey towards a peaceful democracy. we must support tunisia in its efforts to consolidate democracy by contributing to the economic development of the country.
in writing. ‒ the european union could have helped tunisia in many other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty. i voted against this text which, once again, takes no account of the difficulties faced by our own producers.
in writing. ‒ i took a position against this text on emergency trade measures for tunisia. while i believe that tunisia should be a strategic partner, particularly for france, because of the historical ties between our two countries, and i am aware of the destabilisation of the tunisian economy by terrorist attacks, i do not believe that putting our european olive growers in competition with the tunisian olive oil industry is the solution to tunisia's economic problems. of course, we must help tunisia to stabilize, in particular to avoid the risk of political and social upheavals which would also have a serious impact on the europeans, but the proposed aid would remove customs duties on an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil, even though our agricultural sector is experiencing one of the most serious crises in its history and the price of olive oil has been falling substantially for the last ten years. it would have been necessary to provide tunisia with strategic support, in particular to revitalise the tourist sector, but this solution will have, at best, only short-term beneficial effects for the tunisians and most certainly catastrophic effects for european olive growers, especially italian, spanish, but also french.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in sousse, tunisia in september 2015, the tunisian economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism, was significantly impacted. with this in mind, the commission has proposed the unilateral and temporary establishment of a tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for olive oil exports from tunisia to the european union for a period of two years. at the february plenary session in brussels, the european parliament called for additional measures to guarantee protection for european olive oil producers. the latter are mainly located in the southern regions of the union which are experiencing significant economic difficulties. it was therefore necessary to implement a measure which would be both beneficial for tunisia and not endanger european olive oil producers. i voted in favour of this text, which is a perfectly acceptable compromise.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this exemption from customs duties for the export of tens of thousands of tonnes of tunisian oil, voting against this text. our duty as parliamentarians is to protect our olive growers first. the latter are particularly affected by the xylella bacteria, particularly in corsica, italy being even more severely affected. not to mention spain, whose production has been weakened by drought since 2013. the exemption of tunisia is a bonus when we know that it is already benefiting greatly from the recent increase in oil prices, which is precisely the result of this context.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: the european union could have helped tunisia in other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ tunisia, which has been hit by terrorist attacks since 2015, has experienced a significant decline in the number of visitors to its tourist sites, which are particularly important for its economy. the union is responding with this resolution to its promise made last year to explore the possibility of taking exceptional and temporary measures vis-à-vis tunisia. that is why it seems to me a sensible move to allow the import of 70 000 tonnes of olive oil duty free into the union. these trade measures are a good way for the union to support the tunisian economy, especially since they are subject to compliance with control rules. finally, these measures are limited in time and resources are left to the commission in the event of an imbalance on the european olive oil market. this well thought-out resolution will make it possible to implement an excellent aid measure for tunisia without risking damage to the union, and that is why i voted for it without hesitation.
in writing. to help tunisia, whose economy is severely affected by the terrorist attacks, the commission proposes an additional tariff-free quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the union. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. the measure will be implemented from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. tunisia is experiencing serious difficulties following the numerous attacks that have shaken its tourism sector. we need help to prevent the regime from being toppled and this country, so close to us, from being destabilised. the aid proposed is to put an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil at zero customs duty. the european union could have helped tunisia in other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been falling for the last 10 years, affecting european producers, without the commission being concerned. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs marielle de sarnez, on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. the aim is to exempt from customs duties a quota of exports of tunisian olive oil. these measures are temporary and exceptional and an impact analysis on european producers will be carried out mid-term. olive oil is one of the only sources of agricultural exports from tunisia to the european union, whose sector supports more than a million people. it is important to support tunisia and thus its democratic process which, while being one of the most advanced in the region, is threatened by significant security challenges, making it essential to support the stability of the tunisian economy. i welcome the fact that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. to help the tunisian economy, the commission proposed to grant us 35,000 tonnes of import quotas without customs duties for tunisian olive oil for the years 2016 and 2017. these quotas have, however, been strongly criticised by farmers in the south of the european union. they have just suffered a drop in production due to a bacterial attack on olive trees, and they are worried about seeing tunisian olive oil take the market share they have lost. since these doubts have not received clear answers from the commission and since the amendments i tabled calling for safeguard measures for producers have not been adopted, i decided to abstain, since i also did not want to block a measure which could help the tunisian economy. i would point out, however, that there are many other ways of helping the tunisian economy, starting with the revision of its debt or the conditions we attach to our financial aid, rather than taking measures which threaten european producers and set them against tunisian ones.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. to help tunisia, whose economy is severely affected by the terrorist attacks, the commission is proposing an additional quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the union, free of customs duties. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. we need help to prevent the regime from being toppled and this country, so close to us, from being destabilised. the european union could have helped tunisia in many other ways without putting french and european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been trending downwards for the last 10 years, affecting european producers. the commission does not care about that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to import 35,000 tonnes of tunisian olive oil without customs duties. this will therefore be a problem for our olive growers. it is right to help tunisia, whose tourism is in free fall because of islamist terrorism. but i wish i had done something different.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal. tunisia is having serious difficulties in rebuilding its economy after the terrorist attacks that hit it, and it is essential to help it to stabilize, or else we will see the country topple before our eyes. however, i think that the aid proposed by the european commission, namely the exemption from customs duties on an additional 36 000 tonnes of olive oil, is inappropriate. since our own olive growers are facing a declining trend in the price of olive oil over the last 10 years, the european union should help its producers instead of imposing measures that will put them out of business. the text is therefore not adapted to the european situation.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is the cradle and symbol of the arab spring: it is the duty of the european union to help it to complete the democratic transition that it is capable of achieving. on behalf of the socialist group, which i represent on this matter, i have repeatedly stressed the need for concrete and lasting assistance to the tunisian people in the face of the challenges they face. the disturbing events of the last few days in ben gardane have only strengthened our resolve. while unemployment is already at record levels, the threat of terrorism is having the effect of melting down tunisian tourist revenues. in view of this situation, both emergency economic aid and sustained political support are needed. i therefore logically supported the sarnez report, which sets a starting point by providing for emergency trade measures for tunisia in the form of an increase in the quotas for olive oil imported at zero duty into europe. these measures should have an immediate positive effect on the million tunisians who work directly or indirectly in the sector, without negatively impacting european producers (the additional quotas represent 2.2% of the european market).
in writing. ‒ this report should help tunisia to overcome its economic difficulties, while its political situation is very fragile. i would be a party to preventing a crisis of the state if the way in which we help it was not totally harmful to our oil producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's olive oil market is not affected by the crisis. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the establishment of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia to help the country whose economy is being disrupted by terrorist activities. the agreement would cover imports of olive oil without customs duties for the years 2016 and 2017. this measure will once again harm our olive growers, whereas there are many options for helping tunisia. we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposed aid is to introduce zero customs duties on an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil. the european union could have helped tunisia in many other ways without putting the olive growers of the european union member states in difficulty. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the commission's proposal to offer, from 1 january 2016 until the end of 2017, a unilateral tariff quota free of customs duties of 35 000 tonnes for exports of olive oil from tunisia, in addition to the 56 700 tonnes already available under the eu-tunisia association agreement. the report rightly emphasizes the exceptional and temporary nature of these measures. i also support the mid-term impact assessment that the report calls for, so that we can take corrective action where necessary.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. nevertheless, i would like to express my support for the introduction of temporary trade measures for tunisia. since olive oil is the main agricultural export product of the country to the european union, these measures should allow for union support for the tunisian agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the introduction of emergency trade measures for tunisia. the country, which has been the victim of terrorism, has seen its tourism industry decline. at the same time, the olive oil sector is important for tunisia, olive oil being its main agricultural export product. the granting of a unilateral tariff quota of 35 000 tonnes free of customs duties for exports of olive oil from tunisia is therefore a way for europe to show its support for the country, and this on a temporary basis (2 years). above all, no disturbance of the european olive oil market is to be expected, particularly in france where tunisian olive oil does not compete with french oils, which are protected by geographical indications. trade can be a weapon, but it can also be a shield.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution which closes the first reading and allows the autonomous emergency trade measures for tunisia to enter into force very soon, given that an agreement with the council has been reached. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and tunisia. this measure will provide support to tunisia to help revive its economy, which has been severely destabilised by the terrorist attacks. the agreement reached with the council endorses the parliament's position, which stresses the importance of ensuring that there is no abuse or circumvention of this additional quota and that it benefits all tunisian producers, including small producers. it also sets up a mid-term review of the effects of this regulation in order to be able to take corrective measures to restore the situation on the european market should it be destabilised. i welcome the adoption of this agreement, which demonstrates the union's support for tunisia in pursuing its democratic transition.
in writing. ‒ to help tunisia, whose economy is severely affected by the terrorist attacks, the commission proposes an additional tariff-free quota of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports from tunisia to the union. the current quota is 56 700 tonnes. the measure will be implemented from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. tunisia is experiencing serious difficulties following the numerous attacks that have shaken its tourism sector. we need help to prevent the regime from being toppled and this country, so close to us, from being destabilised. the aid proposed is to put an additional 35 000 tonnes of olive oil at zero customs duty. the european union could have helped tunisia in other ways without putting european olive growers in difficulty. the price of olive oil has been trending downwards for the last 10 years, affecting european producers. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to temporarily increase the quotas for importing tunisian olive oil into the european union. tunisia's economy is in tatters after the tourism slump that followed the attacks. this quota is a drop in the bucket (35 000 tonnes per year) compared to european production (more than 1 million tonnes), but it is a breath of fresh air for the tunisian economy. the new quotas are also very time-bound (maximum 2 years) and are accompanied by a mid-term evaluation (with an update if their consequences prove harmful) and a 'monitoring clause' (the obligation to ensure that all olive oil is produced entirely in the country and transported directly from tunisia). these measures are therefore not likely to destabilise the european market and will not solve the problems of farmers in southern europe (italy and spain) related to olive tree diseases and the practices of the european agri-food industry. they are vital to help tunisia's successful democratic transition. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report envisages centralising authorisations of veterinary medicines as far as possible to a european agency. if certain proposals are to amend the proposal in the right way, this will still make it possible to take away from the member states their own prerogatives and expertise by this transfer of competence. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this draft regulation is to regulate the authorisation, manufacture, placing on the market, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products. i voted in favour of this resolution because it differentiates the market for veterinary medicines from that for human medicines, which have very different logics. the text will also improve product availability and administrative simplification, without sacrificing public health and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to regulate the placing on the market and the circulation of veterinary medicinal products. the main concerns underlying the proposals are the fight against antimicrobial resistance and ensuring the best possible availability of medicines. however, this objective is in fact concealed by a liberalisation of the sale of medicines, in particular through online sales sites, thus depriving veterinarians of this source of income, although they are better able to supply the products in question. even if this report is more restrictive than the commission's proposal, it does not respect the interests of our veterinarians who are carrying out a genuine job as health watchmen. it also allows certain medicines to be prescribed by non-veterinarians, which is unacceptable for reasons of public health. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this report which, while it has laudable objectives, in fact carries a risk of undermining the interests of our veterinarians and our health and even food security. the text does, however, highlight legitimate concerns such as the fight against antibiotic resistance and the need for better availability of medicines. however, behind these just causes is an attempt to liberalize the sale of medicines, particularly through online sales sites, which will not only lead to a precarious situation for our veterinarians but could also endanger our health security, by allowing the prescription of certain medicines by non-veterinarians. finally, although it is more restrictive than the commission's proposal, it is regrettable that this report does not contain some essential provisions such as: the prohibition of animals in the food chain if they have participated in clinical trials or the prohibition of the online sale of prescription medicines, especially for food-producing animals.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to simplify the legislation on veterinary medicinal products by merging the directive establishing a community code relating to veterinary medicinal products with the regulation establishing community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. the new text will make it possible to combat the misuse of antibiotics in livestock farming. the sale and prescription of antibiotics for veterinary use will be greatly reduced and more controlled. legislation is needed to deal with the new phenomenon of antibiotic resistance. the amount of antibiotics we consume through our diet causes a certain addiction that makes these antibiotics less effective at treating us when we're sick. i voted for this text, which is the european parliament's position in negotiations with the member states.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to revise the 2004 legislation on veterinary medicines. the text covers the authorisation, production, sale, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products during their life cycle. it aims in particular to improve access to medical products for professionals and to encourage innovation. the harmonization of veterinary prescription conditions and mutual recognition between member states will create a level playing field between countries and a minimum level of health security. the text also provides for the facilitation of the circulation of veterinary medicinal products throughout the union, while reducing the use of antibiotics in livestock farming. considering that this report facilitates the safe access of veterinary medicines via online purchase for farmers and their prescription by veterinarians, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ antibiotic resistance is now a major public health problem, which is caused by the misuse of antibiotics in livestock farming. that is why i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to completely revise the legislative framework for veterinary medicinal products. the text thus lays down a number of provisions to regulate the use of these substances in veterinary medicine, in order to reduce the number of antibiotics on the consumer's plate. the aim of this vote is to encourage and protect innovation, reduce bureaucracy and make certain procedures for marketing more flexible.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which aims to combat the growing resistance of bacteria to current antibiotics. the vote took place on the draft update of the eu legislation on veterinary medicines. we advocate limited use of existing antimicrobials (including a ban on collective and preventive antibiotic treatment of animals; veterinary medicines should under no circumstances be used to improve the performance of farms or to compensate for non-compliance with good farming practices) and we call for the development of new products that are less harmful to human health. as such, i would like to see particular attention paid to the online sale of antibiotics, vaccines and psychotropic products. it is essential to put an end to this uncontrolled buying.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: even if this report is more restrictive than the commission's proposal, it does not respect the interests of our veterinarians who are carrying out a genuine health watch.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs françoise grossetête, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products. the aim of this report is to combat antibiotic resistance and thus to limit the use of antimicrobials. the european parliament calls for the prohibition of preventive and collective antibiotic treatment and for the development of new alternatives. i therefore support this report which seeks to combat antibiotic resistance and the presence of antibiotics on the table of europeans while encouraging innovation in research. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague, mrs françoise grossetête, on veterinary medicines, which aims to amend existing legislation entirely by reserving certain substances for human use, regulating their prescription and prohibiting the online sale and routine use of antibiotics. these measures should benefit consumers, who will find fewer antibiotics on their plates, and farmers, who will benefit from clear and applicable rules without reducing the therapeutic arsenal of veterinarians.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on veterinary medicines. the main concerns underlying the proposals are the fight against antimicrobial resistance and ensuring the best possible availability of medicines. this objective is in fact concealed by a liberalisation of the sale of medicines, particularly through online sales sites, which deprives veterinarians of this source of income, since they are better able to deliver the products. even if this report is more restrictive than the commission's proposal, it does not respect the interests of our veterinarians who are carrying out a genuine health watch. it also allows the prescription of certain medicines by non-veterinarians because of england, which is unacceptable for reasons of public health.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to regulate the placing on the market and the circulation of veterinary medicinal products. the measures put to the vote reflect the general desire to combat antibiotic resistance and ensure optimum availability of medicines. the adoption of such regulations will facilitate the liberalization of medicines and will benefit online sales sites or, in particular, allow non-veterinarians to prescribe certain medicines, which is contrary to the interests of our veterinarians. the commission is not only over-liberalising a public health issue, it is also endangering a vital profession. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the draft report aims to regulate the placing on the market and the circulation of veterinary medicinal products. the main concerns underlying the proposals are the fight against antimicrobial resistance and ensuring the best possible availability of medicines. this objective is in fact concealed by a liberalisation of the sale of medicines, particularly through online sales sites, which deprives veterinarians of this source of income, since they are better able to deliver the products. even if this report is more restrictive than the commission's proposal, it does not respect the interests of our veterinarians who are carrying out a genuine health watch. it also authorizes the prescription of certain medicines by non-veterinarians because of england, which is unacceptable for reasons of public health (example of the "mad cow").
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this draft report is to regulate the placing of veterinary medicinal products on the market. the laudable desire for better access to medicines and the fight against antibiotic resistance is underpinned by liberalism. it must be said that the pharmaceutical groups have been part of the liberalization of the sale of medicines. i admit that this report is more elaborate than the commission's, but the prescription it allows for non-veterinarians is unreasonable from the point of view of public health. more fundamentally, it is against the interests of veterinarians who remain by their work the guarantors of health. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the draft report aims to regulate the placing on the market and circulation of veterinary medicinal products, with the main concerns being the fight against antimicrobial resistance and the best possible availability of these medicinal products. this report is detrimental to the interests of our veterinary medicine, particularly because it proposes to authorize the prescription of medicines by non-veterinarians, which is also a real health risk. we shall vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ even if this report is more restrictive than the commission's proposal, it does not respect the interests of our veterinarians who are carrying out a genuine health watch. it also allows the prescription of certain medicines by non-veterinarians because of england, which is unacceptable for public health reasons (mad cow example). if it hadn't been postponed, i would have voted against it.
in writing. - i support this report. i voted in favour of all the provisions to limit the misuse of antibiotics on farms, including by banning their online sale and routine use. the systematic detection of certain molecules in meat eaten by humans may eventually create a resistance that will no longer be able to treat certain diseases. the veterinary medicines legislation needed to be reformed urgently.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to attend the plenary session of 7-10 march 2016 for medical reasons. i would like to express my support for the report on veterinary and human medicines. the report focuses on improving access to medicines, innovation and respect for the environment. it also contains important clarifications concerning the responsibilities of veterinarians in the prescription and sale of antibiotics. i know how important the work of doctors and veterinarians is. i therefore largely support this report as drafted by mrs grossetête.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which aims to update european legislation on veterinary medicines. because of the dangers it posed, the collective and preventive treatment of animals with antibiotics had to be banned. quite simply, one of the objectives is to prevent too many antibiotics from being on the consumer's plate. however, the therapeutic capacity of veterinarians should not be called into question and it is therefore necessary to encourage research into new medicines.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which aims to combat the growing resistance of bacteria to current antibiotics. thus, the use of existing antimicrobials should be limited and new products developed. the fight against antibiotic resistance must start on farms and to do this we must ensure that the use of antibiotics for prevention only is banned, that mass treatment is restricted to very specific cases or that the online sale of antibiotics, vaccines or psychotropic products is banned. with these measures, the amount of antibiotic will be reduced. in parallel, it is important to develop incentive measures to encourage research into new antimicrobials.
in writing. ‒ the draft report aims to regulate the placing on the market and circulation of veterinary medicinal products. the main concerns underlying the proposals are the fight against antimicrobial resistance and ensuring the best possible availability of medicines. this objective is in fact concealed by a liberalisation of the sale of medicines, particularly through online sales sites, which deprives veterinarians of this source of income, since they are better able to deliver the products. even if this report is more restrictive than the commission's proposal, it does not respect the interests of our veterinarians who are carrying out a genuine health watch. it also allows the prescription of certain medicines by non-veterinarians because of england, which is unacceptable for public health reasons (mad cow example). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to regulate the placing of veterinary medicinal products on the market. the pharmaceutical companies are behind the desire to improve the availability of medicines and to combat antibiotic resistance, and they are part of the liberalisation of the sale of medicines. this report is more acceptable than the one proposed by the commission, but the prescription it authorizes for non-veterinarians is risky from the point of view of public health. it is against the interests of veterinarians who remain health guardians by virtue of their work. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because it aims to completely revise the legislative framework for veterinary medicines. it differentiates the market for veterinary medicinal products from the market for human medicinal products, which follow a very different logic. the text also aims to encourage innovation, reduce bureaucracy and make certain marketing procedures more flexible.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the revision of the veterinary medicines regulation, it is planned to centralize authorisations as much as possible with a single european agency. the report therefore amends the commission proposal on the separation of the veterinary and human activities of the european medicines agency. some of the rapporteur's proposals are in the right direction, but the objective remains the same: to centralize as much as possible and to remove power and expertise from the member states by transferring competences. this is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of this report which, as part of the revision of the regulation on veterinary medicines, envisages centralising authorisations for medicines for human and veterinary use as far as possible under one single agency, the european medicines agency. the rapporteur has made some sensible proposals, such as better monitoring by parliament of these activities. however, we are again seeing the attempt in all areas to remove competence from the member states in favour of centralisation in brussels. the european institutions have largely demonstrated their inability to help the peoples of europe out of the many crises they are going through, and i could not approve of this new step towards federalisation of the union.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to revise the existing rules on the authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicinal products and medicinal products for human use, to take account of the fact that marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products are now governed by specific and specific rules. this technical report shall make the necessary changes in status. the report also proposes that the european medicines agency should be responsible for setting the costs. i have voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be balanced.
in writing. ‒ having been the rapporteur for this draft text in parliament, i voted in favour of the new regulation, which aims to completely revise the legislative framework applicable to veterinary medicines. the main objective was to combat antibiotic resistance, a major public health problem caused by the misuse of antibiotics in livestock farming. the text contains a number of provisions to regulate the use of these substances in veterinary medicine, in order to reduce the number of antibiotics on the consumer's plate. the text also aims to encourage and protect innovation, reduce bureaucracy and make certain marketing procedures more flexible, so that animal diseases can be prevented and stopped.
in writing. in the context of the revision of the veterinary medicines regulation, it is planned to centralize authorizations as much as possible with a single european agency. the report therefore amends the commission proposal on the separation of the veterinary and human activities of the european medicines agency. some of the rapporteur's proposals are in the right direction, including stricter monitoring by parliament, but the objective remains the same: to centralize as much as possible and to remove power and expertise from the member states by transferring competences. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr claudiu ciprian tănăsescu, on the authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicines. the purpose of this text is to improve the procedure for authorizing the placing of veterinary medicinal products on the market. a european medicines agency will also be set up to provide greater safety for european citizens. i support this text which separates this procedure from that concerning medicinal products for human use. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicines. the revision of the veterinary medicines regulation provides for the maximum centralisation of authorisations with a single european agency. the report therefore amends the commission proposal on the separation of the veterinary and human activities of the european medicines agency. some of the rapporteur's proposals are in the right direction, including stricter monitoring by parliament, but the objective remains the same: to centralize as much as possible and to remove power and expertise from the member states by transferring competences.
in writing. - i voted against this report. in direct connection with the previous vote, it is planned, in the context of the revision of the regulation on veterinary medicinal products, to centralize authorizations as much as possible with a single european agency. the report therefore amends the commission proposal on the separation of the veterinary and human activities of the european medicines agency. some of the rapporteur's proposals are in the right direction, including stricter monitoring by parliament, but the objective remains the same: to centralize as much as possible and to remove power and expertise from the member states by transferring competences. we cannot accept that.
in writing. ‒ it is planned to centralize the authorization of veterinary medicines as far as possible with a european agency. if certain proposals are made to amend the commission's proposal in the right way, i see that the result will be the same, to take away the member states' power and expertise by this transfer of supranational competence. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this is an amendment to a 2004 european regulation which aims to centralise authorisations as much as possible with a single european agency. we therefore oppose this revision which again removes sovereignty from the states by transferring powers.
in writing. ‒ some of the rapporteur's proposals are in the right direction, including stricter monitoring by parliament, but the objective remains the same: to centralise as much as possible and to remove power and expertise from the member states by transferring competences. if it hadn't been postponed, i would have voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. this is a technical report to take the necessary legal measures to separate the regulations on human medicines from those on veterinary medicines. i support in particular the five-year limit on the duration of the delegation of powers granted to the european commission for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the proposal on veterinary medicinal products, the regulation on the authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicinal products needs to be amended. this report is therefore part of the continuation of the work carried out on the regulation of veterinary medicinal products. although i am absent from the plenary for medical reasons, i am nevertheless broadly in favour of this report and its corollary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the main purpose of this text, which is essentially technical, is to improve the marketing authorization procedure for veterinary medicinal products, which will now be separated from that for medicinal products for human use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the recall of the veterinary medicines directive. the regulation on community procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use must be amended. the aim is to separate the authorisations for the placing on the union market of medicinal products for human use from those for veterinary medicinal products. it is a technical text which makes it possible to clarify european legislation which directly concerns citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the revision of the veterinary medicines regulation, it is planned to centralize authorisations as much as possible with a single european agency. the report therefore amends the commission proposal on the separation of the veterinary and human activities of the european medicines agency. some of the rapporteur's proposals are in the right direction, including stricter monitoring by parliament, but the objective remains the same: to centralize as much as possible and to remove power and expertise from the member states by transferring competences. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out parliament's position on the european commission's new draft regulation on veterinary medicines, which aims to introduce administrative simplifications. parliament called for the fight against the growing resistance of bacteria to current antibiotics and for the prohibition of collective and preventive antibiotic treatment of animals, as well as for better differentiation between the veterinary and human medicines markets, in particular by the establishment of a list of critically important antibiotics for human use. this report could have gone further, however. our group tabled amendments to reduce the time taken by patent monopolies and to make generic medicines more easily available at lower prices, but they were rejected. we have advocated and obtained strong environmental and animal protection as criteria on impact assessment and the ban on online sales for antibiotics, vaccines and psychotropic products. it should be noted that member states are free to go further if they wish. i voted in favour of this report and i was surprised to find that the national front had rejected the administrative simplifications which it proposed.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects, but the project is inspired by an ultra-liberal ideology and a desire to achieve an integrated market. the approach is purely commercial and service-oriented rather than industrial. this common data market is moving towards regulatory standardization and the abolition of barriers to data exchange, to the detriment of the states, of course. i voted against it.
in writing. - i have rejected this resolution on the digital economy and in particular the future framework for digital data. it is certainly vital to support this sector, which is a real growth engine and which has to face up to american competition, the united states being the leader in this field. however, this is a resolution based on an ultra-liberal philosophy, which is in line with the risk of monopolistic appropriation of this data by certain multinationals such as google or facebook. i certainly recognize the need to support infrastructure, to have a real legal framework and to encourage research and development in this area which is so important for our competitiveness. however, i reject the underlying logic that is driving us towards this digital single market which will deprive the member states of their capacity to act and thus of this industry of the future in favour of a european commission friendly to multinationals. finally, as a full member of the committee on culture, i will remain attentive to the issue of copyright protection for digital content - instant and universal access must not lead to the precariousness of creation and creators - and to the issue of respect for private data.
in writing. ‒ this resolution focuses on the economic and social potential of the information and communication technology revolution. it is mainly about big data and is part of the digital union drive of the juncker commission. this resolution responds to the commission's july 2014 communication on the same subject and addresses the issue of innovation and the creation of a market for big data. in addition to the establishment of appropriate infrastructures (optical fibre, high-performance it infrastructures), we are calling for increased support for smes investing in big data. i voted in favour of this text, as it also proposes improving the computer and digital skills of professionals and young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution: it encourages the european public to be aware of the importance of big data, especially for those who do not have access to the technology or are not familiar with it, which is always an important element when we know the issues of digital divide that we see even in france.
in writing. despite some good ideas, the project is characterised by ultra-liberalism and a european-wide desire to achieve an integrated market. the approach is mercantile and service-oriented rather than industrial. this common data market is part of a european framework which is moving towards regulatory standardisation and the abolition of barriers to data exchange. this is done at the expense of the states and strengthens the commission. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague jerzy buzek's resolution on a thriving data economy. the european parliament wants to examine the economic potential of this digital revolution while protecting the data of eu citizens. this revolution calls for the development of new infrastructures. smes are very active in the big data sector and i am in favour of encouraging them because they are a source of growth in europe. however, the data economy will bring about very important changes in the labour market. that is why i support this resolution, which highlights in many sectors the potential, but also the risks, of these new developments in the european landscape. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution "towards a prosperous data economy". it is a very interesting text and contains some good ideas. however, it does not address the issue of the independence of european countries from foreign suppliers and operators of networks and data. the strategic aspect of technological mastery of data management and storage, and its impact on the political and economic sovereignty of the member states and on the freedom of citizens, is completely avoided in the report, in favour of a liberal vision. finally, it is part of a european framework by calling for regulatory harmonisation and the removal of barriers to data exchange, which translates into the adoption of new brussels legislation and a strengthening of the european commission.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is openly ultra-liberal.
in writing. - i voted for this text. big data (also known as massive data or megadata) is a collection of data that is more or less structured and becomes so large that it is difficult to work with traditional database management tools. the issue of collecting, capturing, storing, researching, sharing, analysing, using these data commercially and non-commercially will impact all areas of everyday life (health, commerce, agriculture, public services, e-commerce, marketing, logistics, telecoms, connected objects, public security, transparency of public action and democracy, meteorology, automotive industry, social services, traffic and transport management, applications and services, cybersecurity, etc.). despite some negative points, one of the elements of the resolution is to raise awareness among the european public of the importance of big data, especially among those who do not have access to the technology or are not familiar with it, which is always an important element when it comes to the issues of digital divide that are seen even in france.
in writing. ‒ despite some good ideas, the project is characterised by ultra-liberalism and a european-wide desire to achieve an integrated market. the approach is mercantile and service-oriented rather than industrial. this common data market is part of a european framework which is moving towards regulatory standardisation and the abolition of barriers to data exchange. this is done at the expense of the states and strengthens the commission. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is based on incorrect factual elements, which may bias the analysis. it also espouses an ultra-liberal view of economics, which is dominated by free-trade dogmas. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which deals mainly with big data. the problem of collecting and processing the growing mass of digital data offers new economic, social and technological innovation opportunities which need to be exploited.
in writing. ‒ the resolution 'towards a thriving data economy' highlights the economic potential of the information and communication technology revolution for society as a whole. metadata, in particular, holds great economic and social potential. although i am absent from the plenary for medical reasons, i support the resolution as it stands.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because it is part of the process of adapting our economies to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the text stresses the importance of a data-driven economy in the digital union strategy and the need to invest in infrastructure and research and development. support for young innovative enterprises should therefore be recalled, paying particular attention to involving citizens in the use of these new tools.
in writing. ‒ in view of the exponential growth of the big data market (an estimated annual growth rate of data production of 236 per cent by 2020) and its growing role in the daily lives of citizens and consumers, this motion for a resolution aims to provide the european framework for reflection on the challenges and issues of a data-driven economy. the latter represents a major productivity and competitiveness gain, with positive effects on growth (estimated at an additional 1.9% of gdp growth by 2020) and employment (creation of 3.75 million new jobs by 2017). in the light of these promising prospects, parliament's strategy to develop the data-driven economy to the greatest extent possible focuses on continuing efforts to establish a digital single market in europe, encouraging investment in infrastructure and research and development, and supporting smes and innovative start-ups. the role of the union is also emphasised: promoting innovative and competitive business models, guaranteeing healthy competition, protecting the fundamental rights of citizens and consumers (privacy and data protection). for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ a new revolution is underway, sweeping through our european societies and leaving its mark: the digital revolution, opening up new opportunities, particularly in the economic field. we must take it up to ensure that the european union is the world leader in this area. but this revolution also raises new questions, particularly in the areas of security and consumer confidence, data and big data. building a 'thriving data economy' requires striking this balance between the need to create a framework that allows innovative economic and industrial ideas and models to express their full potential and thus develop new avenues for growth and jobs in europe, on the one hand, and the need to establish an adequate framework for the protection of citizens' and consumers' data, on the other. this text provides some interesting answers to this question, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ the european union, as usual complaining, would like to impose its interference in eritrean affairs. but compassion as a "human right" does not give one the right to meddle in matters that do not concern them. the recent western interventions in africa and the middle east have been catastrophic enough not to repeat these ideological recklessness. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. - interference, more interference, more interference? no, especially in view of the disastrous results of so-called "european diplomacy" that is subordinated to interests other than those of the peoples of the old continent.
in writing. ‒ the european union, which is rolling out the red carpet and giving in to erdogan's blackmail, wants to put on once again, through this resolution, the clothes of the school teacher giving lessons in morality and human rights to the rest of the world. it is rather ridiculous, if not regrettable, that the european union should allow itself in this text to look down on eritrea for respecting human rights: should we not recall that brussels is ready to integrate into the union countries such as turkey or kosovo, little known for their ethics in this matter? in the field of diplomacy, for the members of the european parliament, it is therefore 'do as i say, not as i do', especially since this text once again seeks to grant itself the royal prerogatives of the member states in matters of foreign policy, and this, in order to interfere indecently in eritrean affairs. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament expresses its deep concern at the deteriorating political situation in eritrea, where the rule of law and respect for human rights are increasingly hampered. as a consequence of this growing instability, eritrean refugees are among the largest asylum seekers in europe. the resolution also highlights the case of political prisoners, some of whom have been held without charge in eritrea for more than a decade. i voted in favour of the objectives of this resolution.
in writing. the european union, friendly, would like to impose its interference in eritrean affairs. i don't think her compassionate human rights activist has the right to interfere in matters that don't concern her. if only the european union had a thorough understanding of the situation, these words would have some meaning. but it seems to me that the recent western interventions have been catastrophic enough not to repeat these ideological imprudences. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in eritrea. it is becoming very problematic in view of the violations of human rights. the rule of law and media freedom are virtually non-existent. the european union, through the european development fund, is allocating large sums of money to eritrea. that is why parliament should have control over the edf. moreover, the commission must now commit itself to ensuring that the money of european citizens will benefit the people and not an oppressive government. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the situation in eritrea. this is a new case of interference in the internal affairs of a third country, interference under the pretext of defending human rights. the text also endorses the diplomatic role that the european union should play, whereas the member states are perfectly capable of playing this role. the european union does not add any value in foreign affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is an interference in eritrean internal affairs.
in writing. ‒ the european union, friendly, would like to impose its interference in eritrean affairs. i don't think her compassionate human rights activist has the right to interfere in matters that don't concern her. if only the european union had a thorough understanding of the situation, these words would have some meaning. but it seems to me that the recent western interventions have been catastrophic enough not to repeat these ideological imprudences. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of such a resolution would have constituted a total interference in eritrean internal affairs, which de facto concern only the eritrean government and people. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which presents the current situation in eritrea, a country which is now ranked 186th out of 188 in terms of the human development index. 400,000 eritreans have already fled their country and unhcr estimates that 5,000 individuals are leaving every month.
in writing. ‒ in the face of a very worrying humanitarian situation, parliament's resolution on the situation in eritrea calls for an end to repression and respect for fundamental rights. the resolution also condemns the edf committee's decision, which goes against parliament's recommendations. the european union supports the eritrean government in its fight against poverty, but has a duty to ensure that eu funds are used properly. i therefore support parliament's resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution on the situation in eritrea to denounce the regime's numerous failures to respect the fundamental values that underpin democracy: freedoms, human rights, the rule of law. the leaders of this central african country are violating these principles which guide our european states in particular and which should also guide the european union's foreign policy. indeed, there are doubts whether the €200 million in development aid granted by the european commission in december 2015 to the eritrean government is being used for good, in the service of the people. it is these populations that we wish to defend through this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in eritrea. according to the un special rapporteur, the human rights situation in eritrea is among the worst in the world. it is urgent that eritrea prioritise the fight against the justice deficit, democratic governance and the restoration of the rule of law by ending the authoritarian regime. the resolution calls for the immediate release of political prisoners, the protection of the rights of women and children and an end to arbitrary arrests. it is regrettable that the commission and the council did not take parliament's recommendations into account when adopting the national indicative programme for eritrea. it will be necessary to ensure that the funds allocated by the edf to eritrea, which amount to eur 200 million, are subject to close scrutiny so that the funds benefit directly the population and not the eritrean government.
in writing. ‒ this report is in favour of a further enlargement of the european union to include the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i am firmly opposed to this, as it will only aggravate the difficulties within the european union. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ in its expansionist drive, the european union always puts forward two requirements which seem to be the main condition for the admission of new member states: membership of nato, whose existence is no longer justified since the dissolution of the warsaw pact, and the promotion of gender ideology with its cortege of communitarian demands. article 22 of the resolution calls for the eu to be seen as a model 'in matters of discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity'. a vague concept that justifies the delusions of clearly disturbed ideologues. but the obsessions of the eurocrats blind them to the real problems facing macedonia. fortunately, the macedonian authorities, starting with president george ivanov, seem to have understood that it is better to rely on their partners in the visegrad group!
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is once again part of an irresponsible perspective of unlimited enlargement of the european union. the authors of this resolution are particularly critical of the council, which, unusually, has the good sense to prevent the country's accession process from progressing, in particular because of the unresolved dispute between greece and the council over its name. it is indeed incredible that the euro-federalists are pushing hard for the integration into the eu of a country which is in open conflict with a state which is already a member. the fact that the european parliament has been able to impose reforms on sovereign nations and then to judge the quality of these reforms seems to me to be a real denial of the principles of freedom and independence. the eurobes are constantly trying to drown diversity in a process of uniformity of the states which would then be at their mercy. the fact that the european union can continue to give lessons in democracy to the rest of the world, even though it is the oligarchy that is most in need of democratic legitimacy, seems to me to be the height of bad faith.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament stresses that the political crises in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia reflect the dysfunctions in the balance of power between the institutions, and the need to increase transparency and public accountability through adequate control mechanisms. we also call for elections to be held in accordance with the rules of procedure and freedom of the press. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. as regards the fight against corruption, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must not slacken its efforts to prevent and punish corruption. the same applies to the fight against radicalisation, where the development of a strategy and action plan to prevent and combat radicalisation is necessary. the country, faced with an unprecedented flow of migrants in 2015, has been able to act as a responsible partner towards the european union and put in place effective border management measures.
in writing. on the one hand, this report is an opportunity for further eu interference in macedonian affairs. several amendments are in this direction, and others in particular are in favour of a pro-immigration policy. on the other hand, i am opposed to the logic of enlargement ever further east. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the country can now claim membership of the european union, the obstacles to membership having been overcome. today's challenge is for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to break the political impasse and hold free elections while continuing the reforms it committed to under the july 2015 agreement. i approve this text which rewards the efforts of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which has been a responsible partner in the refugee crisis. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia for the simple reason that i am opposed to further enlargements of the european union. the more the eu is enlarged, the more problems it creates for all the countries concerned. we must put an end to this obsession with permanent and systematic enlargement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to any enlargement of the eu, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this resolution also interferes in the internal affairs of that state.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, this report is an opportunity for further eu interference in macedonian affairs. several amendments are in this direction, and others in particular are in favour of a pro-immigration policy. i am also opposed to the logic of enlargement ever further east. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, which is not only a text on the interference in the affairs of the countries of the former yugoslavia, is full of pro-accession considerations which could facilitate enlargement; what we're up against. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate for membership of the european union for ten years. this resolution underlines the undeniable progress that this state has made over the last ten years. however, it still points to shortcomings, particularly in its political system and culture, which do not allow it to claim immediate membership of the european union, which must be vigilant about respecting all the negotiating chapters. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution highlights the progress, shortcomings and objectives of the government and society of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2015. it focuses in particular on the national and european political issues of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i welcome and support the resolution as adopted by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the 2015 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, to encourage the country to make the necessary reforms. as the country is currently going through a delicate political situation, the elections scheduled for june 5, 2016 should be free, democratic and peaceful. in the context of the migration crisis, the country needs the support of the european commission, as it is facing, like other european states, unprecedented flows of migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) for the year 2015. every year, the parliament adopts a report on the candidate countries for eu membership, including the fyrom, which has been a candidate country since 2005. the government of the fyrom should urgently implement the political agreement adopted in june 2015 and the reforms resulting therefrom. it is essential for the democratic process that priority systemic reforms in the area of the rule of law and fundamental rights are completed without delay. this would help the country to emerge from the political crisis and prepare for free elections which are scheduled for june 5, 2016. the resolution calls on the commission to support the fyrom in its reforms and in the management of the refugee crisis. the text also calls on the fyrom to combat widespread corruption, which affects local and state administrations, public procurement and the financing of political parties.
in writing. ‒ this report is a pretext for further eu interference in macedonian affairs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ do we vote for a resolution of the european parliament or nato? ... certainly, some are actively working to warm up the cold war...
in writing. ‒ i opposed this resolution, which is part of the logic of an unlimited enlargement of the union, all in the perspective of the european countries being vassals of nato. here, once again, brussels' leverage is based on interference: it is a question of shaping sovereign nations according to its will, so that once they are malleable, they melt into the soft belly of the european monster. the union is thus once again giving itself a legitimacy it lacks in foreign policy, all in the hope of being able to subject europe totally to the atlanticist diktat. i note, by the way, the indecency of the drafters of this resolution who dare to condemn the very symptoms of a healthy democratic exercise in montenegro, namely that the european parliamentarians are 'deeply concerned about the internal political split and the boycott of parliamentary activities by part of the opposition'. the debate between different opinions is called democracy, but it is true that you are not used to it. finally, i would simply point out the reality that, with the union taking on water from all sides, the question of enlargement seems to me to be a ridiculously incongruous one.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the 2015 report on montenegro. in this resolution, parliament recalls the need to eradicate corruption and welcomes the establishment of the anti-corruption body inaugurated in january 2016. in order to prevent possible terrorist attacks, parliament also encouraged montenegro to strengthen its regional and international cooperation through the exchange of information and good practice. i commend montenegro for its adoption of a counter-terrorism strategy for the period 2016-2018. i would like to remind you, however, that the european union needs to take a long-term break in its enlargement policy.
in writing. first of all, this report is an opportunity for further eu interference in macedonian affairs. several amendments are in this direction, and others in particular are in favour of closer ties with nato, which i do not support. i am also opposed to the logic of enlargement ever further east. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 report on montenegro. i welcome the progress of the negotiations with montenegro on its accession to the european union. 2016 will be an important year for the country as it will hold parliamentary elections and negotiate to join nato. nevertheless, widespread corruption remains a problem. this must become the priority of the authorities in this country. i also welcome montenegro's participation in european crisis management operations. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2015 report on montenegro for the simple reason that i am opposed to further enlargements of the european union. the more the eu is enlarged, the more problems it creates for all the countries concerned. we must put an end to this obsession with permanent and systematic enlargement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to any enlargement of the eu, including with regard to montenegro. this resolution also interferes in the internal affairs of that state.
in writing. ‒ first of all, this report is an opportunity for further eu interference in macedonian affairs. several amendments are in this direction, and others in particular are in favour of closer ties with nato, which i do not support. i am also opposed to the logic of enlargement ever further east. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ beyond the interference in montenegrin affairs which this text embodies and the pro-nato arguments, the resolution contains pro-accession considerations which are likely to facilitate enlargements to new member countries, which we oppose. moreover, this report gives the eu legitimacy to act abroad, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which notes that montenegro, the country most advanced in the process of negotiations for accession to the european union, has made important commitments, in particular to reform its social system, but which calls on the state to achieve objectives in the field of the rule of law and democracy, the fight against unemployment, social discrimination, corruption and poverty. the european union must be extremely vigilant in ensuring that all the negotiating chapters are respected before accepting further enlargement.
in writing. ‒ the resolution welcomes the progress made by the government of montenegro in the political, economic and social fields. it also expresses its support for the necessary reforms to be undertaken. the resolution also expresses the satisfaction of all members of the european parliament with the progress made in the process of montenegro's accession to the european union. i therefore broadly support the resolution as adopted by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. this country in the western balkans has made steady progress. nevertheless, it is important to recall the importance of making the fight against corruption a priority for montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this monitoring report on montenegro for the year 2015. every year, the parliament adopts a report on the candidate countries for eu membership, including montenegro, which has been a candidate country since 2010. the constant progress of montenegro, which this year celebrates the tenth anniversary of its independence, should be underlined. in addition, 2016 will be the year of parliamentary elections and the opening of crucial negotiations on its potential membership of nato. however, this progress must be accompanied by the strict implementation of the action plans, particularly in the areas of the fight against corruption, democratic control, freedom of expression and minority rights. but corruption remains a major problem, especially in the public sector, health care, education, land planning, and construction. finally, montenegro should take additional measures and improve its legislative and administrative capacity in the area of asylum and migration.
in writing. ‒ the text does not specify what should be done to limit the power of banks. the eu is once again deceiving itself by pretending to be firm but remaining very accommodating to the banks. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to break the link between banks and taxpayers. in this sense, the banking union is an indispensable tool for the financial stability of the european union's member countries. however, the banking union as it stands is still incomplete and cannot protect us in the event of a systemic shock similar to the 2008 crisis.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on the banking union by the econ committee focuses on the three pillars of the banking union: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism (srm), and deposit protection. the report also calls for the establishment of a european supervisory authority to monitor the implementation of the euro. on the mru, the report welcomes the establishment of national resolution authorities and stresses that the single resolution board (srb) should, as a matter of priority, define the resolution plans for systemically important institutions... left to the sole discretion of the ecb, etc. in short, another report of self-satisfaction that accompanies the permanent communication operation of the eurocrats. however, the reforms that have been put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm. eight years after the crisis, the banking system has only grown, especially in the shadow banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which amounts to a vast communication operation in favour of the banking union. the rapporteur therefore merely welcomes the establishment of supervisory bodies throughout the euro area under the single supervisory mechanism or welcomes the establishment of national resolution authorities under the single resolution mechanism. however, no systemic challenge is presented, despite a still expanding banking sector. the union still refuses to separate retail and investment activities, which should be the first of the measures to be taken to protect deposits. furthermore, no details are given in this report regarding resolution for systemic banks. until the banking union is seriously challenged, it will be impossible to regulate banking activities in order to protect our economy.
in writing. ‒ the banking union is europe's response to the economic and financial crisis of 2008. the banking union is built on three pillars: the single supervisory mechanism, the single resolution mechanism and the european deposit guarantee scheme. the first two pillars have recently been put in place. they help to prevent potential crises by monitoring the behaviour of banks and to be prepared in the event of a proven crisis to ensure that the european economy is as little affected as possible. the final pillar has yet to be determined. this should provide additional insurance for savers. discussions on this third pillar of the banking union are currently under way in the european parliament. i voted in favour of this text, which is parliament's first report on the banking union.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the european parliament's position on the state of the banking union in its 2015 annual report. we call on the european commission and the supervisors to consider solutions to increase the lending capacity of the european union. the commission's proposal is to increase the union's own resources. the report also discusses the proposed deposit guarantee scheme, which aims to secure people's savings in banks. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this report on the banking union. it is important that this report be made annually in order to reflect the different mechanisms. the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism, two of the key elements of this banking union, are becoming increasingly effective. they allow for harmonisation at european level of banking regulation and supervision. the legislative package on the european deposit guarantee scheme, presented by the european commission on 24 november 2015, will make this banking union stronger, improve financial stability and enhance deposit protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: this is a communication operation, the reforms put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 crisis exposed what we had suspected: the irresponsibility of the financial sector, and even its potential to harm the real economy. i fear that despite some regulatory efforts, including at european level, this has not changed. you also took advantage of the situation, as usual, to give a little more power to the european level, with the banking union. the aim is to centralise the supervision of euro area credit institutions and decisions on their rescue in the event of default, breaking the link between sovereign states and national banks. and from now on, it's the bank's customers who will be called upon to bail them out. but you do not get to the heart of the matter: without the banking separation, which you reject, the banks will continue to speculate with depositors' money; you don't seriously tackle shadow banking, which banks use to circumvent your prudential rules; the ecb keeps pumping more liquidity into the markets, but it's not benefiting the real economy. as long as you put yourself at the service of finance rather than forcing finance to be at the service of the economy, nothing will move forward.
in writing. this report therefore gives an overview of the progress made in banking union and the remaining weaknesses. it should also be noted that, eight years after the crisis, the banking system has only grown, especially in the shadow banking sector. although the ssm has improved supervision of banks and capital requirements have been increased, banks still pose a huge threat to the global economy. in addition, no details were provided on the resolution of systemic banks. beyond a balance sheet of eur 30 billion, resolution is the responsibility of the ecb and not the mru. the work done by the european institutions in the framework of the banking union is a communication operation designed to make it appear that the european union is taking the bull by the horns. the reforms that have been put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm. the first of these measures should be to separate retail and investment activities in order to protect deposits, which is categorically rejected by the european union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague roberto gualtieri on the 2015 annual report on the banking union. the banking union is making undeniable progress in europe. the major european banks are now supervised by the european central bank and there are common rules for institutions in difficulty. however, the main problem today is the lack of a common guarantee for bank deposits. i support the progress made and the development of new measures within the framework of the banking union which can avoid financial panics like those we experienced in 2008. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on the banking union. the work done by the european institutions in the framework of the banking union is simply a communication operation designed to make it appear that the european union is taking the bull by the horns. however, the reforms that have been put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm. the first of these measures should be to separate retail and investment activities in order to protect deposits, which is categorically rejected by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it praises the banking union, which is a real danger to the sovereignty of france. the real reform would be to separate the deposit and investment activities of banks in order to protect depositors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to express my disagreement with the ineffective european economic policy. the text presents the annual report on the banking union. it is based on three pillars: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the protection of deposits. the text is clear. since the 2008 crisis, the banking system has expanded, especially with shadow banking. the reforms that have been put in place are ethereal. however, practical and effective measures such as the separation of retail and investment would be necessary to protect deposits.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this is the annual report on banking union by the econ committee, which gives an account of the progress made in banking union and the weaknesses still present. it should also be noted that, eight years after the crisis, the banking system has only grown, especially in the shadow banking sector. the work done by the european institutions in the framework of the banking union is a communication operation designed to make it appear that the european union is taking the bull by the horns. the reforms that have been put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm. the first of these measures should be to separate retail and investment activities in order to protect deposits, which is categorically rejected by the european union.
in writing. ‒ unlike other projects to liberalise financial markets currently underway, the banking union is one of the most sensible projects of the european union: to control the risk of banks defaulting, to ensure that they bail themselves out without having to call on public money and to guarantee savers' deposits. this parliament's own-initiative report, which takes stock of these three pillars of the banking union, is welcome. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the single resolution fund (second pillar) is on track, although it is reaffirmed that it must become a community fund, not a sum of national funds. finally, the same problem applies to deposit guarantee, the third pillar of the banking union that is sorely lacking. if it is to play its role as an insurance policy, it must be common and shared, and not be limited to national guarantees. despite the timid requests on this point, i voted in favour of the report calling for the project to be completed.
in writing. ‒ the text does not specify what should be done to limit the power of banks. i must say that the eu is once again playing the role of a hypocrite, pretending to be firm and remaining rather conciliatory. eight years after the crisis, the banking sector has only grown. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report is the annual report on banking union by the econ commission. it is based on the three pillars of the banking union: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism (srm) and deposit protection. this report therefore gives an account of the progress made in banking union and the weaknesses which still remain. and it should be noted that, eight years after the crisis, the banking system has only grown bigger, especially in the shadow banking sector. although the ssm has improved supervision of banks and capital requirements have been increased, banks still pose a huge threat to the global economy. the work done by the european institutions in the framework of the banking union is a communication operation designed to make it appear that the european union is taking the bull by the horns. the reforms that have been put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm. the first of these measures should be to separate retail and investment activities in order to protect deposits, which is categorically rejected by the european union. we shall vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the work of the european institutions in the framework of the banking union is a communication operation designed to make it appear that the eu is taking the bull by the horns. however, the reforms that have been put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm. the first of these measures should be to separate retail and investment activities in order to protect deposits. this is categorically rejected by the eu. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the global economic and financial crisis of 2008 led the european union to adopt strong and effective measures to prevent a recurrence of this type of crisis. the banking union system provides for a single supervisory regime for european banks by the ecb, a single resolution mechanism in the event of a bank's failure by mobilising a resolution fund fund funded by the banking sector and a european deposit guarantee scheme to ensure that depositors are not victims of a bank failure. i am in favour of this mechanism. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the european banking union reports on the satisfactory implementation of the single supervisory and resolution mechanisms. we are, however, still attentive to the proper implementation of the deposit guarantee system. as it stands, i support the adoption of the report by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it underlines the progress europe has made towards the banking union. it is important to remember that in recent years, large european banks have been placed under the supervision of the european central bank. common rules for aid to banks in difficulty have therefore emerged. however, vigilance is needed in implementing a common bank deposit guarantee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes stock of the banking union in 2015. if what has been achieved is to be welcomed, further steps must be taken. the banking union has brought the largest european banks under the supervision of the european central bank and has established common rules for aid to institutions in difficulty. the european union must work towards implementing a common bank deposit guarantee to provide european protection for deposits up to eur 100 000. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which recalls the significant progress towards a more solid banking union, but also the need for a common bank deposit guarantee.
in writing. ‒ the report thus gives an overview of the progress made in banking union and the remaining weaknesses. it should be noted that, eight years after the crisis, the banking system has only grown, especially in the shadow banking sector. although the ssm has improved supervision of banks and capital requirements have been increased, banks still pose a huge threat to the global economy. in addition, no details were provided on the resolution of systemic banks. beyond a balance sheet of eur 30 billion, resolution is the responsibility of the ecb and not the mru. the work done by the european institutions in the framework of the banking union is a communication operation designed to make it appear that the european union is taking the bull by the horns. the reforms that have been put in place are far from what is needed to limit the power of the banks to cause harm. the first of these measures should be to separate retail and investment activities in order to protect deposits, which is categorically rejected by the european union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is about consumer price indices. the commission proposes to establish a uniform legal framework for the development and dissemination of consumer and housing price index (cpi) data. lipch is used to provide a measure of inflation used to calculate economic values such as wages, rents, interest rates, etc. improving statistics in this area, making them as objective, impartial and comparable as possible in all member states and for all products seems to me to be a good thing. however, we were astonished to see that after the trilogue between the various institutions, the possibility of adding the proceeds of prostitution, drugs and gambling to the calculation of inflation, which legitimizes these activities and will obviously distort the statistics. my group, the gue/ngl, has tabled a series of amendments to remove these 'products' which refer to curious 'consumptions'. none were retained. i therefore voted against this report.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, you tell us that the incomes of farmers and pig farmers have stabilized. we must not live in the same europe! in a country like france, one farmer commits suicide every two days, and this has been the case for the past ten years. agriculture is in a deep crisis and this crisis is not specific to france. the situation is deteriorating all over europe. what is true of pork is also true of milk and fruit and vegetables. as such, i regret that we were not able to have a plenary debate on the global agricultural crisis - a debate at the beginning of the week - which would have allowed for more members to be present, and, above all, a debate in the presence of the commissioner for agriculture and rural development. mr hogan, your absence today is a sign of contempt for us, but especially for the thousands of farmers who are suffering and in despair. 30% of pig farmers are in crisis and 10% have already gone bankrupt since the beginning of the crisis. your commission, commissioner hogan, has been wrong in its anticipations for over two years. we are facing a market crisis and, as you know, only the european commission has the power to regulate. i ask you, commissioner, once again, to listen to us before the council of 14 march 2016. use articles 221 and 222 of the single cmo, which allow you to take exceptional measures to reduce production, such as the slaughter of sows, reducing carcass weight. three kilos less per carcass would solve the problem of overproduction today. reopen private storage measures with a better adaptation of the list of storable products that can be sold for export. i would like to ask you to introduce labelling of the origin of processed meat, as consumers have been demanding and as we have been asking for more than two years now. finally, commissioner, as mr siekierski has said, deploy coherent and relevant diplomatic action to achieve the lifting of the russian sanctions. put whatever resources you need into it. we appreciate the difficulty of the exercise, but today the solution is not to go looking for new markets on other continents of the world, but to solve the problem of the embargo with russia.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the european pigmeat sector is currently going through a major crisis, which is the direct consequence of the sale of our agriculture, which is being organized with the complicity of european and national political leaders. first, the russian embargo, in response to european sanctions, is ruining many producers in europe and france. it is more than urgent to lift it, which will have a direct impact on prices. then there's an imbalance between supply and demand. in europe, production will increase by 3% this year, which means an additional 10 million pigs on the european market. thus, french producers are the direct victims of german or spanish producers, who practice social dumping by hiring posted workers paid 4 or 5 euros an hour, as in the case of germany, or by applying lower charges and standards, as in the case of spain. in france, the government has proposed a floor price of 1.40 euros per kilo, a price that barely allows french farmers to survive. the manufacturers and the large retailers obviously considered this minimum price too high in the face of foreign competition and boycotted the national reference market. the fight for quality, in compliance with animal welfare, and in particular with directive 2008/120/ec on the protection of pigs, must not penalise french producers in the face of certain states that do not pay much attention to standards or to the import of pigmeat from non-european countries, whose social, health or environmental standards are not identical to ours. how can we think that the european union really cares about the fate of farmers when it refuses to suspend the negotiations on the transatlantic treaty, which will expose our farmers to competition from american farmers whose costs are 40% lower than theirs, or when, under pressure from the commission, france refuses to impose the labelling of the origin of meat.
mr president, commissioner, the situation is serious. farmers have been selling at a loss for months. in france alone, 15 to 20% of pig farms are on the verge of going bankrupt. the first reason for this crisis - the russian embargo - is cyclical. what is the commission doing to help farmers bear the costs of our diplomatic choices? the second reason, structural, is the imbalance in the value chain. we must adapt our competition law to allow farmers to group together in order to have more influence on price fixing. finally, far beyond pork, the whole of agriculture is in crisis, and if europe is to remain a sustainable agricultural power, action is urgently needed.
mr president, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to ask that a debate be added to the agenda for this evening on the objection to glyphosate. the debate can take place after that of our colleague mr karim. it is important that we can speak about this in plenary because it is a matter of great concern to our fellow citizens.
mr president, my group had asked for an urgent resolution on the situation in senegal and the situation of mr bibo bourgi. i would like you to send a personal message to president macky sall, since mr bibo bourgi has been found unfit to serve a prison sentence. however, following a hearing by the arbitration tribunal under the authority of the united nations commission on international trade, mr bibo bourgi was detained by the senegalese authorities; i would therefore ask you to send a message to president macky sall on this matter.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the yellow card procedure is the main weapon used by national parliaments to force the commission in brussels to respect the principle of subsidiarity. it obliges the commission to reconsider a legislative proposal when it has been the subject of reasoned opinions, i.e. objections from one third of the national parliaments of the member states. the report notes that this yellow card has only once succeeded in persuading the commission to abandon a proposal. it was in 2012, about the scandalous monti ii proposal, which called into question the right to strike. it is a very meagre balance sheet because the commission has been arrogantly rejecting the other yellow cards for the rest of the time. subsidiarity is therefore a decoy. the commission does not respect it and violates it, either directly or indirectly, by means of delegated acts, that is to say, by means of decree-laws, which it uses massively, as the report deplores. the report does have the merit of denouncing this situation, but it is disappointing in that it merely calls on the commission to engage in a dialogue with national parliaments and to improve its impact studies. he proposed the creation of a green card, which would allow national parliaments to make suggestions to the commission, but this would only revive the old regime placards which the commanders presented to the king's pleasure. it is a much more radical and democratic solution that should be put in place. it would be to create a genuine red card procedure which would allow each member state to oppose a commission legislative proposal if it considers that proposal to be prejudicial to its vital interest. this red card would be a veto right which would allow each state to enforce its sovereignty. it would thus be a first step towards replacing the european union with the europe of nations, which i wish to see.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as regards the form, i would like to point out that this is an objection to an implementing act and therefore it will have no legal consequences. this is a matter of concern to the citizens, and at the same time the agricultural world is facing an unprecedented crisis. in europe, many farmers use glyphosate in most crop production. glyphosate is fundamental to weed-fighting strategies. however, to date there is no economically viable alternative to offer farmers that guarantees the absence of consequences for human health. for all these reasons, we must be a force for good if the current deadlock between the member states and the commission is to be resolved. i would also like to point out that we have a procedure for the approval of substances which we, the co-legislators, have decided and voted on. in this case, the procedure was followed. in addition, in the event of new information, the commission can always revise its authorisation, and we expect the analysis of the gap by the end of 2017. in view of these elements, i have proposed amendments on behalf of the epp group, limiting the authorization in time, asking the commission and the member states to speed up their work on the list of co-formulants to be banned, such as tallow amine, and proposing to the commission framework measures for the member states. i also want to see more research and innovation to find alternatives to the use of glyphosate. i am counting on all my colleagues to approve these proposals. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i hope i have understood your question, ladies and gentlemen, from the transcript. i think that a more thorough discussion of this matter would be necessary before a firm and definitive position can be taken.
in writing. mr president, banning glyphosate, without accompanying measures and a medium and long-term vision, would have a damaging impact on the already crisis-ridden agricultural sector and would be counterproductive in terms of health and environmental safety. with my colleagues from the epp group, we are proposing a series of amendments to the draft resolution, in order to preserve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and to guarantee a high level of health security. our proposals aim to reduce the duration of authorisation from 15 to 7 years, to take account of the lack of consensus among scientists, but also the time needed for agricultural professionals to adapt to possible regulatory changes. glyphosate is now an indispensable product for various types of crops, and we cannot ban it without offering farmers technically and economically viable alternatives. however, aware of the current concerns and uncertainties, i am in favour of stricter controls on the use of glyphosate, limiting it to professionals, strengthening farmer training and banning its use before harvest. finally, we must be able to revise the authorisation at any time if new scientific evidence justifies the product being banned. thank you.
in writing. this own-initiative report by my socialist colleague raises some questions about respect for the pluralism of ideas and freedom of expression. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. this medicine, which is in fact a vast marketing campaign for our children, you want to inject at the expense of the sovereignty of the states which officially retain exclusive competence in matters of education. but european nations, already pushed to the limit by your suicidal policies, will be forced to harmonize their school curricula and fund measures that promote multiculturalism, an objective that you seem to prioritize over learning basic skills such as reading, writing, or mathematics. ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to 'reconnect' the citizens of the member states with the eu, stop denying them freedom of expression, stop lying to them about the so-called benefits of european integration and stop your blindness and your desire to impose on the peoples of europe a model of society that they do not want.
madam president, this report on erasmus+ is rather satisfactory, and i am pleased that my colleagues have incorporated some of the realistic proposals i had tried to put to the committee, including the need to rely on the chambers of trades and crafts to promote vocational training. i'll make some reservations. i am not sure that increasing mobility alone will solve the problem of unemployment, especially among young people. it seems to me that several sensible measures will have to be taken beforehand: ensuring that education is adapted to the needs of the labour market by refocusing guidance counselling and emphasising the acquisition of basic knowledge. i would remind you that according to the latest joint report of the council and the commission on the follow-up to the 'education and training 2020' strategic framework, in the union, 22% of people under 15 years of age have deficiencies in mathematics and 18% in reading. finally, while i welcome the success of programmes such as erasmus+, which are part of the framework of intelligent and efficient intergovernmental cooperation, i would like to recall that education is, and must remain, a competence of the member states. despite these few shortcomings, i will support... (the president cut the speaker off)
i'm the reporter. madam president, i will speak in french. i am very glad that we are voting on this report, which is a modest own-initiative report on a subject which is very much beyond our control. there are two key words in this report if we are to get the sense of it. the first keyword is "democratic control". we have indeed - and i believe that europe, which is an open society, is particularly attached to this - the will to participate in the stabilisation of the international financial system. this stabilisation implies the conclusion of agreements at global level with partners who may be in america, asia and tomorrow, perhaps, the whole world. the need to set rules at the global level is quickly coming up against the requirements of democracy and, in the end, we are no longer able to give a very simple answer to an equally simple question: who decides? the starting point of this report was therefore to find that in more and more areas we cannot answer our electors, our citizens, on the simple question: who decides? and it is quite important, even if committees of experts are involved, that the democratically elected bodies can carry out their functions. secondly, the second important aspect is the influence of europe in this overall negotiation. the report tries to be quite pragmatic and to start, in particular, with areas in which we have legislative powers, that is to say, in which we legislate with the council. all member states are a priori bound by this legislation. it is not the first time that the commission has been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community. on the method, we have observed what is done in a number of international institutions which are sometimes international organizations in their own right, like the oecd or the imf, more flexible bodies, which were created during the crisis or which were strengthened during the crisis, like the g20 or the financial stability board, and then a number of other bodies like the basel committee on banking, iosco, the ieis, the iops, or the iasb. i would also like to thank the services of parliament, which have enabled us to obtain a number of reports on these various institutions, as well as my fictitious rapporteurs. i see that mady delvaux is here, and sirpa pietikäinen is also here. i don't know if there are others i'm forgetting but, in any case, i think we all worked really well together. i hope we can get a large majority, because once again, these are issues that we are trying to anticipate, and we are trying to lift the veil on practices that were necessary because of the crisis, but that we are no longer quite able, in the end, to explain to the voters. what i hope is that the commission will be able to set up what we have called a financial dialogue, that is to say a closer relationship between those who represent europe and this house, so that we can discuss the mandates upstream and look downstream at what has been achieved. it is a bit like the basis of the monetary dialogue with the ecb, which was also created in the margins of the treaties. it is not more, it is not less, it is a start and, once again, i thank you all for being here in such large numbers tonight for the adoption of this report. thank you, commissioner, for being with us too.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to raise a point of order. it would be good if the colleagues could talk about the subject of the report. that would be more interesting than coming in and tirelessly doing the same thing we hear about other subjects. the subject of this report is the place of the european union in global international fora.
madam president, on 6 april the dutch people decided by referendum to reject the european association agreement with ukraine. ukraine was just a pretext. the real objective of the 480 000 citizens who called this referendum was to disavow the european union and its leaders, the european union and its bankruptcy in the face of the migration crisis its leaders, who accumulate scandals: luxleaks for jean-claude juncker and panama papers for the energy commissioner, miguel arias cañete. but the union does not want to understand the message sent by 64% of the voters. instead of improving, it is increasingly tightening the technocratic ties which are strangling the member states. the latest example is the creation of a super-frontex agency to save schengen. the union will have its own currency, with brexit on june 23, pending marine le pen's breakthrough in france in 2017.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, with the subject of migrants and the reception of migrants in the context of a comprehensive approach in the mediterranean, we have an opportunity to check whether our conduct and policies are in line with the values we proclaim. the first is reception: there is no social integration without professional integration, and the challenge is to integrate migrants professionally even as we are hit by an unprecedented wave of unemployment. of course, the refugees have to learn the language; we must recognize their diplomas, give them equivalence, promote training. but i would like to draw your attention this morning to one point: once refugees have their papers, once they have been hosted by non-governmental organizations on a site, they need to be relocated to sites that offer jobs. and here i am asking you, commissioner, for two things: first, to mobilise the member states for this relocation, which involves difficulties of which they are not aware, and secondly, to increase the amount allocated to the european social fund, because we will not be able to do everything in the multiannual financial framework to integrate both european citizens and refugees.
mr president, first of all i would like to say a few words to thank the members, and especially our two colleagues, for the intensive and thorough work of our parliament on this very important text and on this subject which we have been discussing for many months, or even many years. it is a long-awaited vision proposal and it is a framework that is balanced and comprehensive. this vision is important because it is finally in line with our values and, in essence, with the survival of europe. i welcome the key points of the principle of solidarity and the clear commitment in this text to save lives and people in distress at sea. i also welcome the proposal to step up the fight against smugglers, to revise the dublin regulation and to create legal pathways to european soil. i am glad that this is the case, but i hope, commissioner, that you and the council will succeed in getting the member states out of their egoism and their lethargy and to get them to commit themselves to implementing this balanced voluntarist policy so that the spectacle of these misfortunes will cease, paying particular attention, i would like to say in conclusion, to the thousands of isolated children who are on european soil. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. today i am glad that we are becoming aware of the difficulty facing european territories, european citizens and the member states of europe in adopting a global vision that allows us to have a global policy. this approach avoids leaving some member states with the burden of the burden because geography predisposes them to be the first to be affected. it is a matter of showing solidarity, of course by sharing the burden of reception in a democratic way, based on decisions. on a legal level, it is simply a matter of respecting our obligations under international law to take in refugees fleeing war and violence. but we must do so in an organised way, avoiding that some member states take in too many refugees and others none at all, and at the same time protecting our external borders.
mr president, this report on the migration crisis has the merit of encouraging the fight against the smuggling of migrants, but otherwise it yields to the usual whims of the european union in trying to save the schengen area. worse, it proposes measures which will seriously undermine the identity of the peoples of europe. it wants to organise two legal routes of mass immigration: one for asylum seekers, for whom the report wants to set up - i quote - safe routes to enter the union, and the other for economic migrants, whom the report wants to welcome in their millions to replace the european workers who will be lacking because of the demographic crisis, rather than encouraging a birthist policy. instead of fighting the flood of migration, the union is therefore organising it. this is further proof that it is a technocratic oligarchy which mocks the peoples of europe, their identities and their aspirations.
mr president, as i read this report, the latest in a series, on the terrible migration crisis affecting our peoples, i thought it was a welcome awakening. you are aware that the integrity of the schengen area and the abolition of internal border controls depend on the effective management of external borders. you even admit that the union needs to strengthen the protection of its external borders. unfortunately, if you finally admit that the control of the external borders of the european union, as expressly provided for in the schengen convention, is not being respected, which is turning our continent into a veritable strainer, you do not propose any solution to remedy this. the report, drawn up by two meps (epp and s&d), concludes that since the member states are unable to prevent illegal immigration, it must be legalised and organised. among other crazy ideas, you say, and i quote, that 'member states should remove any legal or practical obstacles to speeding up decisions on family reunification'. so open your eyes and give up your globalist utopia which is now crashing against the wall of reality!
mr president, more than ten years ago, on 29 january 2004, in this house, the un secretary-general, kofi annan, in a magnificent speech when he received the sakharov prize, told us that the movement of people was not going to stop and that we as an international community needed to 'manage cross-border movements much better than we are doing now, not only for the sake of people who are moving, but also for the sake of the countries that people have left, the countries they are crossing and the countries to which they are migrating'. that is exactly what the report by mrs metsola and mrs kyenge proposes. i would therefore like to thank them and congratulate them on this, because the fundamental question behind their report is that of our capacity for integration. some would like to maintain the confusion between refugees who are called upon to return to their countries and economic migrants who should be expelled. the reality is that refugees are now in our societies, in our states, for periods of time that no one can imagine will be short-lived. therefore, everything proposed in this report, if integration policy is to be a success, must be strongly supported not only by this european parliament but also by the commission, in a comprehensive approach.
in writing. in the face of the danger posed by the massive and uncontrolled immigration to european countries, this parliament already seems to be capitulating. we are being asked to manage a disaster when we can prevent further human tragedies and prevent the destabilisation of our societies. the only smart borders are national borders. the only acceptable asylum system is that of nation states, since citizenship is defined by belonging to a people and a nation. unfortunately, it is not your europe of impotence and cultural amnesia that has succeeded in forging a single community. you are trying to find out how to deal with the constant flows into europe, when the emergency demands an end to these inhuman movements of people. you are responsible for the emergence of this gigantic cemetery that is the mediterranean. stop this air-calling and save europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, but what improvements are you talking about, commissioner? you're presenting us with a pseudo-crisis plan. the policies of the european union have ruined european agriculture. the legitimate anger of farmers is being expressed every day and everywhere in europe. let's not get ahead of ourselves. the farmers expect a return to controlled quantities and prices. we must put an end to the current crisis of overproduction and maintain production balances between member states, but not in any way. the reintroduction of quotas through national policies is a real trap. so this failure to act will not change the situation. the good students who, like france, stabilize their production will be penalized, while the others, who are only looking to capture new market shares, will continue to produce more. ireland has already increased its production by 30% in one year without bringing new outlets to the european market. it is time to change this european policy.
mr president, commissioner, i have the impression that we are being unreasonable. it is almost a year since we in this house have been talking about the crisis, it is more than a year since farmers have been reporting on the situation, it is more than a year since all the economic players in the sectors have been warning us and, despite all this, despite all the measures that have been taken, nothing has changed on the farms. the european parliament voted over 70% in favour of a mechanism to limit production in times of crisis. this kind of mechanism can only succeed if it applies to all european countries. it is not agricultural policy to leave a choice to the card in times of crisis, because crises are general; it is not agricultural policy to shift the burden of financing accompanying measures onto the member states, especially since the de minimis ceiling will not be raised for a very long time. the commission as a whole - and not just you, who have become aware of the problems - must wake up, commissioner, or agriculture will have disappeared from a number of our territories before the end of this parliamentary term.
mr president, commissioner, i still think that you and the commission have not grasped the scale of the crisis. the answers you give are far from the realities that occupy us every day. it is not by using article 222 in a partial way, as you put it, that we will respond to the intensity and difficulty of the economic situation. as has just been said, article 222 had to be applied in its entirety and these regulatory measures applied to all farmers in all the member states of the union. this required additional resources. that is my view at the time of our discussions. i would also like to draw your attention, commissioner, to the negotiations currently taking place between the european union and mercosur. you must categorically refuse any offer including sensitive products and, in particular, beef. it is not possible to consider livestock farming, which is experiencing an unprecedented structural economic crisis, as a variable for adjustment to the commission's trade agreements. this is the case for our model of society and the european project itself.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, your committee on agriculture wanted to start the trilogue negotiations after the vote on this text. this is the first time that the report has been discussed in plenary. i would like to thank the negotiating team and our partners in the other institutions. the list of votes proposed is therefore the result of the negotiation. if one of the amendments tabled by a political group in plenary were adopted, the political agreement would fall. i therefore ask you to reject the amendments proposed by one political group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to codify the 'market access regulation', a text governing the import of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument allows them duty-free and quota-free access to the union market until the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. although i am opposed to agreements to remove customs barriers, i have spoken in favour of this simpler codification as long as the provisions remain unchanged.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is simply to amend the existing european texts on the subject. i therefore voted in favour of this purely technical report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets up a temporary instrument which grants products originating in african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries access to the eu market. this authorisation would be effective until the conclusion and application of economic partnership agreements compatible with wto rules.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the effectiveness of the previously adopted legal provisions for win-win trade with acp countries.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of this report concerning products originating in certain acp states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. in particular, this instrument provides for the granting of duty-free and quota-free access to the union market to acp countries outside the ldcs in the absence of an economic partnership agreement. as a member of the eu-acp delegation to the european parliament, i am very much in favour of such exchanges as long as they are part of a sound logic of co-development with our african friends.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification and recasting of regulation no 1528/2007 governing the import of products originating in certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). this temporary instrument grants these products quota-free access to the union market until the conclusion and application of the respective partnership agreements. although i am opposed to any agreement which would seek to remove customs barriers or import quotas, i have spoken in favour of this simple codification of an existing text as long as the provisions remain unchanged.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report concerns access to the european market for products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. the european commission regulation aims to update the existing rules to establish rules to promote trade with the acp states. considering that the acp states are important political and trade partners for the european union, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which concerns the codification and revision of the regulation governing the import of products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. codification is a means of ensuring the transparency, clarity and simplification of european union legislation when a legal instrument has been amended several times. the numerous amendments to this legislation have made this codification necessary.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the import of products originating in certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation. in so far as this is in the direction of better legibility and contributes to the simplification of the law through codification, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: simple codifications of existing texts.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, known as the 'market access regulation', governing the import of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument grants duty-free and quota-free access to the union market for products originating in acp countries other than least developed countries (ldcs) until the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. the provisions have not been changed, so they are merely codifications of existing texts, which is why i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jaroslaw wałeşa, on products originating in certain acp states. the report aims to establish economic partnership agreements with certain african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. i support this report which advocates more favourable access to the union's market rules for a number of products from these states, in order to support their economies. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this report, for which i voted, concerns the commission's proposal for the codification and recasting of the regulation governing the import of products originating in certain acp countries. the purpose of the codification is to ensure the transparency, clarity and simplification of the union legislation concerning this instrument, which has already been amended nine times and which governs access to the union market for products originating in the acp countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr walesa's report on products originating in certain acp states (africa, the caribbean and the pacific). the provisions are unchanged. this is a legal overhaul of the regulation (a temporary instrument) on trade preferences for these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it revises the regulation on trade preferences for acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific), which makes it possible to clarify them.
in writing. ‒ the regulation, called the 'market access regulation', is a temporary instrument used by the european union to grant a right of free, duty-free and quota-free access to the union market. this measure is being drawn up between the european union and certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific), pending the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. the text put to the vote is a reworking and arrangement of the text, and does not change the regulation itself, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the text merely codifies existing provisions, in particular regulation no 1528/2007 governing access to the european market for certain products originating in the acp countries (africa, the caribbean and the pacific). these temporary agreements grant duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market to products originating in acp countries which are not among the 'least developed countries'.
in writing. ‒ in its opinion on the walesa report, the european parliament was called upon to give its assent to a simple technical codification, aimed at merging provisions contained in agreements previously negotiated between the european union and certain acp countries. the 'market access regulation' provides that countries in the region which are not least developed countries (ldcs) may provisionally (until the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements) enjoy duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. i supported the walesa report which brings greater legal clarity to this market access regulation, which has already been amended nine times since 2009. i do, however, dispute that this preferential treatment is only temporary and is due to expire in the coming months. our african partners need more support in their development than "reciprocity" in their trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes a revision of the texts granting the most advanced countries of the acp-african caribbean area access to the european market without quotas or customs duties until the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. without these changes, these 27 countries would lose their privileged access to the european market, with important economic consequences. however, without being directly linked to it, this text heralds the conclusion of the epas in the future, which will be disastrous for these same economies. i'm not taking part in the establishment of this system of plunder.
in writing. ‒ the legal revision of this text on products originating in the acp states does not change the provisions. there has only been a codification of existing texts. this short-term instrument allows acps duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 governing the import of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument grants duty-free and quota-free access to the union market for products originating in acp countries other than the least developed countries, pending the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. there's no need to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the revision of a regulation applying special arrangements for the import of products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific group of states. the commission proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the walesa report on the arrangements applicable to products originating in certain african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states covered by economic partnership agreements (recast). rewording is a technique which aims to codify in a single legal act legislative provisions which have been amended several times, in order to facilitate access to and reading of them, while making substantive changes to the text. in order to recognise the substantive changes introduced in the text, these are highlighted in grey in the commission proposal. article 104 of parliament's rules of procedure explains the procedure for the recasting: the text concerned is referred to the committee responsible for the subject-matter and to the committee on legal affairs. the legal services of the three institutions (european parliament, council and commission) meet and examine the drafting proposals.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the council regulation on market access for certain products originating in african, caribbean and pacific countries is intended to simplify the existing regulation. the european commission proposal which parliament has just adopted, and which i have supported, replaces the various acts while preserving their substance. the parliament's decision will therefore improve legislation and access to the european market.
in writing. i voted against this report which provides for a revision of the texts to maintain access to the european market without quotas or customs duties for the most advanced countries of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) area. while it is justified for certain acp countries to enjoy duty-free access to the european market, this situation often has adverse consequences for the outermost regions of the european union located in the same geographical areas, which then suffer from unfair competition. i regret that the impact of such measures on the outermost regions is not sufficiently analysed upstream.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the 'market access regulation', governing the import of products originating in certain acp countries. this temporary instrument grants a number of trade conditions to products originating in acp countries which are not least-developed countries (ldcs) until the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. the provisions are unchanged. these are merely pure and simple codifications of existing texts. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which endorses the european commission's proposals for transparency and simplification of the rules on products originating in certain african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and their access to the eu market. in particular, products from acp countries not members of the least developed countries (ldcs) group will have duty-free and quota-free access to the european market until the effective implementation of the economic partnership agreements (epas) signed between the eu and these states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 of 20 december 2007. this market access regulation applies to products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states the arrangements provided for in agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements. the procedure for codification and recasting is a technique for codifying into a single legal act legislative provisions that have been amended several times, in order to facilitate access to and reading of them, while making substantive changes to the text. in the end, this procedure makes it possible to increase the transparency and legal certainty of european texts.
in writing. ‒ this text is merely a codification of the legal criteria governing imports from certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on maintaining 'privileged' access to the european market, without quotas or customs duties, for the most economically 'developed' countries in the africa, caribbean and pacific area, such as ghana and côte d'ivoire, before the imminent conclusion of economic partnership agreements (epas). in the long run, only the least 'advanced' countries in terms of development aid in the strict sense of the term will continue to benefit from 'so-called privileged access'. the eu is pressing the so-called 'more developed' states in the area to sign epas, i.e. conventional free trade agreements. these countries will therefore have to open their markets fully to eu firms, which will reinforce imbalances with countries and firms that do not have the same economic weight. they will be subject to strong competition on their agricultural markets, losing their vital customs revenue... by doing so, the eu will jeopardise the development of these countries. however, it did not seem possible to refuse to maintain this privileged access, even if only temporarily. so i've decided to hold off until i can make a statement against the apes.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an agreement setting out fishing opportunities for eu member states' vessels in greenland in return for an amount of around eur 18 million. i voted in favour of this agreement, which is beneficial for both parties in that the fishing quotas purchased by the european union have been reduced and adjusted to actual consumption in order to achieve budgetary savings.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries agreement with denmark allows european fishermen to work in greenland waters. quotas have hitherto been larger than the actual catch; they are less ambitious, but adaptable and less costly. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it strengthens cooperation between the european union and greenland, while promoting the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in greenland's exclusive economic zone (eez).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which for five years regulates the terms of european fishing in greenland in the sense of budgetary savings and more favourable conditions for fishermen: quotas have been reduced in order to reduce the cost of the agreement, while the share of shipowners in the regulation of these quotas is increased, and the regulations on quotas are relaxed to better adapt to the practical conditions of fishing.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report which supports a balanced agreement in the fisheries sector between the european union, denmark and greenland. this is a win-win deal, because the eu's quota purchases have been reduced to reduce costs, but greenland will receive €17 799 978 per year for five years. this financial contribution covers in particular access to the fishing zone (eur 13 168 978), aid for fisheries and local infrastructure (eur 2 931 000) and the annual reserve for additional fishing opportunities in the event of surplus resources (eur 1 700 000). we therefore have a favourable agreement which allows, among other things, the introduction of additional species and quotas as far as stocks permit.
in writing. ‒ this partnership agreement with denmark and greenland sets out the fishing opportunities for vessels of the union of greenland. traditionally, europe has been buying more quotas than it is fishing. the quotas have been reduced in order to limit the cost of the agreement, which is beneficial for both parties, and the agreement also allows for additional species and quotas to be introduced if stocks permit. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an agreement setting out fishing opportunities for eu member states' vessels in greenland in return for an amount of around eur 18 million. the agreement is beneficial to both parties in that the fishing quotas purchased by the european union have been reduced and adjusted to actual consumption in order to achieve budgetary savings. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is a recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland. the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and the home rule government of greenland has been renegotiated between the council and greenland for a period of five years. this is a multi-species agreement providing for fishing opportunities for union vessels holding licences for the following species: cod, pelagic whiting, demersal whiting, halibut, northern prawn, capelin and grenadier. i voted in favour of this agreement which respects the surplus rule and allows for greater cooperation between the european union and greenland while promoting the sustainable development of fisheries and the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the greenland fishing zone.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the new protocol between the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland. it strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in greenland's fishing zone. i believe that greenland's marine resources can be a real asset for the european union in terms of sustainable consumption, and i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part. this protocol promotes cooperation between the european union and greenland and allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in greenland's fishing zone.
in writing. ‒ under agreements with denmark and greenland, which is a member country, europe usually buys more quotas than it actually catches. the latter were adjusted in order to reduce the cost of the agreement for europe but also for greenland and denmark. the five-year agreement allows for additional species and quotas to be introduced, if stocks permit. since the financial compensation is almost eur 17.8 million per year for five years, the re-evaluation of the financial compensation is not negligible, and i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this agreement allows for the introduction of additional species and quotas if stocks allow.
in writing. ‒ the text refers to a five-year agreement setting out the fishing opportunities for eu vessels in greenland, an autonomous government of denmark. the agreements with denmark and greenland have been in force since 1985. europe has traditionally bought more quotas than it has taken. this time the quotas were reduced to reduce the cost of the agreement. the agreement is beneficial to both parties and allows for the introduction of additional species and quotas if stocks permit. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr marco affronte, on the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland. the new protocol strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland, allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of marine resources in greenland's fishing zone. i therefore approved this proposal, which is in the interest of both the union and greenland, as it involves significant economic gains on the one hand, and helps to ensure coherence with the union's fishing activities elsewhere in the region on the other. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the renewal of the protocol between the eu, denmark and greenland on fisheries agreements. europe has every interest in renewing this protocol with greenland, which grants it, in exchange for technical and financial assistance, a fishing right in the island's eez. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland. the agreement is a five-year agreement setting out the fishing opportunities for eu vessels in greenland, an autonomous government of denmark. the financial compensation is eur 17 799 978 per year for 5 years. the eu traditionally buys more quotas than it catches. this time the quotas were reduced to reduce the cost of the agreement. this agreement is beneficial for both parties. it allows for the introduction of additional species and quotas if stocks permit.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this fisheries agreement with denmark and greenland because it increases the possibilities for renewing stocks, the volume of fish that eu vessels can catch in their waters, in a reasonable and respectful way.
in writing. ‒ the text seeks to conclude a five-year agreement between the european union and greenland, an autonomous region of denmark, in the fisheries sector. in exchange for financial compensation for greenland's sectoral policy, the annual reserve for additional fishing opportunities and access to the fishing zone, the european union will be authorised to fish in this sea area. contrary to its custom, it has reduced the quantity of allowances purchased to alleviate the cost of the agreement. in addition, the agreement promises to bring additional species and quotas according to the availability of stocks. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the agreement renews for five years the agreements already signed with denmark and greenland since 1985. the agreement, which has been better negotiated, now includes fishing quotas that are closer to the practice for the european union, which thus achieves substantial savings. it also introduces additional species and quotas, which can be adjusted according to stocks.
in writing. ‒ almost all greenland's exports of fishery products are destined for the european union. in addition, because of the limited supply of fish landed in greenland and the low capacity for job creation, a fisheries agreement has been in force between the eu and greenland since 1985. the report proposes to approve the continuation of this agreement, which provides eu vessels with access to a wide range of fish stocks in the greenland eez. this system is being applied all over the world and i condemn it. the more favorable conditions of it do not change my mind. this productivist logic must end. the protocol provides for an eu financial contribution of eur 17.85 million per year, including eur 2.74 million to support greenland's sectoral fisheries policy. the quotas to be fished are scientifically established and aim to promote sustainable fishing. i vote against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this text, which allows eu vessels to fish in the maritime areas of denmark and greenland to a certain extent, is beneficial for both parties. the fishing quotas were reduced in order to lower the cost of the agreement as the eu was not fishing up to the quotas it was buying. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this agreement sets out the fishing opportunities for eu vessels in greenland, an autonomous government of denmark. the agreements with denmark and greenland have been in force since 1985. it's a win-win for both parties. the agreement allows for the introduction of additional species and quotas if stocks permit. so it can be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution in the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland. the text strengthens cooperation between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and denmark, on the other, and promotes better management of the food resources provided by fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the affronte report on the partnership agreement. the initial fisheries agreement between the european union, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, on the other hand, dates back to 1985. this agreement ran for ten years and was then extended for a further six years until it was finally replaced by the app which is currently in force. the most important greenlandic fisheries are trawl fishing for northern prawn, greenland halibut, cod and redfish. fish accounts for almost 90% of exports. almost all of greenland's exports of fishery products are destined for the european union, with denmark accounting for more than 90% of the union's imports. frozen shrimp, greenland halibut and cod are the most important exports. the european union shall pay a fixed annual financial compensation for access, irrespective of the fishing opportunities provided for in the protocol. the current protocol provides for a financial contribution of eur 17.85 million per year. the greenland agreement is the third agreement of economic importance for the union.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries agreement between the european union, on the one hand, and denmark and greenland, on the other, is the third agreement of economic importance for the union. given the economic challenges facing all parties, but also the importance of achieving a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy, which the work of the european commission must make possible, the renewal of the protocol addresses all the issues at stake. i therefore voted for the renewal.
in writing. ‒ europe traditionally buys more quotas than it catches. this time the quotas were reduced to reduce the cost of the agreement. the shipowners' contributions are even increased by 40 to 50 per cent. the agreement also allows for the introduction of additional species and quotas if stocks permit. i am therefore voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the eu, denmark and greenland. the text, which is intended to run for five years, is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and promotes a partnership between the eu and greenland that will enable sustainable and responsible fishing. the new agreement will also allow eu vessels with the appropriate licences to fish for certain species in the exclusive economic zone (eez) concerned and preserve the surplus clause.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland. the initial agreement between the union, denmark and the self-governing government of greenland dates from 1985. this is the adoption of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial compensation. fishery products account for almost 90% of greenland's exports, almost all of which are destined for denmark. the union shall pay annual financial compensation for access to these products, taking into account the special relationship between denmark and greenland. i supported this report because it does, however, call for the establishment of sustainable fishing for certain fish stocks, greater attention to scientific advice and increased monitoring, and an adaptation of the union's financial contribution to the ex post evaluation of the fishing opportunities provided for in the protocol.
in writing. ‒ this is a five-year agreement setting out the fishing opportunities for eu vessels in greenland (the self-governing territory of denmark). the agreements with denmark and greenland have been in force since 1985. as every year, the eu buys more fish quotas than it catches, and this time the quotas have been revised downwards to also reduce the cost of the agreement with greenland. both sides are winning. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is essentially technical and legal, aims to bring into conformity with european law the pre-existing air services agreements between the countries of the union and the macao autonomous region, which were declared by the cjeu to be contrary to european law. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it allows eu air carriers established in the territory of a member state to exercise their freedom of establishment and to be treated in the host member state in the same way as nationals of that state.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which is essentially a technical and legal report, which aims to bring the existing air services agreements between eu countries and the macao autonomous region into conformity with european law, in accordance with the indications of the cjeu which had declared them to be contrary to european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of this eu-macao agreement which concerns certain aspects of air services. the main objective of the directive is to bring existing agreements in this field, which have been declared to be contrary to european law, into conformity with european law. such a technical and legal adaptation seems logical to me, given the importance of the special administrative region of macao.
in writing. ‒ this report replaces certain provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between the eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the report sets out a designation clause allowing all union carriers to benefit from the right of establishment, transport security in bilateral agreements and tax provisions with a taxation of aviation fuel. considering that china is one of the largest economic markets in the world and a real opportunity for european companies, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china on certain aspects of air services. the inclusion of a union designation clause is important as it allows all union carriers to enjoy the right of establishment, one of the fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is essentially technical and legal, aims to bring into conformity with european law the pre-existing air services agreements between the eu countries and the macao autonomous region, which were declared by the cjeu to be contrary to european law. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: aims to bring existing air services agreements into line with european law.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is essentially technical and legal, aims to bring into conformity with european law the pre-existing air services agreements between the eu countries and the macao autonomous region, which were declared by the cjeu to be contrary to european law. i am in favour of this text and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague dieter-lebrecht koch on the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services. this report allows all union carriers to enjoy the right of establishment and strengthens the provisions on security. it also contains tax provisions which fix the taxation of fuel and prohibit anti-competitive practices. i support this proposal which will facilitate the development and safety of air services between europe, macao and china. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this report dealt with an agreement negotiated by the commission which aims to replace certain provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between the eu member states and macao. the text updates several provisions on safety, competition and taxation in respect of air services with macao and will serve as a basis for future agreements. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services. the main purpose of this report, which is technically and legally based, is to bring into conformity with european law the pre-existing air services agreements between the countries of the european union and the macao autonomous region, which were declared to be contrary to european law by the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report because it aims to regularise the air services agreements with macao, which the cjeu has declared to be contrary to european law.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this draft council decision. the aim is to harmonise european law and agreements between the european union's air services and the autonomous region of the people's republic of china, macao. the text seeks to restore the existing agreement in european law, which is normal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft council decision on the agreement between the european union and the macao administrative region. in this case, it was simply a matter of bringing existing agreements into conformity, but they were rejected by the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to endorse the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services. the european agreement aims to replace the 15 existing bilateral agreements in order to allow all eu air carriers to have access to air links between the eu and macao without discrimination. the provisions relating to fuel taxation are also brought into line with union legislation. but the text is of course aimed solely at speeding up the liberalisation of the air transport market, with the potential risks this poses to passenger safety. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the european union had declared agreements with macao on certain aspects of air services incompatible with european law. this technical report must reconcile european law with these agreements. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to bring into conformity with european law the pre-existing air services agreements between the eu countries and the macao autonomous region, which were declared by the cjeu to be contrary to european law. he's not calling for an opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services. the agreement, which prohibits anti-competitive practices, will allow all european union carriers to benefit from the right of establishment in macao.
in writing. ‒ the transposition of the eu-macao air services agreements, which i supported, does not involve any substantive changes but centralises the different agreements into a single framework. this transposition is therefore part of an effort to simplify the current regulation and should be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is essentially technical and legal, aims to bring into conformity with european law the pre-existing air services agreements between the countries of the european union and the macao autonomous region, which were declared by the cjeu to be contrary to european law. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i approved the signing of an agreement replacing certain provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between the member states of the european union and the macao special administrative region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china on certain aspects of air services. this text is part of the commission's negotiation of an agreement to replace certain provisions of 15 existing bilateral air services agreements between the eu member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. these agreements mainly concern provisions on the designation clause, security and taxation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to bring into conformity with european law the pre-existing air services agreements between the countries of the european union and macao, which were previously declared to be contrary to european law by the court of justice of the european union. this update of the eu-macao air services agreements is beneficial for both parties. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement, which was signed on 23 november 2013, aims to replace certain provisions of the bilateral air services agreements currently in force between certain member states and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. this is a standard trade agreement for the ultra-liberalised and ultra-competitive air transport sector with that curious region of china called macau which is, in fact, a tax haven. furthermore, in accordance with rule 99 and rule 108 (7) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, meps can only vote in one vote for or against this agreement and are not entitled to make amendments, i.e. to make changes to the text. these are the factors which determined my vote on this agreement, which is surprising to say the least.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the normal rate of vat. the purpose of this text was to extend for two years the application by the member states of a standard vat rate of at least 15%. pending proposals for the definitive vat arrangements expected by the commission in january 2016, this period of application would be renewed for the sixth time. i cannot support a text which would give the commission the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states. this tax union would help to weaken the sovereignty of the national authorities, which are already obliged to meet the budgetary requirements of brussels, a little more.
in writing. ‒ the commission will publish a set of proposals in 2016 on the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade. pending decisions on the definitive vat arrangements, the commission therefore proposes to amend the period of application of the minimum vat rate by extending it until 31 december 2017. i voted against this amendment which gives the commission the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it maintains the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% over a three-year period. this measure ensures the establishment and functioning of the internal market and avoids distortions of competition.
in writing. ‒ pending the commission's decisions on the definitive vat regime, and after having extended the 'vat directive' five times, which provided that from 1 january 2011 and until 31 december 2015, the normal vat rate could not be lower than 15%, the vote was to extend this minimum vat rate for intra-eu trade for two years. this is a proposal which i could not accept because it represents the commission's tendency to go beyond its prerogatives, as in this case by arrogating to itself the power to decide on a minimum tax rate. taxation must remain a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report which aims to give the european commission ever more prerogatives in taxation rates, to the detriment of the member states. the report proposes to extend for two years the obligation for member states to set the standard vat rate at a minimum of 15%. our nations, as a result of the directive on the common system of value added tax, are thus deprived of the possibility of using a tax lever essential to their national circumstances. this measure is only a temporary way of depriving the member states of part of their fiscal competence until the commission proposes a set of proposals on the definitive vat system for intra-eu trade. there is still time to prevent this tax harmonization.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the two-year extension of the directive on the common system of value added tax, according to which the standard rate of vat fixed by the member states cannot be lower than 15%. the commission's proposal is part of a tax harmonization process within the european union. this tax union would help to weaken the sovereignty of the national authorities, which are already obliged to meet the budgetary requirements of brussels, a little more. that is why i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ in 1993, the member states agreed on a minimum vat rate of 15%. no member state of the union has the right to fall below this threshold. this provision is particularly important for the proper functioning of the internal market. this avoids unfair tax competition which is too high in vat. the provision on a minimum vat rate has already been extended five times. it was important to repeat this measure. however, it is clear that there is a crucial need for transparency and harmonisation in the field of taxation. the minimum rate of vat is a start, tax harmonization must become the goal. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this codecision report proposes to extend the minimum vat rate in the member states, currently at 15%, for two years. i have supported this report because i believe that, within the limits of the prerogatives of the european union, the establishment of a minimum vat rate in the member states is necessary to ensure a fair effort on the part of all european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text extending the current vat provisions, pending the forthcoming action plan and in order to ensure legal certainty for stakeholders. the current text provides that the normal rate may not be less than 15% in any member state. however, it is important that the action plan be presented as soon as possible in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to combat fraud effectively.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the common system of value added tax ('vat directive') provided that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate could not be lower than 15%. this regulation aims to extend for two years, from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017, the application of that 15% minimum standard rate of vat in the member states. the minimum rate currently in force has already been extended five times. i am opposed to the commission having the power to impose a minimum vat rate on member states and i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i am opposed to this amendment which gives the commission the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i felt it was essential to maintain and extend for the next two years the standard vat rate of at least 15% for all member states. this is an effective measure to protect our economy and our businesses against the distortions of competition which are particularly unfavourable to them. this is a transitional measure, however, and i encourage the european commission to present an ambitious reform of the vat system to make it simpler, more transparent and more efficient.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this vote is to extend for two years the existing situation in which member states apply a standard vat rate of at least 15%. the directive on the common system of value added tax ('the vat directive') provided that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate could not be lower than 15%. the current minimum standard vat rate has been extended five times. as announced in its 2011 communication on the future of vat, the commission will publish in 2016 a set of proposals for the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade. pending decisions on the definitive vat arrangements, the commission therefore proposes to amend the period of application of the minimum vat rate by extending it from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. we are opposed to this amendment which gives the commission the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague peter simon on the minimum standard rate of vat. the report states that the minimum standard vat rate should remain at 15% for the next two years, the same rate since 1993. i have approved the maintenance of this rate, although i regret that the commission is delaying the tax harmonization it had promised, making it necessary to extend this minimum rate, which was supposed to be a transitional measure. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the text was intended to extend the standard vat rate in force in the union since 2011, which is at least 15%, for a further three years. this will strengthen the single market and avoid tax competition between member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the minimum standard rate of vat. the aim of this vote is to extend for two years the existing situation in which member states apply a standard vat rate of at least 15%. the directive on the common system of value added tax provided that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate could not be lower than 15%. the current minimum standard vat rate has been extended five times. as announced in its 2011 communication on the future of vat, the commission will publish in 2016 a set of proposals for the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade. pending decisions on the definitive vat arrangements, the commission therefore proposes to amend the period of application of the minimum vat rate by extending it from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. i am opposed to this amendment, which gives the commission the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it wants to allow the extension of the minimum vat rate until the end of 2017. it thus gives the commission the power to impose minimum tax rates on member states.
in writing. ‒ member states have applied a standard vat rate of at least 15%, in accordance with the directive on the common system of value added tax, known as the 'vat directive', since 1 january 2011. the commission is now asking for a fifth extension of this situation for two years, pending the submission of a set of proposals for the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade in 2016. however, it is unacceptable that the commission should arrogate to itself the right to fix the minimum tax rate of the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. european vat systems are supposed to be subject to european harmonisation. pending a directive to this effect, a provisional scheme has been introduced: it sets a minimum standard rate of 15% applicable to all member states for the period 2011-2015. the commission proposes to extend this transitional regime until 2017. at the same time, its proposals on european vat are expected to be published in the course of 2016. we are opposed to any harmonisation of taxation at european union level. taxation is a prerogative of sovereign states, and the setting of rates depends on factors specific to each of them.
in writing. ‒ the minimum vat rates are justified by the fact that vat is still levied in several cases on the principle of origin rather than on the principle of destination (in particular crossborder short distance purchases and sales). therefore, the application of a minimum rate in all member states, as is currently the case, makes it possible to prevent any tax dumping and is a useful guarantee for the proper functioning of the internal market. in addition, all member states now apply a standard rate of more than 15%; the extension of the 15% threshold therefore also provides a margin of manoeuvre for member states to carry out vat reforms, for example to reduce the standard rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates. in these circumstances, and pending a major communication from the european commission on vat due in 2016, it is indeed prudent to extend the standard minimum vat rate of 15% and to maintain the current provisions for a period of three years (until 31 december 2018). i voted in favour of this necessary adjustment.
in writing. ‒ article 113 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the council is to adopt provisions on the harmonisation of legislation on turnover taxes, in so far as such harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. the report proposes to maintain the common minimum standard vat rate in the union at 15% until 2018. in fact, since 1993 the normal vat rate has not been lower than 15%. however, the most unjust tax is the value-added tax (vat), which is paid by everyone, regardless of income. an ambitious tax policy should tackle this tax, which will be impossible in this context. in a time of widespread tax evasion, there is much better to do. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the commission could, by means of this text, set a minimum tax rate in the member states. this measure being against the liberty of states, i have not resolved to take it. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this vote is to extend for two years the existing situation in which member states apply a standard vat rate of at least 15%. the vat directive provided that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate could not be lower than 15%. the commission will publish a set of proposals for the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade in 2016. in the meantime, the commission therefore proposes to amend the period of application of the minimum vat rate by extending it from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. however, we are opposed to this amendment, which confirms the principle that the commission has the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states, thus undermining their fiscal sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets the minimum standard rate of vat in the member states. in a european union where the differences in social and tax legislation between the member states still allow dumping, i support all convergence measures to stop it.
in writing. ‒ the application of a minimum vat rate, introduced in 1993, is one of the foundations of the european common market. the guarantee of a minimum rate between each member state of the union is part of the search for harmonization between the different markets of the states. it is in this capacity that i supported the extension of the common vat system.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this vote is to extend for two years the existing situation in which member states apply a standard vat rate of at least 15%. the directive on the common system of value added tax ('the vat directive') provided that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate could not be lower than 15%. the current minimum standard vat rate has been extended five times. as announced in its 2011 communication on the future of vat, the commission will publish in 2016 a set of proposals for the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade. pending decisions on the definitive vat arrangements, the commission therefore proposes to amend the period of application of the minimum vat rate by extending it from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. i am opposed to this amendment, which gives the commission the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states, and i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the normal rate of vat. the application of a minimum vat rate in all eu member states allows for harmonisation within the internal market. the normal rate above 15% applied within the eu will be extended until 31 december 2018. the commission's vat communication is due in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which approves the commission's proposal to maintain a minimum standard vat rate of 15%. on 7 april, the commission proposed an action plan to reform the vat system, in particular to combat fraud more effectively. until such reform is implemented, the proper functioning of the internal market must continue to be guaranteed. it is therefore important to maintain this minimum vat rate, as it has been since 1993, for the next two years in order to avoid distortions of competition in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which concerns the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the duration of the obligation to comply with a minimum standard rate. the vat directive provides that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate of vat cannot be lower than 15%. the commission therefore proposes, pending decisions on the final form of the definitive arrangements, to maintain retroactively the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15%. the text also states that these provisions are extended for a period of three years, until 31 december 2018.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to amend the period of application of the minimum vat rate by extending it from 01/01/2016 to 31/12/2017. i opposed this amendment to the vat directive which gives the commission the power to impose a minimum tax rate on member states.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the minimum threshold below which the normal vat rate cannot be set by the member states. as a reminder, value added tax (vat) is a consumption tax. almost all the products we buy are subject to vat: food, clothing, energy, furniture, etc. this indirect tax is unfair and weighs heavily on the budgets of the most modest households, which spend all their income on consumption. in france, it accounted for more than half of the state's tax revenues in 2015 (51.1%) the report builds on the principle adopted in 1993 that the vat rate cannot be lower than 15% and supports the extension of such a rate until 31 december 2018 in order to 'ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and avoid distortions of competition'. at a time when the panama papers are reminding us of the scale of tax evasion, to propose to maintain such an unfair tax at such a high minimum rate is indecent. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ strategic cooperation between brazil and europol would facilitate and intensify the fight against crime. the agreement provides for exchanges of information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, the results of strategic analyses and participation in training courses. however, it does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data. although this strategic cooperation could prove effective in a country particularly affected by organized crime (which may increase during the 2016 olympic games), i abstained on this text. this agreement is part of a move towards european criminal law which we strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data. i therefore did not vote against this proposal but abstained.
in writing. ‒ despite the at first sight neutrality of this cooperation project between europol and brazil in the fight against crime in sectors as diverse as aid to illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings or drug-related crime and credit card fraud, i could not support a measure that constitutes a further step towards the creation of a european criminal law.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report concerning strategic cooperation between brazil and europol. working with brazil could certainly facilitate and intensify the fight against organized crime, especially since brazil's influence in this area is increasing rapidly as the country faces problems of illegal immigration, human trafficking and drug trafficking, criminal activities that are also likely to increase sharply with the hosting of the 2016 olympic games. it would therefore be interesting to be able to exchange information on the results of strategic analyses, criminal investigation procedures or methods of crime prevention. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union in criminal matters, and more particularly of institutions such as europol or eurojust, which it uses as a weapon in the emergence of a european criminal law. what is needed in this and other areas is genuine intergovernmental cooperation, bilateral or multilateral, which would simplify communication and enable us to be really effective and efficient in the fight against crime.
in writing. ‒ the strategic cooperation between brazil and europol, which the rapporteur hopes will facilitate and intensify the fight against crime. the agreement provides for exchanges of information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, the results of strategic analyses and participation in training courses. however, it does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data. although this strategic cooperation could prove effective in a country particularly affected by organised crime, which is likely to increase during the 2016 olympic games, i did not vote in favour of this text. this agreement is part of a move towards european criminal law which we strongly oppose. the sovereignty of our nations is priceless. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ in this codecision report, the european parliament gives its approval to the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european police office (europol) and brazil. in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has initiated the procedure for the conclusion of an agreement involving the exchange of information, excluding personal data. considering that brazil is increasingly effective against organised crime, illegal immigration, drugs and other cybercrime-related activities, i supported this report.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and the european police office (europol) in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the european union must strengthen its cooperation with third states to meet current challenges, including the fight against terrorism, organised crime and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ strategic cooperation with brazil is expected to help in the fight against organised crime and to strengthen international law enforcement. the strategic agreement provides for exchanges of information: expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention, training, advice and support in criminal investigations. the text does not include any provision on the exchange of personal data. however, i abstained, as i was categorically opposed to the development of european criminal law (europol, eurojust, european public prosecutor, etc.).
in writing. ‒ abstention: we contest the move towards a european criminal law.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the cooperation agreement between europol and the brazilian authorities on preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. this agreement excludes the exchange of personal data. the forms of terrorism and crime are very different from what they were twenty years ago. strengthening cooperation between national authorities and europol is essential to combat these new forms of crime that do not concern national borders.
in writing. ‒ strategic cooperation with brazil would facilitate and intensify the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data. we shall therefore not vote against this proposal. the request to conclude agreements with third countries often comes from member states. however, we are opposed to the development of a european criminal law (europol, eurojust, european public prosecutor, etc.). i therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the moraes report on the agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol. as provided for in its mandate, europol may conclude agreements with third countries on the prevention of, and fight against, organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. in order to increase efficiency in this objective, europol has initiated the procedure for concluding a strategic cooperation agreement with brazil. i therefore approved this legislative proposal, as it would help to strengthen international cooperation and intensify the fight against organised crime. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to facilitate and intensify the fight against organised crime between the eu and brazil. in concrete terms, this agreement will allow for the exchange of information between europol and brasilia on the fight against organised crime, trafficking and terrorism. in the run-up to the 2016 olympic games, which may be accompanied by a surge in criminal activity, it is crucial to cooperate with brazil to ensure maximum security during the event, especially for european tourists.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol in the field of organised crime. according to europol, brazil is continuously increasing its role in the fight against organised crime, including support for illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime and terrorism-related activities. the strategic agreement does not contain any provisions on the exchange of personal data. i am not opposed to that. the request to conclude agreements with third countries often comes from member states. however, i dispute the move towards a european criminal law (europol, eurojust, european public prosecutor, etc.).
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this agreement between europol and brazil, because it is part of the development of european criminal law, which i contest.
in writing. ‒ the proposal put to the vote aims to establish strategic cooperation between brazil and europol. indeed, brazil has become a major player in the fight against organized crime, drug-related crime, credit-card fraud, cybercrime, and so on. in addition, following the many sporting events it has hosted and will host (world cup 2014, olympic games 2016), the country has strengthened its competence in the fight against terrorism. as a result, the terms of cooperation between brazil and europol cover general reports, strategic analysis results, information on criminal proceedings, crime prevention methods and many others. although the proposed measures do not include the exchange of personal data, they are established by a european criminal law which is drifting, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this initiative is, in principle, positive, given the weight of brazil in the global organized crime (this issue will be in the forefront of the stage at the 2016 olympic games). we are, however, against the text being empty, which is limited to an exchange of information of a general nature. no exchange of personal data is foreseen. this type of agreement of prime importance must remain the responsibility of sovereign states, and we challenge any institution of european criminal law.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol, the european police office, which arbitrarily collects personal data in europe and can refuse to disclose it to the citizens concerned who request it, and brazil. it is necessary to ensure that the countries with which the european union concludes police cooperation agreements offer all the guarantees of respect for freedoms. in the wake of the large-scale spying scandals by the nsa and the german authorities, governments and european institutions, we are no longer able to provide these guarantees on the european side. finally, one can question this readiness to conclude cooperation agreements between europol and third countries, even though a new europol regulation is under discussion and introduces new, more binding procedures for this type of agreement. shall we take the lead? i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this cooperation including the exchange of information is of interest from the perspective of the fight against crime. brazil has a lot to gain from this, especially in terms of hosting the summer olympic games. there is no provision for exchanges of personal data. however, i am opposed to the growing influence of european criminal law. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ strategic cooperation between brazil and europol would facilitate and intensify the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation. according to europol, brazil is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, including the support of illegal immigration and human trafficking, drug and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data. we shall therefore not vote against this proposal, especially since the request to conclude agreements with third countries often comes from member states. however, we are opposed to the development of european criminal law (europol, eurojust, european public prosecutor, etc.) and therefore we abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol. this agreement strengthens cooperation between europol and the brazilian authorities in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the tragic events in europe and the increase in attacks and criminal acts in other countries, the fight against terrorism, organised crime and other forms of serious crime is essential. we have a duty to facilitate the work of the european institutions which, by their work, guarantee the security of european and non-european citizens. in this respect, the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol, on the one hand, and brazil, on the other, will allow for the exchange of information, while excluding the exchange of personal data. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ according to europol, brazil is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, including the facilitation of illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. and the 2016 olympics, like all other major sporting events, will certainly be accompanied by an increase in criminal activity. finally, brazil has a particular interest in the field of counter-terrorism and asset recovery. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data, which i find particularly positive. in these circumstances, and because i am opposed in principle to the development of european criminal law, i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the cooperation agreement between europol (the european police office, set up in 1995) and the brazilian authorities on the prevention and fight against organised crime and terrorism. this fight against evil knows no boundaries and must be fought at all times. in this sense, cooperation with our partners, even beyond the eu's borders, is a priority. finally, it should be noted that this agreement excludes the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the federative republic of brazil and the european police office (europol). the text thus calls on the commission to assess, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation, the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement, to inform parliament and the council of the conclusions of this assessment and, if necessary, to make a recommendation with a view to authorising the opening of international renegotiation of this agreement. such an agreement would facilitate and intensify the fight against organised crime and contribute to strengthening international law enforcement cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this agreement does not contain any provisions on the exchange of personal data. this request for an agreement with a third country comes from the member states of the european union. however, i dispute the current trend towards a european criminal law (europol, eurojust, the european public prosecutor, etc.). i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ german mp hermann winkler is accused of causing a road accident. in order to enable him to answer for his actions in court, the public prosecutor's office in leipzig issued a request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. the facts alleged have nothing to do with his activity as a member of the european parliament and it has been confirmed that the request was not made with the intention of harming his political activity. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - a german mp is suspected of causing a traffic accident. the leipzig public prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. in this case, the facts complained of have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament. furthermore, parliament was not able to establish a presumption that the request had been made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted as the committee recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of german mep hermann winkler (epp), who is suspected of having caused a road accident: the facts alleged by the author of this request, in this case the public prosecutor's office in leipzig, have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament, and there is no reason to believe that there is fumus persecutionis in this accusation.
in writing. - i supported this report in favour of the waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler. the epp group's member is being prosecuted by the public prosecutor's office in leipzig for his involvement in a serious road accident. it seems that the alleged acts have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament: they are not political statements or positions taken in the exercise of his duties. for this reason, it seems entirely justified to lift his immunity so that mr winkler can be held accountable for his actions in the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ german mp hermann winkler is accused of causing a road accident. in order to enable him to answer for his actions in court, the public prosecutor's office in leipzig issued a request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. firstly, the facts alleged against him have nothing to do with his activity as a member of the european parliament. secondly, the request was not made with the intention of prejudicing his political activity. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the member is suspected of causing a road accident.
in writing. ‒ german mep hermann winkler (epp) is suspected of causing a road accident. the leipzig public prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. in this case, the facts complained of have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament. secondly, parliament was unable to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague angel dzhambazki on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. a preliminary investigation into a serious road traffic accident involving hermann winkler occurred on 23 september 2015. the alleged offence clearly has no connection with hermann winkler's duties as a member of the european parliament. so i support the decision to waive the immunity of hermann winkler. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - i voted for the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler. this one is suspected of causing a traffic accident. the leipzig public prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. in this case, the facts complained of have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament. secondly, parliament was unable to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr winkler's immunity because he is being prosecuted for facts (road accident) that have nothing to do with his mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the facts alleged against the german member of parliament, hermann winkler, have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament: it is a road accident. it is therefore natural to respond favourably to the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity made by the public prosecutor's office in leipzig.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, german mep of the epp. on 23 september 2015, a serious road traffic accident involving hermann winkler occurred, and the public prosecutor's office in leipzig (germany) therefore requested the waiver of parliamentary immunity in the context of the preliminary investigation. since the offence has no connection with his activities as a member of parliament and there is no reason to believe that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, i vote in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. - the mp in question is the trigger for a road accident. the reason is therefore not linked as such to his activity as a member of parliament. there is nothing to suggest that the immunity procedure was initiated with the intention of prejudicing his work. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ german mep hermann winkler (epp) is suspected of causing a road accident. the leipzig public prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. in this case, the facts complained of have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament. secondly, parliament was unable to establish that there was a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. therefore, there is no need to oppose this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of mr winkler's parliamentary immunity following a traffic offence, i naturally voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ german mep hermann winkler (epp) is suspected of causing a road accident. the leipzig public prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. in this case, the facts complained of have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament. so i vote for this waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ we have been asked to decide on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler. following the opinion of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament, i gave my consent to this waiver of immunity for a traffic offence which was not contested by the member in question.
in writing. ‒ german mep hermann winkler (epp) is suspected of causing a road accident. the leipzig public prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. the facts complained of have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of parliament. secondly, parliament was unable to establish that there was a 'fumus persecutionis', i.e. a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the request was made with the intention of harming the political activity of the member concerned. i therefore voted for the waiver of mr winkler's parliamentary immunity, so that he can be held responsible for this potential offence like any other citizen of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the fact that intensive fishing in international waters is a serious threat to marine biodiversity and no longer ensures the conservation and exploitation of its resources. the text therefore calls for the creation of marine protected areas and global management tools, in particular for the registration of ships. i abstained on this text because, although this report is a good one in strengthening the protection of marine biodiversity, the un convention risks creating management tools that are beyond the reach of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates the creation of marine protected areas, global management tools, including for ship registration, and scientific monitoring of new activities to exploit marine resources. i cannot vote in favour of this report because the un convention risks creating global management tools that are beyond the reach of sovereign states. it is already clear that the new regulatory constraints will affect european fishermen less than their competitors. the report was only a recommendation, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ there is an urgent need to implement measures for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. that is why i voted in favour of this text. however, i would point out that the protection of marine biodiversity must be part of an international, not just a european, framework in order to be fully effective.
in writing. ‒ if the legal framework in international law for the high seas (seas beyond the jurisdiction of states, or 64% of the seas), developed over thirty years ago and based on the principle of freedom of the high seas, no longer allows the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity, a strengthening of international legislation would have little effect on european fishermen, who are already subject to the most severe constraints in this area. in addition, the report only makes recommendations on the establishment of marine protected areas or the establishment of global management tools and scientific monitoring of new activities for the exploitation of marine resources. however, i could not vote in favour of a report which, emanating from the united nations convention, leads to the creation of global management tools which are beyond the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ this report on the un convention on the law of the sea, and in particular the fisheries aspects, called for an abstention vote on my part. it must be admitted that 64% of the seas are governed by international law, given that they are outside the jurisdictions of the states. the existing legal framework is considered by the rapporteur to be outdated, particularly in terms of the protection of marine biodiversity and sustainable exploitation. if the fisheries sector is targeted by new and more restrictive legislation (creation of marine protected areas, global management tools, scientific monitoring of new activities for the exploitation of marine resources), this should have little impact on european fishermen, who are already subject to severe constraints. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left to the mercy of the international community.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises that the european union has been a key player in the proper exploitation of marine biological resources. it advocates the creation of marine protected areas, global management tools, including for ship registration, and scientific monitoring of new activities to exploit marine resources. the united nations convention risks creating global management tools that are beyond the reach of sovereign states, which is why i cannot vote in favour of it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the new regulation. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that intensive fishing in international waters is a serious threat to marine biodiversity and no longer ensures the conservation and exploitation of its resources. the text therefore calls for the creation of marine protected areas and global management tools, in particular for the registration of ships. while this report is a good one in strengthening the protection of marine biodiversity, the un convention risks creating management tools beyond the reach of member states. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the united nations is currently preparing a legally binding international agreement relating to the united nations convention on the law of the sea on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. this report supports this approach. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. this framework is based in particular on the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) and the fish stocks agreement. these un instruments are effective and have proven their worth but could be better coordinated with other international biodiversity instruments. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report makes a series of recommendations for the development of a legally binding international instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that sustainable and responsible fishing is a prerequisite for the preservation of the fisheries sector in europe and the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the creation, by the end of 2017, of a legally binding international instrument relating to the 1995 united nations convention on the law of the sea. this instrument concerns the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction. the measures in this report also underline the important role of the european union in ensuring the sustainable management of marine biological resources and recommend that the european union continue to be active in the development and implementation of this new instrument.
in writing. ‒ the creation of marine protected areas and management tools at global level, including for ship registration and scientific monitoring of new exploitation activities, can help to preserve marine biodiversity. however, the details of these arrangements are not sufficiently precise. these, although not meaningless, would be in addition to a european framework which is recognised as being very restrictive for fishermen. until we know whether the new regulatory obligations will affect european fishermen or their competitors, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the un convention risks creating global management tools beyond the reach of sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises that the european union has been a key player in the proper exploitation of marine biological resources. it also advocates the creation of marine protected areas, global management tools, including for ship registration, and scientific monitoring of new activities to exploit marine resources. we cannot vote in favour of this report because the un convention is in fact likely to create global management tools which are beyond the control of sovereign states. however, it is equally pointless to vote against, because it can be expected that the new regulatory constraints will affect european fishermen less and their competitors more. in any event, the report is merely making recommendations. that is why i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs norica nicolai, on the fisheries aspects of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. due to concerns and debates in the international community regarding the effectiveness of the current framework to address the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources beyond areas of national jurisdiction, an ad hoc working group at the united nations recommended the development of a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity on the high seas. i have endorsed this legislative proposal, which supports progress on the creation of international legislation for marine biodiversity. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the decision of the un general assembly to develop, under unclos, a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity in areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. it stressed the importance of making progress in the development of this new instrument and meeting the target of finalising the text by the end of 2017. i voted in favour of this report because it is balanced.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the un convention on the law of the sea. in fact, 64% of the seas are located beyond the jurisdictional boundaries of states and are governed by international law. the rapporteur believes that the existing legal framework, which was drawn up more than 30 years ago on the basis of the principle of freedom of the high seas, no longer allows for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity. fisheries is obviously an activity that has a significant impact on marine biodiversity and will therefore be covered by all conservation and management measures. however, if international legislation were to be strengthened, this would have little impact on european fishermen, who already face the greatest constraints in achieving maximum sustainable yield. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the eu's external action. however, it is equally pointless to vote against, because it can be expected that the new regulatory constraints will affect european fishermen less and their competitors more.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, under the pretext of ensuring the conservation of fish stocks, it recommends the creation of global management tools which risk further undermining the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ the report looks at the legal framework that governs international waters, representing 64% of the seas, and ensures the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity. this framework, established over 30 years ago, shows its limits and is no longer sufficient to protect marine biodiversity from mass fishing. the european union, as a recognised key player in the respectful exploitation of marine biological resources, makes numerous recommendations through this report to improve the law of the sea. the text includes several proposals for the creation of marine protected areas, global management tools and scientific monitoring of new marine activities. however, although the intention of the report is good, it only sets out a set of recommendations and does not propose an action plan; so i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the report aims to strengthen the eu's role in protecting global maritime spaces. it also advocates the creation of marine protected areas and global structures for the management of marine areas, most of which are not under the sovereign control of any state. the report is purely charming, but it has no real legal significance. however, it is contrary to the principle of state sovereignty, advocating an ever-greater globalisation of maritime spatial management.
in writing. - never in its 200,000 years of history has the human species weighed so heavily on its ecosystem. the sea is also a source of hope for mankind. food, fresh water and energy will come from the sea, if the conditions for exploiting the oceans break with the selfish and short-term logic. nothing is less certain. in fact, 64% of marine areas are not under any international jurisdiction and 45% of the earth's surface is a lawless area. the united nations convention on the law of the sea develops, in the framework of a new international agreement, an internationally legally binding instrument for the conservation and management of marine biodiversity. the report calls on meps to engage the eu in this process. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the international legal framework for protecting biodiversity is outdated, according to the rapporteur. if the legislation were to be tightened today, it would have little impact on european fishermen, given the heavy constraints they already face. on the other hand, this would have an influence on competition. however, i cannot accept that the un convention can forge decisive instruments which are beyond the reach of the states. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur believes that the existing legal framework, which was developed over 30 years ago on the basis of the principle of freedom of the high seas, no longer ensures the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity. we cannot vote in favour of this report because the un convention risks creating global management tools that are beyond the control of sovereign states. however, it is equally pointless to vote against, because it can be expected that the new regulatory constraints will affect european fishermen less and their competitors more. in any event, the report only makes recommendations, which is why abstention should be preferred.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to commit those states which have not yet done so to ratifying the united nations convention on the law of the sea. this text is fundamental because it establishes a legal framework for the exploitation of the resources of the sea, in particular through the creation of the international tribunal for the law of the sea, the international seabed authority and the continental shelf boundary commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the nicolai report. in response to concerns and debates in the international community about the effectiveness of the current framework to address the issue of the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources beyond areas of national jurisdiction, an informal, open-ended ad hoc working group was established in 2004 by paragraph 73 of un general assembly resolution 59/24. in january 2015, the working group presented its latest report, highlighting the need for a comprehensive global system to better address this issue and recommended the development of a legally binding international instrument relating to the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) and addressing the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. on the basis of that recommendation, the united nations general assembly decided in july 2015 to establish a preparatory committee to draft the text of an internationally legally binding instrument by the end of 2017, before an intergovernmental conference.
in writing. ‒ recalling the positions of the united nations and the international community on the law of the sea, the report that parliament has just adopted calls for the establishment of a legally binding instrument by the end of 2017 for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the un resolution on the development of a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, adopted in june 2015. the report supports this resolution, while emphasising the rapid growth and expansion of maritime activities and their potentially negative impact, in particular on industrial fisheries. it called on the european commission to complete the current structure and to ensure that protection is extended to areas where no international text is applicable.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates the creation of marine protected areas, global management tools, including for ship registration, and scientific monitoring of new activities to exploit marine resources. i cannot vote in favour of this text because the un convention is in fact likely to create global management tools that are beyond the reach of sovereign states. however, it is equally pointless to vote against, because it can be expected that the new regulatory constraints will affect european fishermen less and their competitors more. in any event, the report is merely making recommendations. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the approach initiated by the united nations to prepare a legally binding international agreement relating to the united nations convention on the law of the sea. this future agreement will deal with the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in marine areas outside national jurisdiction. although this new un instrument joins existing mechanisms that have proved their worth, i call for better coordination with other international mechanisms for the conservation of biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on fisheries aspects in the un convention on the law of the sea. in 2004, the united nations established an informal ad hoc working group on the effectiveness of the current framework to address conservation and sustainable use of marine resources beyond areas of national jurisdiction that are regulated. the working group published its last report in january 2015 advocating the development of a legally binding instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in these areas beyond national jurisdiction. in this text, parliament considers that the european union and especially the member states should act in favour of marine biodiversity by applying modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management. i supported this text which reaffirms its commitment to implement such an instrument before the end of 2017 in order to preserve the marine ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ the legal framework on international waters is no longer sufficient to control biodiversity conservation. the report states that the european union is a key player in the protection of biodiversity. it also advocates the creation of marine protected areas, global management tools, including for ship registration, and scientific monitoring of new activities to exploit marine resources. the united nations therefore runs the risk of creating global management tools that are beyond the reach of sovereign states, so i cannot vote for it. however, european fishermen should not be affected by this report (unlike their foreign counterparts). that is why i have abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ in june 2015, the un general assembly working group adopted a resolution to highlight the fact that maritime areas beyond the limits of national jurisdictions (200 nautical miles) are rarely protected and are beyond any jurisdiction, including international jurisdiction. 64% of the seas, including the high seas and the deep sea, are areas beyond national jurisdiction and only 1% of the areas beyond these limits are protected by the establishment of marine protected areas. however, the growth and expansion of maritime activities, in particular industrial fishing, and their potentially negative impact on fisheries resources and biodiversity, make it urgent to protect these areas better. the report proposes to extend the provisions on the protection of maritime zones of national jurisdictions to areas not currently covered. this is good for the protection of these areas and their biodiversity. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his report. like him, i support the commission's proposals which, without calling into question the foundations of zootechnical legislation, seek to simplify and clarify the existing rules and bring them more coherence. the fact that all the zootechnical rules are brought together in a single regulatory framework and in the form of a regulation should avoid the problems of application that we have known so far in intra-community trade. i would like to thank the european parliament for its contribution to the better conservation of local breeds or endangered breeds. as i was able to observe at the paris agricultural fair, these breeds are a considerable development asset for many territories and especially for the least prosperous of them. these breeds, adapted to difficult production conditions and their ecosystem, allow small farms to develop quality food chains that, while meeting consumer demands, preserve employment in rural areas.
in writing. ‒ this report went through a complex procedure before it was voted in plenary. the original text presented by the commission was largely criticizable, particularly on the fact that the commission sought to arrogate to itself the maximum of prerogatives on the subject. the committee on agriculture improves the original version by taking account of breeds with low numbers, by returning to specific criteria for equines and by limiting the commission's prerogatives, but all this is still largely inadequate. i therefore opposed this report, which leaves far too much room for manoeuvre to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which is in line with the better regulation programme by bringing seven regulations together in one, which i welcome. this regulation has first raised a great deal of concern in the equine sector, the only species which is not destined to end up on our plates and which must be treated differently. nevertheless, thanks to the attention and work of rapporteur michel dantin, the equine sector is reassured and strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to a report which leaves far too much room for manoeuvre to the commission; in spite of the fact that mr dantin has taken into account a number of our remarks in a new version of his report - taking into account the small breeds, the inclusion of specific criteria for horses, the limitation of the commission's prerogatives - this new version retains a number of points which represent as much of a breach of our sovereignty in an area as important as agriculture. since this text is a regulation, it will be applied without transposition into national law; it also provides the commission with a pretext for assuming new prerogatives in the establishment of selection and import criteria; finally, the clause protecting farmers in eu countries against possible shortcomings by third countries is too vague and therefore insufficient in that it leaves the full definition of what constitutes such shortcomings to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report on breeding animals and their germinal products because it endorses an intolerable arbitrary power of the european commission in this area. the text adopted by parliament is certainly an improvement on the commission's original proposal, taking account of the low-ranking breeds and the specific criteria for equines, ideas which my colleagues from the enl had brought to the agri committee. however, the regulation (which therefore has direct application without any possible debate at national level) resulting from the trilogue leaves the commission free to define the selection or import criteria. the safeguard clause is also far too weak, since the definition of 'serious and widespread non-compliance with the rules' is left to the discretion of the commission! the import of breeding animals and germinal products from third countries is therefore not restricted and there are no real constraints in this text in terms of zootechnical and genealogical rules.
in writing. ‒ i myself was rapporteur for this codecision report which proposes a clear legislative framework for animal breeding and guarantees a minimum level of rights and obligations for breeders and breeding organisations. the report proposes measures to safeguard the specific characteristics of each species and introduces special provisions for endangered breeds. the aim is to strike a balance between the preservation of pure breeds and the development of the internal market. through these provisions, i wanted to strengthen and simplify official controls for farmers and reduce delegations of power to the european commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michel dantin on breeding animals and their germinal products. the text takes into account the case of rare or endangered breeds, but also the health and welfare of animals. the text introduces special provisions such as the prohibition on the use of a purebred breeding animal and its germinal products where such use would jeopardise the conservation and genetic diversity of that breed. the text also calls for the health and welfare of animals to be taken into account by those involved in the animal husbandry sector.
in writing. - i supported the report by my colleague michel dantin. in my view, the role of the european union is to propose a single horizontal legislative framework for animal breeding. the regulation also replaces nearly a dozen vertical directives which structure the community acquis in animal breeding by species. this therefore helps to simplify legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation on breeding animals and their germinal products. it should help to preserve local breeds and endangered breeds. the purpose of this regulation is to simplify the rules on animal husbandry in force in the european union. at the same time, it enhances the value of local breeds and particularly herds from mountain areas which could be threatened by the search for competitiveness in the livestock sector. genomic and breeding tools (with the secure approval procedure of breeding organisations and the approval procedure of their breeding programme), as well as new information and communication technologies, can help to preserve these breeds whose characteristics are adapted to particular biophysical contexts. in addition to preserving biodiversity, the new regulation aims to strengthen the guarantee of traceability for citizens who are increasingly concerned about the origin of the food they consume. on a more global level, european agriculture and the cap of tomorrow must promote an extensive development model that respects territories, biodiversity and local resources.
in writing. ‒ the text of the report, which was much better than the original version, contained several commendable aspects: the inclusion of breeds with low numbers, the inclusion of specific criteria for equines, and the limitation of the commission's prerogatives. unfortunately, the regulation subsequently negotiated in the trilogue contains several infringements of our sovereignty: recourse to the european regulation, strengthening of the commission's power to establish selection and import criteria or to define 'serious and widespread' breaches of the rules by third countries. for these reasons i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we oppose this report which leaves far too much room for the commission.
in writing. ‒ my colleague from the enf group, philippe loiseau, tabled two amendments (one to delete, the other to add) on behalf of the group, aimed at limiting the import of breeding animals and germinal products from third countries, or even banning them when zootechnical and genealogical rules are not respected. but apart from our amendments in plenary, the text was agreed by all the political groups. we therefore oppose this report, which leaves far too much room for manoeuvre for the commission, something which all the groups accepted without a shrug, and my vote naturally went against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michel dantin on breeding animals and their germinal products. the text proposes to increase legal certainty in this area and to simplify official and commission controls. i therefore approved this decision, which aims to safeguard the specific characteristics of each species, to preserve the strength of this european sector, to ensure special provisions for certain breeds and to guarantee a minimum level of rights and obligations for breeders and breeding establishments. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michel dantin. the aim of this text is to propose a single horizontal legislative framework for animal breeding to replace some 10 directives. this will help to increase legal certainty by clearly defining important terms, by strengthening the safeguarding of the specificities of each species or by protecting rare and endangered breeds. i have of course voted in favour of this very good report.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report by my colleague michel dantin on breeding animals and their germinal products, which aims to propose a single legislative framework for animal breeding to replace nearly a dozen directives. by harmonising the provisions on the management of the pedigree of breeding animals, the acceptance of those animals for breeding, performance testing and genetic evaluation, this regulation will make it possible to structure the community breeding acquis by species.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on breeding animals and their germinal products. the regulation negotiated between the european parliament, the commission and the council acknowledges several infringements of our national sovereignty on a subject which remains important for agriculture. the text will be applied without transposition into national law, since it is a regulation. under the guise of simplification, the commission is taking on new prerogatives in establishing selection criteria, import criteria, etc. the safeguard clause to protect european farmers from possible shortcomings or deviations from third countries is too weak. it depends on the definition of 'serious and widespread non-compliance' in a third country. the definition and the finding of such a failure are left to the commission.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it too much facilitates the import of the breeding animals concerned and therefore does not sufficiently protect european farmers.
in writing. ‒ the text to be voted on concerns the importation and trade in the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. it gives details, in particular, of the number of breeds with low numbers and the specific criteria for equines, and has the merit of reducing the commission's prerogatives in this respect. however, there are many negative aspects to the proposal. firstly, the text will be applied without transposition into national law since it is a regulation. secondly, despite the text's attempt to limit the commission's powers, it gives it new prerogatives, particularly in establishing selection and import criteria. finally, european farmers are too little protected by the safeguard clause against the drift of third countries. the role of this clause is, however, to avoid any 'serious and widespread breach of the rules laid down'. i therefore voted against this report, as i could not support it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report contains positive elements: the inclusion of breeds with low numbers, the inclusion of specific criteria for equines, etc. however, this regulation, which will be applied without prior transposition into french law, grants excessive prerogatives to the european commission. it also offers only limited protection to farmers against infringements by third countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union (eu) zootechnical legislation aims to encourage free trade within the eu and to facilitate the import of breeding animals and their genetic material. livestock farming plays a fundamental role in the conservation of rare species and thus in the protection of biodiversity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the best way to promote this breeding is to use purebred breeding stock or breeding stock of proven high genetic quality. the report proposes to empower the commission to carry out checks in third countries from which imports into the union of breeding animals or their semen, ova and embryos may be authorised and to set the conditions applicable to such imports, in particular as regards traceability through zootechnical certificates proving their origin. i am voting for this text which aims to increase the quality and diversity of breeds bred in europe.
in writing. ‒ on this text, we shared certain views with the rapporteur (in particular the inclusion of breeds with low numbers and the reintroduction of the specific criteria for equines). but the complex procedure he underwent ruined it. in the end, it leaves too much freedom to the european commission at the expense of the sovereignty of the states under the pretext of simplification, which is unthinkable. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this regulation acknowledges several infringements of our sovereignty on a subject which remains important for agriculture. the negative points noted are numerous. it will be applied without any margin of appreciation by national law, since it is a regulation, and under the guise of simplification, the commission is taking on new prerogatives in establishing selection and import criteria. the safeguard clause to protect european farmers from possible shortcomings or deviations from third countries is also too weak. it depends on the definition of 'serious and widespread non-compliance' in a third country. the definition and the finding of such a failure are left to the commission. in the end, we must vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes a simplification of legislation on animal breeding, which was previously regulated by a dozen or so directives. the adoption of this simplification report was necessary because farmers, particularly in france, are suffering from european legislation which is too vague and which some member states, such as france, are over-transposing into their national law.
in writing. ‒ the report on the zootechnical regulation, which i voted for, will provide for greater legal certainty by adopting a single horizontal legislative framework replacing the previous multiple vertical directives. the report is therefore part of a desire to simplify the rules. the introduction of the definitions of the terms 'breed', 'breeding programme' and 'rare and endangered breed', the introduction of special provisions, as well as all the provisions in this report, contribute to the reinforced control of the zootechnical sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to harmonise all directives relating to zootechnical legislation on the different species in europe. this regulation is a step forward for animal husbandry in the european union.
in writing. ‒ in its final version, the report is better than the commission's original proposal. but several aspects remain inhibitive: - this text will be applied without transposition into national law, since it is a regulation; - under the guise of simplification, the commission is assuming new prerogatives in establishing selection and import criteria; - the safeguard clause aimed at protecting european breeders from possible shortcomings or deviations from third countries is too weak. it depends on the definition of 'serious and widespread non-compliance' in a third country. the definition and the finding of such a failure are left to the commission. i cannot accept these attacks on the sovereignty of france and the interests of its farmers, who are already suffering too much at the hands of the european union, and i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which aims to propose a single horizontal legislative framework for animal breeding (for bovine, ovine, caprine, equine and porcine species) simplifying the ten vertical directives which have structured animal breeding up to now. the text will make it possible to improve the structure of the livestock sector and will lead in particular to a strengthening of the rules on the internal market for animals and genetic products and trade with third countries. i also welcome the increased controls by the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to propose a single horizontal legislative framework for animal breeding (concerning bovine, ovine, caprine, equine and porcine species) and replaces almost a dozen vertical directives structuring the community acquis on animal breeding by species. the agreement reached with the council and the commission makes it possible to increase legal certainty in the text, improves the definitions, proposes a balanced approach, guarantees a minimum level of rights and obligations for breeders, breeding bodies and breeding establishments and, finally, simplifies official controls and those carried out by the commission without compromising their efficiency and quality. finally, the european commission will also have the possibility to recommend corrective and preventive measures and to request the intensification of measures in case of serious deficiencies in the control system of a member state.
in writing. ‒ the report concerned the management of breeding animals and their germinal products. this text is not satisfactory because it gives the commission too much power over the treatment of these breeding animals. we have tabled two amendments which have been rejected by the majority of the other political groups. our farmers are therefore exposed to the drift of products from third countries. moreover, since the infringement of french sovereignty is a crucial criterion of our struggle in parliament, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ as european states face an unprecedented migration crisis, this scandalous report calls for harmonising national asylum systems and creating a distribution mechanism that would oblige member states to accept quotas of migrants. the text even suggests family reunification. it is absolutely unacceptable to organise the flooding of europe with migration when our peoples are already suffering daily from mass unemployment, increasing poverty, precariousness and growing social inequalities. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is sinking into the deepest of recoveries. it is the very inability of the member states to apply european rules and commitments that leads to the conclusion of dubious agreements with third countries and the unraveling of the acquis, if not to the neglect of international values and obligations. in the light of the revision of the dublin regulation, the common european asylum system and the commission's proposals on legal migration routes, i welcome this own-initiative report which advocates a reorientation of migration policy, a comprehensive, forward-looking, coherent, supportive and protective policy.
in writing. ‒ this report is a veritable catalogue of the immigration lobby. some examples: it advocates the creation of 'new safe and legal routes' for asylum seekers and refugees to enter the union; advocates the establishment of appropriate legal economic migration channels and the blue card system (para. 131); the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it encourages member states to 'take care to preserve the family unit' and thus wants to facilitate the snowball effect of family reunification. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ we are facing an unprecedented migration crisis in europe. i voted in favour of this report because we must work together to establish a new european asylum policy, to welcome refugees to europe and to safeguard the schengen area. it is urgent that the european union should have a common policy to protect its borders and, at the same time, that it should have a european coast guard and border guard corps. europe cannot abolish internal borders and leave the responsibility for the surveillance of external borders to the individual states.
in writing. ‒ among other bad ideas, this report advocates the creation of 'new safe and lawful routes' for asylum seekers and refugees to enter the union (recital r) and the establishment of 'appropriate' legal economic migration channels (recital v and w), calls for further measures to make the common european asylum system a 'truly uniform system' (paragraph 28), calls for the dublin system to be redesigned in the sense of more 'solidarity', i.e. through a distribution mechanism (paragraph 38), and encourages member states to 'take care to preserve family unity', i.e. family reunification (paragraph 49). i therefore voted against a proposal which favours an immigration policy which disregards the vital interests of our peoples and of the migrants themselves, a mass of uprooted people who have been given a mirror of an eldorado that does not exist. terrible leakage from the front...
in writing. ‒ i would like to denounce the regrettable agreement reached between the european union and turkey last month. turkey got what it wanted: €6 billion to support the reception of migrants on its territory, visa-free travel to europe for its citizens and the resumption of its accession process. erdogan, the perfect singing master, has won. but what about the migrants? actually, it's a shame, you know? it is a shame that the union is deliberately turning its back on them by sending them back to turkey, as if they were mere cattle. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. and a shame, given the number of violations of international law. moreover, even if this agreement with turkey has the effect of draining the sea route from the turkish coast to greece somewhat, other channels of penetration are already opening up. when you divert a river from its bed, it digs another one to flow... the smugglers are reorganizing and adapting to suit the needs of their clients... european governments must now open their eyes, take responsibility and europe must stop being so attractive.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the creation of 'new safe and legal routes' as well as the establishment of 'appropriate' legal economic migration channels and the blue card system. it also wants the common european asylum system to become a 'truly uniform system', supports the overhaul of the dublin system in the sense of more 'solidarity', encourages member states to 'protect and preserve family unity' and thus facilitates the snowball effect of family reunification. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ as the peoples of europe are faced with an unprecedented influx of migrants, this scandalous report calls for harmonising national asylum systems and creating a distribution mechanism that would oblige member states to accept quotas of migrants. the rapporteur goes further and even proposes to promote family reunification, the cost of which would be borne entirely by the taxpayers. it is absolutely unacceptable to organise the flood of migration in europe when our peoples are already suffering daily from mass unemployment, increasing poverty, a decline in their purchasing power and growing social inequalities. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the massive influx of migrants at the eu's borders requires appropriate measures to provide a european response to this problem. the situation in the mediterranean is particularly dire, given the many shipwrecks that occur each year. we cannot decently let these tragedies happen and not act. in this context, the commission has proposed the creation of a european border and coast guard. i have been campaigning for years for the creation of a european coastguard. i therefore welcome this proposal, but i will pay particular attention to the proper functioning of this project. this report highlights all sorts of issues that need to be addressed in order to put in place a holistic approach to migration. we cannot continue to respond to migration in an emergency. the union must have a long-term strategy in this area. i voted in favour of this report, which attempts to strike a balance between solidarity and security in the field of migration.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to establish cooperation between the european union and tunisia in the fields of migration, asylum and border management. it assesses the different policies at stake in the areas of migration, asylum and border management and makes a series of recommendations to improve coordination between these policies. i supported this report because i believe that the european union must work with its neighbours to develop healthy and constructive relations.
in writing. despite its weaknesses, i voted in favour of this text on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive approach to the issue of migration by the european union. i do not support all the provisions of this report, particularly as regards legal economic migration, but it does present a complete picture and offers some interesting answers to the challenges of the migration crisis. i think it is essential to recall parliament's support for the measures proposed by the european commission to deal with the pressure of migration. it was therefore necessary to underline the importance of establishing a common union list of safe countries of origin in order to facilitate the asylum process. i also support the need to adopt new european readmission agreements and to strengthen our cooperation with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which is not without its problems. indeed, i do not think that a mandatory mechanism for resettling refugees is an effective way of moving forward in resolving the crisis. responsibility for migration management should remain at the level of member states, which can take decisions according to their reception capacity. i call on the member states to manage this crisis in coordination with each other and remain in favour of a temporary resettlement mechanism on a voluntary basis. finally, i am against the creation of a humanitarian visa. the consequence would be a demand for air that our administrations, and in the first place the consulates, would not be able to cope with. this would put already vulnerable populations in even more difficulty.
in writing. ‒ this text is the result of a long compromise process, which has the merit of emerging from proposals that were put together in an emergency, under the pressure of events, and of looking at the issue of migration in a global way. while some of the commission's proposals, published on 6 april 2016, for the revision of the dublin regulation and the common european asylum system clearly undermine the asylum system in europe, this own-initiative report advocates a central system that would collect, process and distribute asylum applications from the hotspots, through a 'distribution key' system for each member state based on fair and objective criteria. the influx of refugees requires us to redefine the european project, as outlined in this text which i support.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the creation of 'safe and lawful new routes' for asylum seekers and refugees to enter the union. it also advocates the establishment of legal economic migration channels. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the encouragement of mass immigration, which directly threatens the security, cohesion and social system of european countries, as well as their macroeconomic balance, i voted against this text. in addition, the criteria for asylum should not be imposed by the european union but should be left to the discretion of each country.
in writing. ‒ with 3,771 people drowning in 2015 trying to reach europe and 1.83 million people trying to cross the eu's external borders, it was high time to act on all fronts of migration policy. the european parliament has long advocated a comprehensive, common and supportive approach to migration, in order to share responsibilities fairly, while placing fundamental rights at the heart of the process. this report sets out this position and aims to tackle all facets of the migration challenge. it proposes action lines concerning, in particular, cooperation with the countries of origin of migrants, the fight against trafficking in human beings, hot spots, the schengen area, the management of external borders, and the reception and integration of third-country nationals. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report, at a time when the eu is sinking into the depths of the re-listings. in the light of the revision of the dublin regulation, the common european asylum system and the commission's proposals on legal migration routes, i welcome the adoption of this text which proposes a reorientation of migration policy, a policy which must be comprehensive, forward-looking, coherent, supportive and protective.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report, which i acknowledge has some good qualities but cannot endorse in its entirety. unlike most people, i do not share the principle of a mandatory and permanent mechanism for the resettlement of refugees. the committee also stressed the need to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. i do not forget, however, that the migration issue would be better handled if the states were more in solidarity with each other. i therefore remain in favour of a resettlement mechanism on a voluntary and temporary basis. i am also opposed to the creation of a european humanitarian visa which, as it is currently drafted, would have the effect of multiplying applications globally and thus overloading our embassies and consulates, which may not have the right staff in terms of numbers and skills to cope with the risk of such an influx. finally, i am very wary of all the recommendations on integration, family reunification and the development of legal immigration routes.
in writing. ‒ this report (33 pages, plus the opinions of 8 other committees) has 134 paragraphs. it is a veritable catalogue of the three swiss of the immigration lobby. some examples: it calls for the creation of 'new safe and legal routes' to allow asylum seekers and refugees to enter the union (recital r) as well as for the establishment of 'appropriate' legal economic migration channels (recital v and w) and for the blue card system (paragraph 131); it calls for further measures to make the common european asylum system a 'truly uniform system' (paragraph 28), supports the overhaul of the dublin system in the sense of more 'solidarity', i.e. through a distribution mechanism (paragraph 38), and encourages member states to 'take care to preserve family unity', i.e. to facilitate the snowball effect of family reunification (paragraph 49). i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues roberta metsola and kashetu kyenge on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive approach to the issue of migration by the european union. this report aims to assess several policies on the subjects of migration, asylum and border control. the eu is also committed to ensuring the integration of migrants or the return of those who do not meet the protection criteria, and to cooperating more closely with turkey in managing migration flows. in view of the present situation, the validation of such a report seems indispensable.
in writing. ‒ the text, which has no legal value, aims to address various issues related to the migration issue, such as relocations and resettlements, and to propose a long-term strategy for managing the refugee crisis. however, while there are some interesting elements, i abstained because the text proposed a number of proposals which were ineffective or undesirable in the face of the refugee crisis we are currently experiencing.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european union's migration policy which has been presented to us advocates european leadership and solidarity in managing the migrant crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. a european approach is therefore needed to manage asylum applications and above all to ensure a fair distribution of asylum seekers between european countries. but unfortunately this report is concerned with the question of respecting the fundamental rights of these men, women and children who are fleeing their countries, failing to address the externalization of the problem to countries like turkey and allowing itself to be overwhelmed by the security aspects of the european response. that is why i have chosen to abstain on this report, which is about the right response: a european response, not confiscated by national egos, but which forgets the necessary human dimension.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the 'need for a comprehensive approach to migration by the european union'. it is a veritable catalogue of the three swiss of the immigration lobby. consider some examples. it advocates the creation of 'new safe and legal routes' for asylum seekers and refugees to enter the union (recital r). it advocates the establishment of 'appropriate' legal economic migration channels (recitals v and w) and the blue card system (para. 131). he called for further measures to make the common european asylum system a 'truly uniform system' (paragraph 28). it is in favour of the dublin system being reworked to make it more 'solidarity-oriented', i.e. through a distribution mechanism (paragraph 38). it encourages member states to 'take care to preserve the family unit' and thus wants to facilitate the snowball effect of family reunification (para. 49). this report therefore seeks to solve the problem of mass immigration by more mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this long report because it is a text that wants to organise two legal routes of mass immigration: one for asylum seekers, for whom it wants to open 'safe routes'; the other for economic migrants, whom it wants to bring in by the millions (!) to make up for the demographic deficit of certain european countries such as germany. the anti-schengen amendment of the enl group, which wanted to recall that 'the abolition of internal borders contributes to uncontrolled immigration and terrorism', received only 73 votes out of 751. poor french!
in writing. - i voted against this report. he wants to plunge the european union into mass immigration from the outset, and he has a catalogue of proposals, each one more aberrant than the last. it advocates the creation of 'new safe and legal routes' for asylum seekers and refugees, the establishment of legal economic migration channels, the standardisation of the european asylum system, complementary to the dublin system, which aims at greater solidarity through a distribution mechanism, etc. in view of the present agricultural and economic crisis, the european union continues to indulge in the destruction of an already fractured europe, and adds a serious social crisis to the list of ills of the member states and their citizens.
in writing. ‒ eu member states had committed themselves to taking in 160 000 asylum seekers by the end of 2015. to date, just over a thousand have been relocated from italy and greece to the rest of europe. in doing so, the member states have failed to respect their commitments. after the recent conclusion of the highly controversial agreement with turkey, this own-initiative report reaffirms parliament's voice in the current debate. the text thus proposes many concrete ways forward on all fronts of migration policy: cooperation with countries of origin, including development, european arrangements for the reception and resettlement of refugees, and the fight against migrant smuggling and human trafficking. i welcome that and therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing a series of crises that threaten its very existence. one of these challenges is the management of migration flows. the selfishness of a number of european states has dealt a new blow to the principle of solidarity, which is supposed to govern the functioning of the union. in this context, the european parliament - whose position is summarised in the metsola/kyenge report - is the only european institution capable of proposing a responsible and united plan for overcoming the crisis. since it is impossible to live in a geography of constant migration, the report proposes to tackle decisively the root causes of migration: war, persecution, poverty, climate change. but this cooperation with third countries must not exempt european countries from taking a fair and equitable share in the reception of refugees: europe must provide migrants with legal pathways of access. finally, the dublin agreements have run their course and it is now essential to create a permanent resettlement/relocation instrument to provide relief to frontline countries. i voted for this report, which proposes ways in which the european commission must urgently explore to save europe from another unflattering compromise with turkey.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the alarming situation in the mediterranean: in 2015, 1.83 million people were apprehended while trying to cross the eu's borders illegally and more than 3 771 people went missing in the mediterranean during the same period. the report does not, however, propose any solution. the eu-turkey agreement, which was negotiated by the german government alone, is described as a "new cooperation initiative", even though it acknowledges a few lines behind "the appalling living conditions of millions of people living in refugee camps, including in turkey". and even if some mild criticism is voiced, "ship captains or non-governmental organisations who actually help people in distress at sea should not risk being sanctioned for it". i am voting against this text, which legitimises the union's disastrous migration policy.
in writing. - this extended report is an inventory of the immigration situation. for example, it promotes family reunification - a powerful driver of mass immigration - by encouraging member states to 'take care to preserve family unity', which we oppose. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. this comprehensive report on the situation in the mediterranean and on migration to europe calls for the introduction of wide-ranging reforms for the pooling and management of migration: common asylum system, distribution system, facilitation of illegal immigration by establishing new routes, strengthening of family reunification, etc. i am opposed to this positive and naive view of immigration and its handling at european level and above the sovereignty of states, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which supports the irresponsible policy of migrant quotas that the european union has been pursuing for almost a year now and which only encourages illegal immigration. in this text, everything pleads for an unconditional welcome of migrants when we are unable to welcome them with dignity (as evidenced by the "jungle" of calais or the slums that emerge at the gates of some cities), to provide them with housing, employment or the means to integrate properly. almost nothing is said about the question of the return to their country of origin of illegal immigrants who have been denied the right to asylum: 40,000 a year in france alone, of which less than 10% are actually expelled. our migration policy will only be credible and supported by our peoples if it is finally accompanied by a real firmness towards illegal immigrants who are defrauding the asylum system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the migration crisis facing the european union today is unprecedented and only innovative and pragmatic solutions will allow europe to respond to it. in this debate, there is no place for populism which delays the emergence of real solutions by fixing the debates on lies. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i have particularly stressed the importance of the social inclusion of refugees. this can only be achieved by their integration into the labour market. the emphasis should therefore be on language learning and the recognition of diplomas and qualifications. but i also wanted to give the member states a warning: the relocation of refugees must be in areas where they have job prospects.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain from voting on the report on the situation in the mediterranean, considering that the political line it advocates cannot provide the answers needed to restore legal and controlled migration in europe. the report provides for a permanent and binding resettlement mechanism which ignores the reception capacities of the member states. the report also stresses that the temporary re-establishment of internal borders has reduced the flow of migrants, but that the report gives priority to supporting the schengen area rather than to tightening controls. however, the report explores a number of important issues such as the necessary revision of the dublin iii protocols, the importance of combating the trafficking and exploitation of migrants and refugees, relocation and the eu's obligation to help those who risk their lives crossing the mediterranean in makeshift boats. for all these reasons, and in the spirit of consistency and respect for the position of my political family, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. i abstained on this report on the situation in the mediterranean and the european union's approach to managing the refugee crisis, because while there are positive points in the text, such as the recognition of the principle of solidarity, opposition to the criminalisation of ngos, the obligation to relocate and the creation of legal and safe pathways for migration, there are also a number of very negative points. the report stresses the need to strengthen the effectiveness of the european return system, which is in breach of international law and fundamental rights, but also the need to maintain border controls and the rapid establishment of 'hotspots' at eu borders. it also stressed the role of third countries, such as turkey, in 'managing illegal migration flows' and the need to externalise borders through cooperation agreements with third countries, including readmission agreements. in the end, the report suggests that the european approach to migration will end up being a policy of returning migrants, a vision far removed from the humanistic aspirations that underpin the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report offers no solution to the terrible migrant crisis. on the contrary, all the measures he suggests are further incentives for those who would still hesitate to risk their lives to reach europe. families are encouraged to send their minor children on this perilous journey alone. the major problems posed by the presence of large numbers of recent migrants are forgotten. the material impossibility of properly caring for hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom have been traumatised by the war and by their travel and living conditions, is completely ignored. the problem of returning migrants who are not entitled to refugee status is not at all solved. the will of the peoples of the european union is obviously not in the logic of this text. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the mediterranean, due to the migration crisis, is very worrying. i would remind you that this own-initiative report is not binding, but i wanted to give it my support. however, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states must fulfil their obligations, in particular in terms of emergency relocation measures. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries which are in the front line of migration arrivals, such as greece and italy, in order to ensure that the 'hot spots' function better.
in writing. ‒ with this report, which i fully support, the european parliament is advocating a comprehensive and common approach to migration and asylum, aimed at reorienting the eu's migration policy in its various aspects. solidarity and responsibility-sharing cannot remain empty words and must be translated into concrete actions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. they also call for a binding and mandatory resettlement mechanism and for member states to honour their commitments on the relocation of asylum seekers. beyond the need to respect our obligations in the area of search and rescue at sea, it is essential to develop legal and safe access routes to the union to prevent people from risking their lives by fleeing war and persecution. in this sense, i welcome the fact that parliament is voting in favour of the creation of a european humanitarian visa. finally, the union must change its paradigm on legal economic migration, which represents a chance and a real opportunity to fill the gaps in the european labour market.
in writing. ‒ a particularly sensitive subject for european citizens, this report demonstrates the european parliament's willingness to be fully involved in the debate on resolving the refugee crisis, in particular by urging member states to adopt a coordinated and comprehensive approach to the issue. while it is regrettable that the european union's competences in the field of migration policy are more than limited, if not almost non-existent, this report nevertheless recalls the need for european action as the only relevant and serious response to the scale of the migration crisis. meps also stressed the need to establish legal and safe routes to europe for those seeking political asylum, which is an obligation for european states under international law, and the need for a new system for the union based on common solidarity and shared responsibility between countries. i therefore voted in favour of this text, in accordance with these political lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for a holistic approach to the management of the migration crisis in the mediterranean. in 2015, 1.83 million people crossed the external borders of the union illegally. in the face of an alarming humanitarian situation, it is necessary to recall the principle of solidarity which binds the european countries. saving lives must be a top priority, and funds must be allocated to the extent necessary. the text calls for a review of the current asylum system which does not take adequate account of the current migratory pressures faced by member states at the union's external borders. a revision of schengen is also being requested. i therefore supported this report, which provides new ways of implementing a policy of responsible and humanistic management of the refugee crisis, facilitating access for refugees fleeing conflict zones and advocating the implementation of readmission agreements.
in writing. ‒ the european union must rise to the challenge of the arrival of thousands of refugees fleeing war and persecution in the middle east. efficiency and moral imperatives call for a common response based on solidarity and the responsibility of the member states. parliament has called on the member states to honour their commitments: they have promised to take in 160 000 refugees from greece and italy and must act immediately! it is unacceptable that only 600 of them have actually been relocated to date. parliament called for a thorough overhaul of the asylum system and the dublin rules, which were not adapted to the situation. we call on the commission to prepare an ambitious legislative proposal establishing a centralised european asylum system capable of distributing refugees fairly, in solidarity and in a binding manner within the union. we also demand the creation of safe and legal passageways, so that refugees do not have to resort to smugglers, who risk their lives. our union is at a crossroads: either we succeed in identifying a common and solidary response which will strengthen our institutions; the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ this report is about the current surge in migration from the mediterranean. the report is the product of the pro-immigration lobby and advocates, among other things, the creation of 'safe and legal new routes' for asylum seekers and refugees to enter the european union, the establishment of 'appropriate' legal economic migration channels, and encourages member states to 'ensure that the family unit is preserved'. he wants to make it easier for the family reunion to snowball. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ sad anniversary of the adoption of this report, which began in april 2015 after the death of nearly 800 migrants in a shipwreck in southern italy. one year later, the humanitarian crisis is still growing. yet the heads of state and government are showing increasing cynicism. not content with not being up to the task, they are taking dangerous decisions: from the question of the right to asylum, the 'refugee trials', to the scandalous agreement between the european union and turkey, nothing is too shocking to prevent refugees from gaining access to european soil. this report rightly stresses the need for legal access routes, for reinforced search and rescue at sea and for mutual recognition of asylum decisions. unfortunately, he is not really critical of the decisions taken in recent months. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. my group, the gue/ngl, tabled a number of amendments to denounce these decisions, all of which were rejected. this report, which has not been criticised, misses its purpose, and i abstained to support the few positive points.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some positive points and recommendations (greater use of impact analyses, particularly on competitiveness, and public consultations, emphasis on ex post evaluations, emphasis on the principle of priority for smes), but it is feared that many of them are not being applied in practice. in view of the overall balance of the report, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject.
in writing. ‒ while the principle of subsidiarity, enshrined in article 5 of the treaty on european union, is fundamental to decision-making within the union in that it aims to determine the most relevant level of intervention in areas of shared competence, as is the principle of proportionality which derives from it, this report does nothing to ensure that it is more faithfully respected. while denouncing the commission's rejection of the yellow card procedures whereby national parliaments invite the commission to reconsider a legislative proposal when it has been the subject of 'reasoned opinions' protests by one third of the national parliaments of the member states , it merely calls on the commission to engage in a dialogue with the national parliaments, and rejects the introduction of a veto, a red card which would actually enshrine the principle of subsidiarity. i have opposed this report because it refuses to take the necessary steps to enforce a fundamental principle, a blatant failure of eurocratic fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted without hesitation in favour of my british colleague's report. it is time someone reminded our assembly of the importance of the principle of subsidiarity in the legislative work of our institutions. this is an important point which we tend to forget, or even deny, because subsidiarity is one of the last weapons left to european nations when their interests do not correspond to the dictates which the commission wants to impose on them. and subsidiarity - have we forgotten? - is enshrined in the maastricht treaty, adopted more than 25 years ago. it was even with the principle of subsidiarity that the then recalcitrant citizens of my country were convinced to vote in favour of maastricht in the referendum organised by françois mitterrand. the socialists have now tried, in a subtle way, to change the substance of the report to remove the principle of subsidiarity. europe will only survive if the institutions understand that subsidiarity must remain the foundation on which legislation can be built that benefits all europeans without harming the interests of the member states.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i had to vote against this report which, while fully identifying the disease of the european union, is deeply mistaken about the cure. the report concerned the principle of subsidiarity, which is enshrined in the european treaties and more particularly in article 5 of the teu, and sought to determine the most relevant level of political intervention: european, national or local. a principle of common sense regularly and shamelessly violated by the european commission, which in recent years has only accepted one "yellow card" from the national parliaments, which had judged in 2012 that the commission was exceeding its field of competence by simply wanting to abolish the right to strike. the report therefore criticises the commission's arbitrariness in regularly flouting the rule of proportionality. but it does not go far enough and merely calls for 'impact studies' and more dialogue with national parliaments. when david was threatened by goliath, he did not simply kneel down and beg.
in writing. ‒ this report examines the extent to which the union respects the principle of subsidiarity, which limits the scope of action and the powers of the european institutions. the rapporteur notes that only a yellow card procedure has succeeded in persuading the commission to abandon a legislative proposal. it should be recalled that this type of procedure enables national parliaments to oblige the commission to respect the principle of subsidiarity. it is in this context that this report calls on the commission to establish a constructive dialogue with the national authorities and to improve its impact studies. although this text is a rather realistic assessment of the present situation, the proposals made in it are absolutely ridiculous in order to force the european union to respect the sovereignty of the member states. as such, a red card procedure would give national governments a veto right whenever they consider a proposal contrary to the vital interests of their people. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against this report. i am bitterly sorry that certain amendments have been adopted whose content both weighs down and weakens the european legislative process in favour of national particularisms. i refer in particular to the 'green card' procedure, which allows national parliaments to submit legislative proposals to the commission. is such a procedure really necessary when it is precisely the local elected meps who have to defend the interests of their fellow citizens before the european institutions? in addition, some amendments adopted in plenary call for mid-term and final evaluations of the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i believe that these additional checks would only slow down an already complex legislative procedure. above all, how can the need for such assessments be justified when the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation provides for the strengthening of impact studies on subsidiarity control? at a time when europe is being (de) constructed by national backwardness, parliament is sending the wrong message to those who believe in a true union.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report deals with the annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality. it sets out the state of play of the procedures and mechanisms for monitoring the subsidiarity and proportionality of national parliaments. the rapporteur stresses the importance of political dialogue between the national and european institutions and the possibility for national parliaments to propose the adoption, amendment or rejection of certain legislative provisions. i have supported this report because i believe that cooperation between national and european institutions improves respect for the competences of the member states and promotes the effective implementation of standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are fundamental principles of the european union. it is essential that these two principles be respected and that the institutions and national parliaments ensure this through careful scrutiny. in order to reduce the democratic deficit, it is crucial that in-depth subsidiarity impact assessments are carried out by the commission with a view to increasing the confidence of citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, enshrined in article 5 teu, the european union can only intervene if it is able to act more effectively than the member states at national or local level. the report regrets the ineffectiveness of the yellow card procedure, which is the main tool used by national parliaments to force the commission in brussels to respect the principle of subsidiarity. it also deplored the massive use of 'delegated acts', i.e. commission decree-laws. unfortunately, the report merely calls on the commission to engage with national parliaments and improve its impact studies. i voted against the report because it is a frank statement but does not respect the sovereignty of the nations.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this red card would be a veto right which would allow each state to enforce its sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the yellow card procedure is the main tool used by national parliaments to force the brussels commission to respect the principle of subsidiarity. it obliges the commission to reconsider a legislative proposal when it has been the subject of 'reasoned opinions', i.e. protests, by one third of the national parliaments of the member states. subsidiarity is therefore a decoy. the commission does not respect it and violates it either directly or indirectly by means of 'delegated acts', i.e. decree-laws, which it uses massively, as the report deplores. the report has the merit of denouncing this situation. but it is disappointing that it merely calls on the commission to engage in dialogue with national parliaments and to improve its impact studies. the commission's proposal is to be implemented by a new procedure, the 'red card' procedure, which would allow each member state to oppose a commission legislative proposal if it considers that it is contrary to its vital interests. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality proposed by my colleague sajjad karim. the report highlights the fact that extensive impact assessments that assess compliance with subsidiarity in a thorough manner are essential to improve citizens' confidence. i have endorsed this commission proposal which helps decision-makers to assess whether legislation is in line with eu principles and improves transparency on the outcome of negotiation periods. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this text dealt with two commission reports on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the european union, and in particular on the link with national parliaments and on the use of impact assessments in the legislative procedure at european level. the report suggests, in particular, that national parliaments should be better integrated into the legislative process. i voted in favour of this text because it is balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the reports on subsidiarity and proportionality. the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental. the eu can only intervene if it is able to act more effectively than the member states. the yellow card procedure is the main tool used by national parliaments to force the commission to respect this principle. it obliges the commission to reconsider a legislative proposal once it has been the subject of a 'reasoned opinion' by one third of the national parliaments. the report notes that this yellow card has only once succeeded in persuading the commission to abandon a proposal. it's a very thin record. the report has the merit of denouncing this situation. but it is disappointing that it merely calls on the commission to engage in a dialogue with national parliaments and to improve its impact studies. a red card procedure should be created, allowing each member state to oppose a commission legislative proposal if it is detrimental to its vital interest. the right of veto would allow each state to enforce its sovereignty. it would be a first step towards replacing the european union with a europe of the nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, although it does acknowledge that the eu is infringing the principle of subsidiarity, it only proposes homeopathic remedies to deal with it: dialogue, impact studies, the creation of a 'green card' allowing national parliaments to make suggestions to the commission...
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report aims to substantially amend the definition of the principle of subsidiarity, currently laid down in article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the principle of subsidiarity is to limit the european union's intervention outside its exclusive competence and thus to preserve the prerogatives of sovereign states. the principle of proportionality is closely associated with it. in practice, the application of the principle of subsidiarity is lacking and the european commission has made many distortions of the principle. the appeals of national parliaments are largely illusory. the appeal procedure should therefore be strengthened by establishing a genuine red card mechanism for national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ this report hypocritically discusses subsidiarity and proportionality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this means that tafta could not be put to a vote in a member state (referendum, congress of parliamentarians). the council also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to promote the development of a common foreign and security policy. all royal powers will be removed from popular control. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality define the scope of eu action and its legitimacy. the yellow card procedure, which is sent by national parliaments to the commission, is a means of redress in cases of abuse of power. however, i note that this procedure has only been successful once, against a challenge to the right to strike in 2012. the rest of the time, she was treated with a certain autocratic assurance. so this warning tool is a decoy. the report itself notes this, but its measures are not radical enough, since they recommend that the commission should engage in dialogue with national parliaments. we would be in favour of the introduction of a veto power for the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that this yellow card has only once succeeded in persuading the commission to abandon a proposal. it was in 2012, about the scandalous "monti 2" proposal that questioned the right to strike. it is a very meagre balance sheet because the rest of the time the commission has rejected the other yellow cards with a certain arrogance. subsidiarity is therefore a decoy. the commission does not respect it and violates it either directly or indirectly by means of 'delegated acts', i.e. decree-laws, which it uses massively, as the report deplores. the report does have the merit of denouncing this situation, but it is disappointing in that it merely calls on the commission to engage in a dialogue with national parliaments and to improve its impact studies. the commission's proposal is not a simple one, but it is a very important one. the report must therefore be voted against.
in writing. this report focuses on strengthening and perfecting the internal market, including strengthening the powers of the commission, reducing the role of states as mere 'partners' responsible for implementing the policy defined in brussels, and implementing integration tools in an aggressive manner and without consultation. i am in favour of a europe of nations and not a europe of the market, and therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the annual reports for 2012 and 2013 published by the european commission on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the european union. i have in particular supported the provisions to better integrate national parliaments into the legislative process, in particular with the creation of the 'green card', the better incorporation of the 'yellow card' procedures and the introduction of an impact assessment at the end of each legislative process to ensure that the outcome of the examination work is always in line with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are the foundations of the european union's policy, as they guarantee action as close as possible to european citizens and respectful of the specificities of each state. in voting on the report on subsidiarity and proportionality, we are recalling the importance of maintaining these principles in the conduct of european policy. we also call for in-depth impact assessments to be carried out at the end of the legislative negotiations to ensure that legislation is in line with the union's fundamental principles and to strengthen the democratic process through greater transparency.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that the so-called yellow card procedure has only succeeded once in persuading the commission to abandon a proposal, in 2012. the rest of the time the commission arrogantly rejected the objections. subsidiarity is therefore a decoy. the commission does not respect it and violates it directly or indirectly by means of 'delegated acts', that is to say, by means of decree-laws, which it uses massively, as the report deplores. the text condemns this situation. but it is disappointing that it merely calls on the commission to engage in dialogue with national parliaments and to improve its impact studies. the commission's proposal is not a simple one, but it is a very important one. this would be the first step towards replacing the european union with a europe of nations. i am therefore voting against this report as it stands, because i am too timid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality, whose initial vote had been postponed due to the negotiations on the better law-making institutional agreement. with this text, i wanted to support better integration of national parliaments into the european legislative process through a 'green card' procedure, giving the possibility to ask the european commission to work on an initiative, revision or withdrawal of eu legislation. it is also proposed that an impact assessment should be carried out at the end of each legislative process to ensure that the outcome of the review work is in line with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which recalls that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are an integral part of the union's policy-making. these two principles are the basis for determining whether eu action is more likely to achieve policy objectives or whether national or regional action is preferable. the 2012 and 2013 annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality highlight in particular the importance of in-depth impact assessments, which provide information and assess the respect of subsidiarity in an in-depth manner. in the end, respect for these two principles will improve the confidence of citizens and help us to achieve the political objectives we set ourselves by using the most effective means.
in writing. ‒ this report denounces the commission's derogatory attitude to the yellow card procedure. it illustrates very well the anti-democratic nature of the european institutions. unfortunately, he is too vague about the measures to be taken to remedy this, and in particular about the possibility of introducing a red card which would be a right of veto and would allow each state to enforce its sovereignty. it would thus be a first step towards replacing the european union with a europe of the nations. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the text on the programme for a sharp and efficient regulation. this report aims to identify administrative constraints in order to lighten the european bureaucracy that weighs on our businesses and our citizens. it advocates, for example, more frequent use of impact analyses, particularly on competitiveness, and stresses the importance of ex post evaluations. while it is an honour to want to tackle over-regulation, we dispute some of the recommendations in this report, in particular the one to give priority to regulations over directives. the rapporteur never calls into question the european commission, whose measures are the source of the administrative burdens that economic operators have to bear on a daily basis.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some positive points and recommendations (greater use of impact analyses, particularly on competitiveness, and public consultations, emphasis on ex post evaluations, emphasis on the principle of priority for smes), but it is feared that many of them are not being applied in practice. in view of the overall balance of the report, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which allows policies and legislation to be developed in such a way that they achieve their objectives at minimal cost. the programme will help to develop more open and transparent legislation, based on the best available data and with the involvement of stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ this report on the european commission's 'programme for sharp and effective regulation', which aims to identify binding or ineffective regulations in order to put in place more effective european regulation, has many positive points, from the call for more frequent use of impact studies to the principle of priority given to smes too often limited by administrative constraints. however, i could not agree with it because it welcomes the measures taken by the commission, which is often responsible for the excess of regulation, and because it insists, in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states, on the primacy of the european regulation, which is wrongly presented as strengthening the internal market. furthermore, no concrete application corresponding to the positive points set out above is proposed.
in writing. - i rejected this report that curses the consequences of the causes he cherishes. it responds to the commission's communication entitled 'programme for better regulation and performance (refit): results and next steps', which sets out guidelines for reducing legislative overproduction, proposals which are reproduced in the 'better regulation' package. the report does, however, point to a number of interesting elements: the need to clarify the lines between implementing and delegated acts; the importance of impact assessments, particularly on competitiveness; and the need to increase public consultation and ex post evaluations; the principle of priority for smes, which includes a desire to reduce the administrative burden on enterprises. however, in order to remedy these problems, the report recommends measures which will have the exact opposite effect. the rapporteur stresses the more effective nature of the regulation, which is direct and binding: advocating its increased use is a complete disregard for national parliaments. the report also seems to forget that the commission is primarily responsible for this legislative bulimia and in particular for the burdens on our companies.
in writing. ‒ the report contains positive points and recommendations (advocating greater use of impact assessments, the principle of priority for smes, clarification of delegated/implementing acts) but it is feared that many of them are not being applied in practice. other points are not acceptable at all (eu regulation more effective than directives, much praise for the commission when it is responsible for the overregulation that is falling on our companies). in view of the overall balance of the report, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the programme for a sharp and efficient regulation is designed to identify administrative constraints in order to lighten the european bureaucracy that weighs on our businesses and our citizens. the report recommends, for example, more frequent use of impact analyses, particularly on competitiveness, and stresses the importance of ex post evaluations. while it is an honour to want to tackle over-regulation, we dispute some of the recommendations in this report, in particular the one to give priority to regulations over directives. the rapporteur never calls into question the european commission, which is the main source of the administrative burdens that economic operators have to bear on a daily basis. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report gives an overview of the refit programme, which aims to reduce administrative burdens, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and improve legislation in order to better achieve the union's objectives in full compliance with the treaties. this own-initiative report stresses the importance of preserving this momentum and ensuring that the institutions agree on a new, strong interinstitutional agreement. i have supported this report because i believe that the rationalization of european legislation is aimed at improving the implementation of the rules and the achievement of the objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the 'programme for better regulation and performance (refit) '. while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, this programme, which aims, inter alia, to reduce administrative burdens and simplify legislation, makes european legislation lighter, simpler and cheaper. it is particularly interesting to note the commission's commitment to consider less stringent rules for smes where this is reasonable and feasible, while checking the environmental, social and economic impacts of the proposed draft legislative act.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's refit programme was set up in december 2012 to identify and address inefficient european administrative constraints or regulations. the report also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation body to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. finally, this report seems to ignore the fact that the commission is primarily responsible for the 'over-regulation' which is particularly burdensome for our companies. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ abstention: this report contains positive points and recommendations but it is feared that no concrete application will be given to them.
in writing. ‒ the report concludes (paragraph 5) that the european regulation, which is directly effective and binding in all its elements, is the most effective tool and therefore preferable to the directive, and that it has the effect of strengthening the internal market. we are totally and firmly opposed to both of these views. it welcomed the commitment to the better regulation programme. we voted against the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission on 9 march 2016 in plenary. this report too often praises or rejoices at the measures taken by the commission, which is the main culprit in 'over-regulation', the administrative burden on our businesses, and which deserves a final red card. it contains positive points and recommendations, but there is concern that many of them will not be put into practice. other points are not acceptable under any circumstances. i therefore abstained on the vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sylvia-yvonne kaufmann on the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit). the refit programme aims to reduce administrative burdens, remove regulatory burdens and simplify legislation in order to achieve the strategic objectives set while reducing administrative burdens. i support this proposal and would like to remind you that the commission must also be encouraged to continue its efforts to create jobs by reducing regulatory and administrative constraints and to ensure that general interest objectives are preserved. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at the implementation of the so-called refit programme for a sharp and efficient regulation, which was implemented to respond to the idea that the european union had become too bureaucratic. the text welcomes the commission's commitment to reduce administrative burdens and limit the effects of legislative over-bidding, which is particularly the case in france. i therefore voted in favour of this good report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the 'programme for a sharp and effective regulation'. the report contains positive points and recommendations, but there is concern that many of them will not be put into practice. other points are not acceptable under any circumstances. this report too often welcomes or rejoices in the measures taken by the commission, when it is the first to blame for the overregulation and administrative burdens on our businesses and therefore deserves a definitive red card.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. it is true that it aims to improve legislation and has the particular merit of being concerned with smes. but it is an ode to the european regulatory process that i cannot endorse. finally, he welcomed the commission's decision to combat 'over-regulation', forgetting that it was the first to be responsible for it...
in writing. - i abstained. the report takes stock of the refit programme, the 'programme for a sharp and effective regulation', launched by the european commission in december 2012. the guidelines include identifying administrative constraints or ineffective eu regulations, with a view to making changes. the rapporteur also tries to highlight the positive as well as the negative aspects of the refit programme. on the whole, good measures have been adopted, such as the principle of priority for smes, whose ambitions should not be reduced. the commission's programme, on the other hand, favours regulation (directly applicable in national law) instead of directive, administrative burdens etc. the report does not mention the 'compressor-roller' effect of european legislation and the resulting 'over-regulation'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this programme, launched in 2012, has the a priori positive objective of simplifying the regulatory burden caused by european legislation, which is a handicap for smes. the report recommends, in particular, the introduction of simplified standards applicable exclusively to smes. in addition, frequent impact assessments should make it possible to measure the potentially harmful effects of each regulatory act. while this may seem a laudable objective, it should be remembered that the european union is largely responsible for the increase in legal and administrative constraints hindering the development of smes. the report also calls for greater use of legislation with direct effect instead of directives, which require prior transposition into national law, under the guise of administrative simplification. we are protesting against this new attempt to interfere in the national legislation of sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ the commission launched its 'programme for better regulation and efficiency' (refit) in 2013. the commission's assessment, on which parliament is to vote, notes the tendency towards 'over-regulation', too many european laws. while it is true that the european union regulates both the size of asparagus and labour law, the aim here is to seek more in advance to limit the "administrative and regulatory burdens", a "burden" for companies and for the completion of the single market. under the pretext of aid to smes, this is indeed deregulation and a breach of workers' rights, the first to be satisfied with this being the european union of large companies, business europe. the report recommends that this 'culture' of deregulation be extended to the administrations of the member states. myriam el khomri did not wait for them! the report supports the continuation of an expert body for impact studies, which is already undermined by the lobbies. this genuine political tool will be able to block any legislation that would offer greater protection to citizens and will ultimately be integrated into the 'regulatory cooperation body' provided for in tafta. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report contains interesting points, such as the principle of priority for smes. however, it is very likely that no practical application will be made of the follow-up to it. i also disagree with the strengthening of the internal market and the commission's untimely and hegemonic decisions, even though it is directly responsible for the regulatory overload. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme pursues commendable objectives: more efficient, understandable and adapted european regulation, better regulated use of delegated acts, etc. however, the report says that the european regulation, which is directly binding in all its elements, is the most effective tool and should therefore be preferred to the directive, which we reject. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome one. this report therefore calls for abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the commission's refit programme, which aims to make eu legislation simpler and cheaper. in a difficult economic context, it is necessary to reduce administrative burdens, especially for smes, and to limit as far as possible the regulatory over-bidding, practiced in particular by france, which penalises many major economic sectors such as agriculture.
in writing. ‒ in the face of dense and complex european regulation, it seems to me essential to reduce administrative constraints and regulatory burdens. the initiative we are taking is part of the search for this much-needed simplification, while respecting the fundamental principles of the european union, the first of which is proportionality and subsidiarity. i therefore voted in favour of this text and i would like to welcome the work of the european commission in support of the refit programme, which is part of the same quest for simplification of legislation.
in writing. ‒ this report contains a number of positive points and recommendations, particularly concerning smes. it recognises the commission's expressed wish for less stringent rules for smes where this is both reasonable and feasible. it called on the commission not to reduce its ambitions to reduce the administrative burden on smes and not to call into question the general interest objectives pursued, particularly in the areas of consumer protection, the environment, social protection, health and safety. but other points are dissuasive: the report suggests that the european regulation, which is directly effective and binding in all its elements, is the most effective tool and therefore preferable to the directive, and that it has the effect of strengthening the internal market. i am firmly opposed to both of these principles. the text also often praises the commission, whose results should rather put all supporters of the european union to shame. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ the idea that the european union is too bureaucratic and too far away from citizens is a daily concern. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the european commission's commitment to better regulation. the challenge is to reduce administrative burdens, particularly for smes, and to increase the compliance of european legislation with the objectives set out in the treaties. above all, it will limit regulatory over-bidding, which is particularly common in france.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs kaufmann's report. the refit programme aims to consolidate best regulatory practice and to simplify and improve european legislation. the report stresses that the primary objective of the refit programme must be the quality of legislation, not its cost. in these circumstances, it must not lead to a weakening of standards in social, environmental, consumer and worker protection matters. the report supports the commission's desire to simplify and make european legislation more effective, but makes it clear that this should not be seen as deregulation. it also stresses the importance of transparency, stakeholder consultation and social dialogue in the development of the rules, and highlights the essential role of impact assessments, but also of ex post studies and evaluation of legislation. finally, the report states that stricter standards, adopted by member states in application of directives, should not be regarded as excessive regulation. however, they must not detract from the image of the european union's legislative action and must therefore remain proportionate.
in writing. ‒ democracy also means easy access to regulations. that is why the european commission has launched a programme called 'refit' to simplify and clarify european regulations and make them more readable for citizens. the kaufmann report takes up and improves the european commission's simplification programme. the right wing, under the guise of simplification, has found a way to circumvent the european union's standards of protection, for example by voting to abolish the "nutritional profiles" which are used to inform consumers of the characteristics of a food. legislation must be understood by all, but it must also increase the protection of europeans by guaranteeing high social, health, safety and environmental standards. for european socialists, simplification must maintain the same high level of standards and protections, which is why we will continue to fight for simple, demanding regulations that bring progress for citizens. so, while i was opposed to the abolition of the concept of nutritional profile, i voted in favour of this report, which is going in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is intended to strengthen the single internal market. the text aims to strengthen the governance of the single market and the powers of the european commission. to achieve this, it advocates an aggressive implementation of market integration tools such as eures, the european public services and employment network, which aims to promote the mobility of workers within the union. i cannot support this initiative which is designed to give the european commission additional powers at the expense of the sovereignty of our nations. the european union wants to reduce the competitiveness gaps and the macroeconomic differences that result from the single market by encouraging budgetary transfers and the geographical mobility of employees, which we formally oppose. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i reject: strengthening the commission's powers; stepping up the member states (which are referred to in the text as 'partners'); strengthening the governance of the single market; aggressive implementation of market integration tools (e.g. eures); putting the single market at the pinnacle, as the only solution to the european union's problems. the europe of the nations is the only credible alternative for resolving the imbalances, and i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the single market was set up to facilitate trade between businesses and consumers within the union and to reduce costs. i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to make the single market work more efficiently by setting simple standards which are conducive to economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i cannot accept this report on the strengthening and 'perfecting' of the internal market, because of all that such a project implies in terms of the sovereignty of the member states and democracy within the union: in fact, this report leads to the strengthening of the powers of the commission whose members, it should be recalled, are appointed and not elected and advocates the use of the 'single market' as a miracle solution to the problems of the union as well as the aggressive implementation of integration tools in the single market (such as eures) in disregard of the particular policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ as a firm opponent of the principle of the single market, i could only vote against this report on strengthening it. i welcome, however, the criticisms in this report of the inefficiency of this single market, in particular the lack of transparency on the part of the council, the disregard for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality enshrined in the treaties, and the inadequacy of the impact assessments provided, 40% of which were rejected by the impact assessment committee. finally, the most serious criticism, in my view, is the reality of the overly heavy regulations which this single market imposes on our smes. despite these observations of common sense, i remain firmly opposed to the commission's increasing prerogatives in this area, and the commission does not hesitate to impose market integration in an almost dictatorial manner through a tool such as eures. this single market is being built in a real disregard for the member states, which are supposed to be sovereign and are regarded as mere 'partners', that is to say as provincial species to be tamed by the commission, which sees only more european union as the solution to all the problems caused by the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the internal single market. the rapporteur has indicated in the text that he is willing to strengthen the governance of the single market and the powers of the european commission. to achieve this, it advocates an aggressive implementation of market integration tools such as eures, the european public services and employment network, which aims to promote the mobility of workers within the union. we strongly criticise this initiative which is designed to give the european commission additional powers to the detriment of the sovereignty of our nations. the european union wants to reduce the competitiveness gaps and the macroeconomic differences that result from the single market by encouraging budgetary transfers and the geographical mobility of employees, which we formally oppose. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report makes recommendations to improve the regulation of the internal market in order to make it more effective. the report stresses the importance of transposition and implementation of the regulation, and the importance of the single market promoting growth by supporting production, innovation and trade. the aim is therefore to make the regulation of the single market and its political cycle less complex and less effective. i have supported this report because i believe that clear and effective regulation is a positive signal for the development of european businesses and investment.
in writing. this own-initiative report aims to improve the single market regulation to make it less complex and more efficient and thus avoid an even longer legislative procedure. as this is in the interests of smes and consumers and takes into account existing single market tools such as the consultation process, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ intra-european trade accounts for two thirds of the european union's trade. the functioning of the system should therefore be facilitated by alleviating the various administrative constraints. the measures advocated in this legislative text should therefore reduce the burden of bureaucracy and simplify administrative procedures. this is an important step which could contribute to the growth of the union.
in writing. ‒ this report acknowledges the council's lack of transparency, the lack of respect for subsidiarity and proportionality, the lack of consultation of civil society, the lack of impact assessments and excessive regulations for smes. the report's objectives are to strengthen and improve the single internal market, which i am opposed to. i am also opposed to increasing the powers of the commission at the expense of the states, strengthening the governance of the single market, aggressively implementing market integration tools (e.g. eures) and defending the single market as the only solution to the problems of the european union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: strengthening and improving the single internal market are the objectives of the report, which is enough to position our vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was necessary to optimise the regulation of the internal market in order to increase its effectiveness. an efficient single market is a market that is likely to foster growth, benefiting smes and european consumers. however, it is essential that these measures to bring about improvements in legislation are accompanied, in parallel, by measures to correctly transpose and implement the single market standards.
in writing. ‒ our project is diametrically opposed to theirs. we reject the strengthening of the commission's powers, the alignment of the member states (which are referred to in the text as 'partners'), the strengthening of the governance of the single market, the aggressive implementation of market integration tools (e.g. eures), the promotion of the single market as the only solution to the problems of the european union. the europe of nations is the only credible alternative to resolving the regrettable imbalances. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anneleen van bossuyt on improved regulation of the single market. the report examines several possibilities for changes to the internal market rules to bring more benefits to smes and consumers. the report argues that good legislation requires effective work across the policy cycle, and in particular stresses the importance of transposition and implementation of the regulation. i support this legislative proposal based on the evidence that a single market which supports production, innovation and trade also promotes growth. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to improve the means of regulating the single market. the single market is an essential tool for boosting growth and jobs: improving the regulation of the single market should be both a priority and a shared responsibility of the union institutions. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to take part in the votes on the report 'towards better regulation of the single market' as i was called to take part in the conference of presidents which took place during the votes. however, i take this opportunity to express my opposition to this report. i reject the strengthening of the commission's powers advocated in this text, the bringing into step of the member states considered in the text as 'partners', the strengthening of the governance of the single market, the aggressive implementation of market integration tools and the bringing to the pinnacle of the single market, presented as the only solution to the problems of the european union. the europe of nations is the only credible alternative to resolving the regrettable imbalances.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to strengthen the single market, which i am opposed to. he also wants to strengthen the commission's powers, even though he acknowledges that it often acts with a certain arrogance.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the two guidelines which structure it are the strengthening and improvement of the internal market. for once, however, the rapporteur has the courage to make a hard statement about the effectiveness of the single market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. on the other hand, i cannot subscribe to the general plan that has been put into effect, which includes strengthening the powers of the commission, putting the member states on a par with the rest, strengthening the governance of the single market, aggressively implementing the market integration tools... i continue to defend the europe of nations as the only credible alternative.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this report acknowledges the many institutional dysfunctions of the european union: non-application of the principle of subsidiarity, lack of consultation of civil society, etc. however, this proposal is unacceptable in that it advocates a strengthening of the powers of the european commission and the strengthening of the single market, the effects of which have been demonstrated.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve the european single market through proposals on transparency, the role of national parliaments and the european parliament. while some of these proposals may seem positive, they are nevertheless aimed at strengthening the single market and removing any regulation arguing that 'a single market that does not overburden or impede production, innovation or trade is a tool that will bring back to europe jobs and growth that would have previously been generated elsewhere'. this catechism has already proven its danger. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the report is to improve and strengthen the internal market. some of the findings are interesting, such as the lack of subsidiarity, the lack of consultation of civil society and the regulations that are too burdensome for smes. this report promotes european integration with a particularly derisory vocabulary towards the states considered as 'partners' , and it intends to strengthen the commission at the same time; i'm opposed to. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the strengthening and improvement of the single internal market are the objectives of the report, which is enough to place our vote against the text. however, some relatively harsh findings on the effectiveness of the single market are relevant, in particular the lack of transparency in the council, the lack of respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the lack of consultation of civil society, the lack of impact assessments provided, and the excessive and too burdensome regulations for smes. on the other hand, we reject the proposals to strengthen the commission's powers and the governance of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on improving legislation for the internal market, which is a major priority shared by all the european institutions. in the current economic context, this improvement is necessary to provide european businesses with a regulatory environment that will enhance their competitiveness and recruitment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the van bossuyt report entitled 'towards better regulation of the single market'. this own-initiative report aims to examine ways of improving internal market regulation in order to make it more effective. it analyses how to make the whole policy cycle more efficient in the interests of smes and consumers, taking into account the existing tools of the single market (impact analysis, consultation process, implementation, monitoring and problem solving, enforcement of legislation, ex post evaluation and review). the report recalls that improving the regulation of the internal market is a shared responsibility of the eu institutions. it also states that good legislation requires effective and efficient work throughout the policy cycle, and in particular stresses the importance of transposition and implementation of the regulation (which are an integral part of the means to enjoy the benefits of the single market). it also stresses that a single market that supports production, innovation and trade promotes growth.
in writing. ‒ improving the regulation of the european single market is essential to allow business development and enhanced trade. this improvement can only be undertaken if all the european institutions concerned are committed to the reform of the regulation. this text, which i voted for, examines the various possibilities for improvement available to the european parliament and the other institutions. it is therefore part of our commitment to simplify the regulation of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the report deplores: - the council's lack of transparency; - the lack of respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality; - the lack of consultation of civil society; - the poor quality of the impact analyses provided (rejected by 40% of the impact analysis monitoring committee); - the excessive and overwhelming regulations for smes. i agree with the criticisms, but i am totally opposed to the solutions proposed. the report also calls for the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. i am naturally voting against this report, which is neither the first nor the last to acknowledge the damage caused by the european union without thinking for a moment of calling into question the main source of the problems.
in writing. ‒ the european single market is a major tool which, in order to foster growth and job creation, needs improved and simplified regulation. that is why i voted in favour of the report which sets out the means by which these objectives can be achieved. we therefore call for the quality of impact assessments or the consultation process with economic and civil society actors to be improved. finally, it is clear from the text that improving the regulation of the single market does not mean eliminating or reducing the ambition of certain rules, particularly in the field of consumer protection. simplification and efficiency must be the guiding principles of all public action, serving the actors that make the single market work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims at better regulation of the single market. we need to question the whole process of public policy making, i.e. before with impact assessments or consultation processes , but also during with implementation, enforcement and market surveillance and after with ex post evaluation and review of legislation. this process will have positive effects, both in terms of economic growth and employment, but also in terms of consumer protection, because improving the regulation of the single market does not mean in any way to regulate less or to lower the level of regulatory requirements, quite the contrary.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which aims to examine ways of improving the regulation of the internal market in order to make it more effective. the aim is to make procedures simpler for smes and consumers, while taking into account existing single market tools such as impact assessments, consultation processes, monitoring and problem solving, and ex post evaluation. the text stresses in particular that in order to improve regulation, the focus should be on the transposition and implementation of the regulation. improvements to the regulation of the single market must be pursued and we must continue to support production, innovation and trade to foster growth.
in writing. ‒ strengthening and perfecting the internal single market are the two pillars of the report. it presents a sometimes harsh and realistic assessment of the functioning of the single market, but in the solutions it proposes it follows the dominant line of the ideology of the european single market, to which i am firmly opposed. the europe of nations is the only credible alternative for resolving the unfortunate imbalances which have been listed. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on learning about the european union in school. the report assumes that the rise in euroscepticism in the member states is due to a lack of awareness of the european construction. the rapporteur therefore proposes that the european dimension be emphasised in school curricula in order to combat this phenomenon. i have of course opposed this scandalous text. on the one hand, the proposals made by the rapporteur infringe the prerogatives of the member states in the field of education. on the other hand, this report is a veritable propaganda tool which goes against the fundamental principles of our society.
in writing. ‒ this report is unacceptable: its main aim is to spread european propaganda and multiculturalism in schools. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the rise of euroscepticism and even europhobia, it is urgent to destroy the technocratic and incomprehensible image of the european union. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. i believe it is essential to make young people aware of european citizenship and to teach them about the functioning of the institutions. i also do not forget that european citizenship is forged through european mobility.
in writing. ‒ this project is a real weapon of mass propaganda, considering the european union as a real dogma, which is to be inculcated from an early age in defiance of the competences of the states, education being an exclusive competence of these according to article 6 of the feu treaty. the report, which assumes that the rise in eurosceptic views is mainly due to a lack of information among citizens about the functioning of the union, in reality calls for education to be placed under the union's competence, an unacceptable attack on the sovereignty of states, behind the desire to harmonise school curricula and increase european mobility. for this reason, coupled with the union's lack of democratic legitimacy and the call for greater participation of pupils and parents in school governance in defiance of the authority of teachers, i could not but oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ "it is not enough to sit on a chair and shout 'europe, europe, europe' to solve all the economic problems of our continent", said general de gaulle some 40 years ago. what a premonition when we see how desperately some of our colleagues want to convince our fellow citizens and schoolchildren of the benefits of a 'whole of europe'. because to vote for a report which aims to 'teach europe in school' is really desperate. in my country, in the netherlands, in italy, in flanders, in poland and hungary, throughout the union, europeans are telling their leaders that they want a different policy. they are not against europe. they want a different europe. but this europe does not listen to them. and now we think we have found the sesame that will save the bureaucratic europe that we have built and continue to build against the will of the people by indoctrinating students from an early age. george orwell didn't invent anything. he was a genius. the newspeak so well written in his novel 1984 is more current than ever.
in writing. as a member of the committee on culture, i fought fiercely against this report, which is a real insult to respect for the pluralism of ideas and freedom of expression. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. this medicine, which is in fact a vast marketing campaign for our children, you want to inject at the expense of the sovereignty of the states which officially retain exclusive competence in matters of education. but european nations will be called upon to harmonize their school curricula and to fund measures that promote multiculturalism, an objective that to you seems to take priority over learning basic skills such as reading, writing, or mathematics. in order to combat this weapon of mass propaganda, i tabled, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, an alternative motion for a resolution which seeks to restore the sovereignty of the member states, which in theory still have this competence, and to refocus priorities in the field of education and training.
in writing. ‒ the report assumes that the rise in eurosceptic views in most member states is due to a lack of information among citizens about the construction of europe. the rapporteur proposes that the european dimension be emphasised in school curricula to combat this phenomenon. it also called for the free movement of persons to be promoted and for mobility programmes to be strengthened in order to create a sense of belonging to the european union. finally, the promotion of multiculturalism is included in this report. i have of course opposed this scandalous text. on the one hand, the proposals put forward by the rapporteur violate the prerogatives of the member states in the field of education. on the other hand, this report is a veritable mass propaganda work in favour of the european soviet union which goes against the fundamental principles of our society and which reminds us of certain methods used by totalitarian regimes. i voted against this unacceptable text.
in writing. ‒ learning about the european union in school is of considerable importance in the current context. the rise in euroscepticism can be partly explained by the lack of understanding of the european institutions among citizens. for this reason, the european union must be an integral part of our children's education so that they understand from an early age the value of the european project. the gap between the european institutions and the citizens must be closed at all costs. it is also important that we make the necessary information available to our young people about the different mobility programmes in europe, such as erasmus+. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ many european citizens do not feel concerned by the european construction project. this distance is due to a lack of knowledge about the european union. this initiative report is based on this observation and focuses on the european dimension in education, and aims to encourage the sharing of good practice between national and european networks that participate and contribute to learning about the european union at different levels. i supported this report because i believe that education plays a key role in the sharing of knowledge and the development of a sense of belonging to the european union.
in writing. this report, which has no binding legal force, aims to develop the european dimension in education. it is important that young people have a better knowledge of the european union so that they can develop language skills, cultural sensitivity and a sense of belonging as european citizens. the various programmes put in place play a vital role in learning about the european union. i naturally supported this report.
in writing. ‒ for several years now, europeans have been experiencing a serious crisis of confidence in the european construction. the answers to be given are at least twofold: europe must prove its effectiveness in responding to the major challenges it faces, and at the same time democracy must be imposed in its functioning so that citizens can finally find their way to it. this report addresses part of the issue and proposes concrete actions to bring about a 'european identity'. it is a reminder that the school plays a fundamental role. it was proposed that the various education systems in the member states should integrate a european approach into the curricula, particularly for the history of the continent.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is important in that it provides support and assistance to associations and organisations involved in the defence and promotion of the european union. the text, which acknowledges that insufficient knowledge of the union and a poor understanding of its concrete added value can contribute to the perception of a democratic deficit and give rise to a spread of euroscepticism in the member states and the candidate countries, is a welcome reminder of all the tools and mechanisms that already exist and those that remain to be invented to make the school the ally and the vehicle of a shared european culture. it called on the commission to propose a common framework and to draw up guidelines with concrete examples which would be made available to the member states. they are encouraged to do even more, while respecting their competence in the field of education and training. i fully share the content of this resolution which makes school and learning the essential starting point for the process of building european citizenship and the institutions of the union.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to increase young people's interest in the european union, in particular by emphasising european citizenship and denouncing euroscepticism and populism. this is of course to forget that citizenship is intrinsically linked to nationality and therefore to the nations. in order to promote eurofederalism in school curricula, the text seems to ignore the prerogatives of the member states in the field of education. however, the latter is a matter for the member states, in accordance with article 6 of the feu treaty. for this reason, and because the exploitation of education for ideological purposes is intolerable, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this is a real work of massive propaganda.
in writing. europe unknown and discarded at the time of the european elections: this is the result of the proportion of european affairs in education. on the basis of this analysis and taking into account the clear added value of increased awareness of the benefits of european policies such as the free movement of persons and services within the union and mobility programmes, i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague mr draghici. i am convinced that the fact that the european democratic deficit is widening today is partly due to a lack of awareness of what europe does for our citizens on a daily basis. i also believe that the eu should be more visible and better integrated into the teaching materials and extracurricular activities organised in the member states. through a better knowledge of european institutions and history, it is also a question of contributing to the development of critical thinking about the eu and of making our young people citizens engaged in the life of their city and in intercultural dialogue. the report also recognises the role of the social partners and civil society in this educational work, which also deserves support at all levels.
in writing. ‒ this report by the socialist mp damian drăghici is a real work of massive propaganda. it is therefore a matter of once again trying to override the prerogatives of the member states in the field of education (which is still an exclusive competence of the states, according to article 6 of the tfeu) in order to make our beloved blondes into good little soldiers in the service of euro-federalism. i voted against this text, which is logical.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague damian drăghici on learning about the european union in school. the report aims to strengthen the european dimension in education and thus promote the values of the union and its member states. while emphasising the cultural diversity of the member states on which the eu is built, this teaching will also help to affirm the role of the member states in the development and influence of the union. i support this and call on the commission to develop a common framework and to draw up guidelines to strengthen the european dimension in education. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ 44% of europeans do not understand how the eu works. it is very important that young europeans learn to become familiar with the values of the eu. this report proposes to create a common framework for the member states for a european dimension in education. it is therefore part of an effort to open up the eu and its institutions to combat euroscepticism. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to take part in the voting on the report 'learning about the european union at school' because i was called to participate in the conference of presidents, which took place during the voting. however, i take this opportunity to express my opposition to this report. this report by the socialist member of parliament, damian drăghici, is a real work of massive propaganda. this is yet another attempt to override the prerogatives of the member states in the field of education (which is still the exclusive competence of the states under article 6 of the tfeu) in order to make our beloved blondes into good little soldiers for the sake of euro-federalism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to strengthen eu propaganda in schools. this work of indoctrinating our children was unfortunately adopted by 482 votes to 146, despite the efforts of the fn member of parliament dominique bilde, who had tabled a very fine counter-proposal, in which it was recalled that the priority of schools should be the acquisition of basic knowledge (reading, writing), as well as the revalorisation of national history and culture.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote is the very demonstration of european propaganda and its interference in all national areas, especially education. under the guise of combating major threats such as euroscepticism, xenophobia and populism, the report promotes new absurd measures. this would include strengthening european citizenship by further harmonising school curricula in the european union, strengthening teacher training, increasing pupils' and parents' participation in school governance, etc. a whole range of proposals that infringe the sovereignty of each member state, whose education is a competence recognised in article 6 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this is a further interference by the european union in the member states' own competences, in this case in the field of education. the report argues that the rise in euroscepticism is the result of a lack of information among 'european citizens' about the benefits of the european union. national education systems should be mobilised to develop, from the very first grades, curricula on the functioning of the european union and its 'values', in particular 'multiculturalism and non-discrimination'. more seriously, the report advocates the eventual harmonization of the primary and secondary education systems, based in particular on the principle of increased participation by the parents of pupils and by the pupils themselves. this is not a good thing, especially at a time when teachers are facing exceptional difficulties in carrying out their duties.
in writing. ‒ the history of the construction of europe and the functioning of its institutions are necessarily an integral part of the history of the states which make up it. however, the objective here is clear: to teach the eu to develop a "sense of european citizenship and a pro-european attitude" in the face of the risk of "spreading euroscepticism". the report takes the view that the eu's 'crisis of democratic legitimacy' is actually due to 'insufficient knowledge' among citizens, not to its anti-democratic functioning. so a history lesson on the 2005 referendum on the european constitutional treaty will have to explain to children how their parents were wrong to oppose it? or should we ignore this historical event? the parliament also stresses the need for education for all and training for teachers and calls on the member states to increase investment in quality education, but even then it is the usual blabbermouth that wants to strengthen partnerships with the private sector. i vote against such a biased teaching of the european union.
in writing. ‒ despite growing euroscepticism in the member states, the europeanist hysteria continues in the european parliament. this phenomenon is therefore understood to be due to a lack of communication with the citizens. the report therefore calls for a stronger sense of european identity and the ideal of integration among the younger generations. education tends to become an exclusive prerogative of the eu in this report. it is intended to promote multiculturalism, non-discrimination and a europe of 'mobility'. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report by the socialist mp damian drăghici is a real work of massive propaganda. this is an attempt to override the prerogatives of the member states in the field of education (which is still an exclusive competence of the states under article 6 tfeu) in order to indoctrinate young people. the assumption is that the rise of eurosceptic opinions, a real danger for the eu, is due to a lack of information among citizens about the construction of europe and its supposed benefits. it is obvious that it is not a matter of education and objective information, but of political aims which have nothing to do with schools. the vote is therefore clearly against.
in writing. this report, a massive propaganda work, proposes a methodical and general learning of the supposed benefits of the eu from an early age, in school, to enable the eu to stop euroscepticism and populism. the text proposes to override the exclusive competence of the states in the field of education (article 6 tfeu) in order to increase the effectiveness of teaching the european doctrine by harmonising school curricula, particularly in this highly political area. i therefore voted against this socialist and propaganda resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to encourage learning about the functioning of the european union in schools. i particularly support the provisions which emphasise the cultural diversity of the member states on which the european union is built, and which show that the european union must be a europe of nations, with different but complementary identities, which must be made known. in this context, i am pleased to see in this report a desire to strengthen and extend the erasmus+ programmes, europe for citizens, creative europe and the european voluntary service, which help to acquire language skills and promote the cultures of each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the drăghici report on 'learning about the european union in school'. this own-initiative report aims to strengthen the european dimension in education. education is fundamental to the dissemination of values and knowledge among citizens. lack of knowledge about european integration can contribute to the perception of a democratic deficit and the spread of euroscepticism. the rapporteur therefore hopes that the eu will encourage the launch of new local, national and european initiatives to bring the eu closer to its citizens and to improve understanding of the integration process. however, the report respects the subsidiarity of the european union's powers in the field of education. the report also stresses the cultural diversity of the member states on which the eu is built. the role of the member states in the development and influence of the union must be an important part of eu education in schools.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the rise of absurd and dangerous anti-european discourse, devoid of any sense of reality and ignoring the many advantages that the european union brings us, we have a responsibility to train our young people, to pass on our values to them. the position of parliament, which i share, is to promote the european union in schools. we also call on the european commission to communicate more widely about the education programmes 'erasmus plus' and 'europe for citizens' and to promote the mobility of education professionals. only in this way will we be able to strengthen the process of european integration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to promote learning about the european union, its values and how it works in schools. the report also supports european training actions such as erasmus and promotes exchanges of good practice between member states on learning from europe. the history of europe, its values, is an integral part of the history of today's european citizens and learning from it is important for the development of everyone's critical sense.
in writing. ‒ this report is an interesting example of europeanism: it attacks a competence that is not at all the responsibility of the european union, education, in order to turn the school into a real centre of europeanist propaganda. it therefore doubly undermines democracy, firstly by not respecting the sovereignty of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity, and secondly by considering that citizens must be ideologically formed from childhood. school should be a place of knowledge where students acquire knowledge and not a workshop distorting the process of building a political consciousness. such a use of education is commonly found only in the worst dictatorial regimes known to mankind. i am naturally voting against this liberty-killing text.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support this report which aims to strengthen the european dimension in education. the european union is too often criticized, but in reality it is not recognized. to remedy this, i wanted to encourage new local, regional, national and european initiatives, aimed at bringing the eu closer to its citizens by improving understanding of the integration process. however, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity in the field of education, it would be good for the member states to develop these new initiatives to promote european values and to provide information on its history and operation.
in writing. ‒ while many of today's challenges call for a collective response, citizens' distrust and disengagement from the european union has never been greater. it therefore needs to be better understood and its civic and political link with europeans needs to be strengthened. this 'education on citizenship' and the involvement of citizens in european decision-making and democratic processes are all the more fundamental for young people, the voters of tomorrow. the european identity is also based on a foundation of common values, such as tolerance, justice and solidarity, which we must pass on to future generations. with this in mind, the own-initiative report calls on the member states to better integrate the european dimension into teaching and school curricula, to enable children and students to understand the history, functioning and added value of the european union and its institutions, while providing them with the tools for critical reflection. in this respect, the active participation of all citizens in the european debate is the aim. for that reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ why 'learn about the european union in school'? some figures are sufficient to demonstrate the need to improve the visibility and understanding of the european union among citizens through education. 44% of citizens feel that they have only a limited understanding of how the union works; 52% of europeans feel that their voice does not count in the union. what's the outcome? less than half of citizens and about 28% of young people voted in the last european elections. the citizens must be able to take back control of the european project. efforts must therefore be made to improve the learning of the union, based on concrete examples. in addition, it seems essential to increase financial support for programmes such as 'erasmus +', 'europe for citizens' and 'creative europe' while increasing access to mobility through these programmes. member states also have a responsibility both in terms of information on available european programmes and in terms of reviewing and updating their education systems. we must learn to live the european dream again. learning about the european union at school can help.
in writing. ‒ today the european union suffers from a lack of awareness among citizens which fuels criticism of the democratic deficit. according to a 2014 eurobarometer survey, 44% of eu citizens felt they had only a limited understanding of how the union works and 52% of europeans felt that their voice does not count in the eu. mr drăghici's report calls on the member states to strengthen the european dimension in education. it emphasises the importance of understanding the construction of europe from a historical point of view but also from a practical point of view, the aim being to promote the understanding of the functioning of the latter and to develop the civic skills of the pupils. although the union has a subsidiary role in education, the report stresses the importance of european programmes and cooperation platforms to advance education about europe. it also encourages member states to strengthen the european dimension in their educational programmes. finally, it takes into account the training of teachers in european issues. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which emphasises school learning in the european union and its functioning. a recent survey found that 44% of europeans do not understand how the european union works. it is therefore urgent to strengthen the dialogue on the union in schools, associations and public spaces in order to restore citizens' confidence and to promote the process of european integration. at the same time, we must also disseminate more information on these subjects. as such, the 'erasmus+', 'europe for citizens' and 'creative europe' programmes have a central role to play in promoting education and training, language skills, active citizenship and intercultural understanding. finally, it is important that member states invest more in quality education that can arouse the curiosity of schoolchildren or students and generate a real interest in the european union and its functioning.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to redefine the role of the eu in the education systems of the member states and to strengthen european integration. we have here a new intrusive approach from the european union advocating integration at the expense of the fundamentals of education which are learning to write, to read and to learn our national history. without these solid foundations, we are nothing. that is why i supported the alternative resolution by my colleague, mr dominique bilde, and voted against a text which is dangerous for the future of our children.
in writing. ‒ to combat youth unemployment, the report recommends promoting student mobility in vocational education and training through existing programmes such as erasmus. the strengthening of these programmes would also be achieved by increasing individual grants and by better coordination with the european social fund. although we reject the idea that mobility is the solution to the mass unemployment affecting young europeans, we consider the erasmus programme to be one of the european union's few success stories (provided it does not encourage brain drain). the rapporteur also stresses the importance of apprenticeships in the integration of young people into the labour market and stresses the need to rely on the chambers of commerce and crafts, which we fully support. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ despite the shortcomings of this report, i voted in favour of it, as it gives a new value to apprenticeships, vocational training and the role of smes in this area.
in writing. ‒ the erasmus+ programme is one of the european union's most successful programmes. it enables young people to acquire new skills, especially linguistic ones, and to become aware of european citizenship. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution. i am also strongly committed to european mobility by setting up a pilot project to enable apprentices to study for a year in a european country other than their own. the aim of this project is to offer the same mobility opportunities to apprentices as to university students and to enhance their employability through apprenticeship training and the acquisition of new skills abroad.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the establishment of a european status for apprentices, the recognition of school curricula between countries, greater involvement of enterprises in the design of measures relating to apprenticeship and an increase in the appropriations allocated to the erasmus programme. although the report aims in particular to promote, through the erasmus programme, the construction of an illusory european identity concealing the desire to encroach on the prerogatives of the member states, and calls for a favourable treatment of certain minorities (migrants, lgbti, etc.), i did not vote against this text which aims to enhance vocational training and apprenticeship, emphasising the role of smes as a means of solving youth unemployment, and recognises that erasmus has been one of the eu's 'too few' successes.
in writing. ‒ education is a fundamental human right and a public good which must be accessible to all. that said, if there is one area where european cooperation works, it is in higher education, apprenticeship and youth training, particularly through the erasmus programme. since its inception in 1987, there have been many programmes which have enabled millions of young europeans to move and pursue higher education abroad. these programmes have undoubtedly contributed to european integration, facilitated the personal and critical development of students and improved the learning of new languages, thus helping to prepare them for the world of work. today there seems to be a need to encourage mobility in vocational training. this is what is being proposed in particular in the framework of the erasmus+ programme and i fully support this initiative of the commission. youth unemployment is a real challenge and its solution is a societal challenge. let us encourage young people to find work placements and to study abroad, and they will come back richer with a european culture which we must preserve and export.
in writing. ‒ this report on erasmus+ is quite satisfactory, and i am pleased that my colleagues have incorporated in it the realistic proposals i had tried to put to the committee, including the need to rely on the chambers of trades and crafts to promote vocational training. other good elements are included, such as the essential involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction of learning paths; the commission has also proposed the recognition of school curricula between countries, in particular through the system of 'credits'. i will, however, have some reservations. first of all, i am not sure that increasing mobility alone will solve the problem of unemployment, especially youth unemployment. i believe that a number of sensible measures must be taken beforehand: ensuring that education is adapted to the needs of the labour market, in particular by refocusing guidance counselling; acquiring basic knowledge: i would remind you that, according to the latest joint report by the council and the commission on the follow-up of the et2020 strategic framework, 22% of 15-year-olds in the eu have a mathematical deficit and 18% have a serious deficit in reading.
in writing. ‒ to combat youth unemployment, the report recommends promoting student mobility in vocational education and training through existing programmes such as erasmus, whose budget has been increased by 40% by the commission. the strengthening of these programmes also requires an increase in individual grants and better coordination with the european social fund. although we reject the idea that mobility is the solution to the mass unemployment affecting our young people, we consider the erasmus programme to be one of the european union's few successes, provided it does not encourage brain drain. the rapporteur also stresses the importance of apprenticeships in the integration of young people into the labour market and stresses the need to rely on the chambers of trades and crafts, which we fully support. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european erasmus+ programme is a major step forward for student mobility. however, it is clear that much progress still needs to be made before the programme's objectives can be fully achieved. we need such a programme to motivate european students to move to other member states and thus to promote cultural exchanges. to this end, we must, among other things, ensure the compatibility of the different education systems, strengthen the recognition of learning outcomes and provide support for training centres. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with the methods of supporting and promoting the mobility of european students under erasmus+. the resolution aims to promote the mobility of european students in the context of vocational training by providing new opportunities for youth mobility and by allowing the validation and recognition of learning outcomes abroad. i supported this report because i believe that vocational training is essential in europe, offering many opportunities on the labour market, and that mobility should be available to all students and young people in training.
in writing. erasmus+ is a great opportunity for young people in higher education to develop language skills and to study in another country. i supported this text which particularly encourages the creation of a programme to enable young people to move within the field of vocational training, such as the former leonardo da vinci programme.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, the youth unemployment rate stands at 22.1%, more than twice the general unemployment rate. in this context, vocational training and apprenticeship, which enable the unemployed and young people who have dropped out of school to be better integrated into the labour market, must be improved. the enhanced mobility under erasmus+, the better visibility of vocational education and training programmes to smes, the unemployed and apprentices, and the reduction of administrative burdens are useful and necessary steps in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the erasmus+ report. it is a programme to promote employment in europe by supporting education, training, youth and sport. four million europeans will benefit from it to acquire new skills and work experience. i wanted to support the mobility and professional integration of young people by voting in favour of this programme, which is part of the 'education and training strategic framework 2020' which aims at a 6% mobility of graduates. i thought it important to stress the importance of european cooperation in the field of education and training for young people, in order to promote economic growth in europe, social equality and the integration of young people.
in writing. ‒ despite the europeanist, multiculturalist and even communitarian ideology that appears in this text, i supported this report because it tends to give a new value to apprenticeship and vocational training. it stresses the role of smes and of the chambers of trades and crafts in the development of related policies. the erasmus programme and intergovernmental cooperation, which allows students to train abroad, are moving in the right direction, as is the recognition of courses between states. however, mobility must not encourage the flight of brains and the uprooting of workers.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this report shows the need to give a new impetus to apprenticeship and vocational training.
in writing. ‒ the erasmus+ programme, which we are celebrating its first anniversary this year, is one of the european union's great successes. it enables millions of young people to move, whether as students, trainees or on a professional mobility basis. above all, it significantly promotes the employability and professional mobility of people who have had this experience. the increase in the resources of this programme, the completion of the process of recognition of professional qualifications and experience are all reasons why i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. erasmus+ is without doubt one of the greatest successes of the european union. since 1987, 3 million students have been able to continue their studies at a university in another member state. this is a programme which i particularly like. it is a symbol of a europe of peoples and of mobility, which enables young people to benefit from the richness of cultural exchange and to have access to quality university and vocational training. but for young europeans to be able to face the challenges of today, erasmus needs to be continually re-imagined. that is why i voted for the erasmus+ reform proposal. today, access to the erasmus programme remains much easier for students. the resolution voted in parliament will allow better use of erasmus+ funding to increase the mobility of young apprentices and students in vocational training. this project is necessary because youth unemployment must be at the centre of our concerns. this initiative will improve their integration into the labour market by providing them with better training through linguistic, cultural and personal enrichment.
in writing. ‒ this report, by the greens' mep maragall, is about improving the erasmus+ programme. it builds on the commission's 2014-2020 programme which aims to 'strengthen skills and employability and modernise education, training and youth work'. the commission has already planned a budget of €14.7 billion for this programme, a 40% increase on current spending levels. we recognise that erasmus has been one of the eu's few successes and we are in favour of intergovernmental cooperation allowing students to train abroad, provided that this does not replace the acquisition of basic knowledge and that such an initiative does not become the springboard for brain drain and the uprooting of workers. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ernest maragall on the erasmus+ programme and other tools to promote mobility in the context of vocational education and training. the aim of this report is to maximise the compatibility of the different vocational education and training systems by developing mobility programmes that are accessible and open to eu citizens, in order to establish a network of workshops and incubators within the eu. i encourage the development of such a programme in the context of vocational education and training. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve mobility in vocational training and education in europe. to this end, the report proposes to improve the mobility opportunities for young people, move towards the validation and recognition of learning outcomes, skills and competences across the union and enable the establishment of accessible and open mobility programmes. mobility during studies and in the context of an employment contract improves employability. in the current context of massive youth unemployment in europe, it is important to support such initiatives. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it extends the erasmus programme for assistance to people living abroad, which has shown its interest in students, apprenticeships and vocational training.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the improvement of the erasmus+ programme. this programme enables young europeans to go abroad to train, improve their skills and gain language experience. the commission has budgeted eur 14.7 billion for the implementation of this programme between 2014 and 2020, an increase of 40% compared to the current level of expenditure. in addition, the improvement concerns the upgrading of apprenticeship and vocational training, with emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises, and promotes intergovernmental cooperation. of course, there are some significant flaws in this text, including the idea that the erasmus + programme will help to solve the problem of unemployment; it promotes the rise of communitarianism and is an ode to european multiculturalism. however, as the programme is one of the european union's few successes and a real opportunity for young people, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this report. apart from the starting point, which is to establish 'international mobility' as a way of combating mass unemployment in europe, i welcome the strengthening of the erasmus programme and its openness to vocational training. erasmus+ replaces the erasmus programme, which has been a clear success. this change is not purely formal: the budget of erasmus+ has been increased by 40% compared with previous editions. erasmus+ also strengthens its vocational training component and finally gives value to apprenticeships, encouraging, in the process, traineeships and training within smes.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes ways to extend access to mobility in other mobility programmes, in the field of education and vocational training, such as apprenticeships. but we should also provide the means to welcome and prepare for mobility and provide for adequate training allowances so that we do not become a contract of precariousness. i therefore regret the report's approach, which starts from an alleged mismatch between 'labour market supply and demand' and calls for the private sector to further orientate student pathways. this is a logic widely condemned in the countries of the south, where large sections of the young are forced into exile to find work. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ erasmus + is a programme that goes beyond what erasmus provides. it is a herald of the "mobility" that erasmus was only sketching. the aim is to link education and work closely so that qualified people can be sent to the eu's lacking regions. i do not accept 'mobility' as a solution for young people's employment. however, this report emphasises the value of apprenticeships and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises. in short, despite the passages on multiculturalism and communitarianism (in favor of lgbti and migrants) i found the whole set correct. i only hope that it will not lead to a brain drain or become an instrument for the expatriation of workers. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite its shortcomings, it is possible to vote in favour of the report. the report also calls for the development of a european vocational training policy, which is based on the principle of equal opportunities, and for the development of a european vocational training policy, which is based on the principle of equal opportunities. we also recognise that erasmus has been one of the eu's few successes and we are in favour of intergovernmental cooperation allowing students to train abroad, provided that this does not replace the acquisition of basic knowledge and that such an initiative does not become the preparation ground for brain drain and the uprooting of workers.
in writing. this report focuses on the improvement of the erasmus+ programme, an extension of the traditional erasmus programme, one of europe's few successes in traditional training and apprenticeship. despite the praise for multiculturalism and communitarianism in this text, several interesting proposals aimed at enhancing vocational learning and training, with emphasis on the role of smes and the regional and local levels, allow me to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report relates to the erasmus+ programme and other tools to promote mobility in vocational training. the possibility for a european citizen to go to another member state to learn its language, to immerse himself in its culture is an asset for him, for his training or for his conversion. the cultural and linguistic diversity of the european nations is a treasure that should be protected and valued. this report aims to promote such exchanges. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the maragall report, on which i worked hard as a fictitious rapporteur for my political group. several issues and objectives were essential for me to achieve and improve in order to promote mobility in vocational training. the first step was to strengthen coordination, complementarity and coherence between the european structural funds and in particular with the esf. secondly, partnerships with consular offices and businesses had to be strengthened. finally, i wanted mobility for all, by promoting programmes in urban, peri-urban and rural areas, by providing the best possible support to students and apprentices with low and discriminatory incomes, and finally by reducing the administrative burden on applicants, companies and national agencies in the preparation of applications. mobility during studies or in the context of an employment contract is a factor of employability that we must never neglect, at a time when unemployment rates are dramatically high in europe.
in writing. ‒ while we are working to improve student mobility, notably through programmes such as erasmus plus, the mobility gap between those in higher education and those in vocational education is a major area where we need to act. the resolution adopted by the european parliament, which i supported, is based on several pillars which will make it possible to increase the mobility of students in vocational education.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which notes the imbalance in access to european mobility between apprentices and university students and the existing barriers to employability, and proposes solutions to improve access to education and vocational training programmes for the most disadvantaged classes of european citizens. it proposes, in particular, to increase awareness of european training and mobility programmes other than erasmus, the creation of a european apprentice status to improve the conditions and availability of apprenticeships in the union and the common recognition of learning outcomes.
in writing. ‒ mr maragall's report is based on the principle that increasing the mobility of young people within the european union will help to solve the problem of unemployment. better still, mobility would have enabled citizens of the member states to feel that they belong to europe. even if this initial assumption is wrong, the text is on the whole rather balanced, for example by citing the need to rely on the chambers of trades and crafts and the necessary strengthening of the role of smes in the process of improving apprenticeship. erasmus has been one of the eu's few successes and i am in favour of intergovernmental cooperation allowing students to train abroad, provided that this does not replace the acquisition of basic knowledge and that such an initiative does not become the preparation for brain drain and the uprooting of workers. i therefore vote for this report, which is generally positive, with some reservations.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament resolution calling for better use of the erasmus+ funding programme to increase the mobility of young apprentices and students in vocational training. erasmus+ is the key action to support mobility under the erasmus programme, which was established in 1987 and enables millions of europeans to participate in academic exchanges within the eu. finally, future developments will be marked by partnerships between local and regional authorities, businesses, chambers of commerce or trade unions to plan and manage these vocational training programmes for apprentices abroad.
in writing. ‒ two figures: the youth unemployment rate in 2015 stands at 22.1% in the union and only 1% of young people currently in vocational training (including apprenticeships) are part of a mobility programme, as opposed to those in university education. in the light of this assessment, this own-initiative report draws the attention of the commission and the member states to the need for concerted action to enhance mobility in education and vocational training, in order to improve the language skills and employability of europeans. the aim is ultimately to increase competitiveness and boost employment in the union. in concrete terms, the emphasis is on greater use and simplification of erasmus+ for young people, better access to information on the different mobility programmes and increased awareness of these programmes in the union's general and vocational education institutions. the creation of a single point of contact is called for to centralise information and facilitate contacts between all those involved in mobility programmes. i fully support this text, which offers a positive perspective for vocational training, worker mobility and youth in the eu.
in writing. ‒ according to eurostat, the youth unemployment rate currently stands at 22.1% in the european union as a whole. non-formal and informal learning and vocational training have a role to play in tackling early school leaving, reducing the number of young people who are not in employment, education or training, and combating skills shortages and skills mismatches. that is why i supported the resolution on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational education and training (vet). mobility can have positive effects on employability, transnational cooperation and europe's competitiveness and must be accessible to all. this requires awareness of the erasmus+ programme and other available instruments, particularly among smes. the mobility of apprentices within the union should also be developed, and the role of intermediary institutions involved in the preparation, management and monitoring of mobility should be strengthened. finally, it is necessary to provide sufficient financial resources to support such programmes.
in writing. ‒ the erasmus+ programme has made many advances in mobility in european higher education. we must continue this work and also promote mobility in vocational training. to do this, we need to improve mobility opportunities for young people by strengthening coordination, complementarity and coherence between the structural funds and programmes at all levels. it is also about developing the validation and recognition of learning outcomes, skills and competences. finally, it is important to ensure that mobility programmes are accessible and open to all by strengthening the capacity of training centres and by establishing a european network of workshops and incubators. the promotion of mobility in vocational education and training will contribute to the objectives of developing education, language skills, reducing school drop-out rates and developing entrepreneurial skills.
in writing. ‒ the european union wants to improve the erasmus+ system and promote mobility for young professionals in the context of their education and training. during the discussions on this report, the political groups took up many of the amendments tabled by our group. thus, it provides a balanced text between ideological errors about a possible reduction in unemployment through erasmus, for example, and a desire to rely on local authorities, companies or chambers of trades and crafts to strengthen apprenticeships in europe. erasmus is a success for me, if it does not become a preparation for a brain drain. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the european union's relations with international institutions. the rapporteur criticises in particular the lack of dialogue and transparency in these international bodies. it also addresses the problem of the representation of the union and the euro area in these bodies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the rapporteur is clear about the consequences of divergent interests between member states on the consistency of decisions taken between the union and international bodies, but the solutions remain the same: federalisation of europe at the expense of the sovereignty of our nations. i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is nothing but wishful thinking in the sense of more european integration and more constraints on the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, the fruit of a long work by my colleague sylvie goulard, which analyses the role of the union in a financial system that operates supranationally. the union must urgently help to bring about more balanced multilateral cooperation in economic and financial matters. to do this, europe must become aware of its power in this area in order to promote financial stability, growth and employment.
in writing. - i opposed this report which, although it acknowledges the inconsistencies and failures of the european union - when it imposes on its member states regulations which run counter to those adopted by those same states - presents only eternal pious wishes for 'dialogue' and 'democracy' to solve them. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity.
in writing. ‒ another report that acknowledges the bitter failure of the european union and the euro but still insists on wanting more union! the report thus notes the lack of democracy and consistency in the decisions taken by international financial bodies such as the imf, the oecd, the g20, etc. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the report also calls for the strengthening of the union's external representation, in line with article 138 of the treaty on european union. in other words, the federalisation of europe is seen as the only solution to the divergent interests of the member states. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the european union's relations with international institutions. the rapporteur criticises in particular the lack of dialogue and transparency in these international bodies. it also addresses the problem of the representation of the union and the euro area in these bodies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the rapporteur is clear about the consequences of divergent interests between member states on the consistency of decisions taken between the union and international bodies, but the solutions remain the same: federalisation of europe at the expense of the sovereignty of our nations. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 crisis highlighted significant weaknesses in global economic and financial governance. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: international organisations such as the oecd, the imf and the g20 serve this purpose. in this context, the european union must be an example, given the high regulatory standards it has. to this end, the representation of the union in these institutions must be clarified so that it can best represent the interests of european citizens. i voted in favour of this report, which makes coherent proposals to improve the role of the european union in the international financial, monetary and regulatory arena.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this own-initiative report is to clarify the role of the european union in international bodies, in order to improve its representation. it aims to establish best practices at european and national level to promote transparency and integrity in the member states, and to improve the european commission's accountability to parliament. as such, the european institutions must be able to define the union's common position as quickly as possible. i have supported this report because i believe that the proper representation of the union is an essential condition for defending our interests on the international stage.
in writing. this report examines the european union's action in various international bodies and institutions in the financial, monetary and regulatory fields. i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to put in place more effective mechanisms for the european union to act as a single representative in these various international bodies and institutions. finally, it is important that there should be a strengthening of the euro area in its representation on the world stage.
in writing. ‒ under the free movement of capital, this report starts from the observation that the stability of the financial system is decided at a supranational level. the international organizations are numerous and their functioning complex: the imf, the oecd, the g20, the fsb, the basel committee, iosco, iais, iops, the iasb. the text acknowledges the lack of coherence and transparency in the decisions of these bodies and the exclusion of many countries from the relevant processes. i voted against this report because the solutions proposed are still those of an illusory 'financial dialogue', but above all of greater federalisation of the union. however, the binding legislation of the latter is neither in the interest of the states nor in the interest of financial stability.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the european union and the eurozone are not functional, so we must subject states and peoples to the power of a few more, while making citizens believe that this is a strengthening of democracy...
in writing. ‒ despite the failure of international regulation to have a significant impact on the stability of the financial sector and the deterioration of the european union, this report tries to lull us into illusions by presenting pious hopes for dialogue and democracy! it is also dismaying to see that, although the report regrets that the divergent interests of the member states prevent consistency between the decisions of the union and those of the international bodies in which they are also represented, and that the financial models of these same member states are too varied to be subject to the same regulation, the solutions proposed are still those of federalisation of the union and the introduction of more binding legislative processes. the union and the eurozone are not functional, so we must subject the states and the people to the power of a few more, while making the citizens believe that this is a strengthening of democracy.... i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sylvie goulard on the role of the union in the framework of international institutions and bodies in the financial, monetary and regulatory fields. the report stresses the need to clarify the mandate of each institution and its funding in order to better assess the legality of its decisions. i support this resolution, which will contribute to the union's efforts to make things more transparent and will make it possible to maximise consistency between its institutions and the time needed to implement decisions. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report by mrs goulard calls for a rationalisation of the representation of the union's interests in the framework of international institutions and bodies in the financial, monetary and regulatory fields. the text proposes to strengthen coordination between member states, clarify the union's representation in the g20 and call for the creation of a single european area within the imf. i voted in favour of this report because it is balanced.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is federalist, which is not surprising from sylvie goulard...
in writing. ‒ this report highlights three key points. firstly, it stresses that the stability of the financial system is decided at a supranational level (through the free movement of capital), on the responsibilities of the actors, and finally, that the european union and the euro zone must be able to defend their strategic interests. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts to assist the member states in the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment. it also points to the poor representation of the eu in these international bodies. logically, on the basis of such a finding, the report should advocate concrete and effective solutions to alleviate the situation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. it is clear, however, that neither federalisation nor the eurozone are viable solutions, and only continue to create illusions among european citizens. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the stability of the financial system, which is crucial for investment and growth, depends on the ability to develop and enforce standards and rules of conduct at international level. the necessary change of scale must not lead to a dilution of responsibilities to the detriment of democratic legitimacy. the eu and the euro area must be able to defend their strategic interests in international organisations (imf, oecd, g20, fsb, iosco, basel committee, iasb, etc.). the text calls on the eu to adopt a european code of conduct on transparency and accountability, to assess the way in which the eu is represented at the g20 (double-seat problem), and to move towards a single representation of the euro area at the imf. i am convinced that these proposals should both strengthen the eu's influence in these international organisations and streamline their practices, so i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report highlights the interplay of different international bodies in international financial regulation. this complex system sometimes results in conflicting laws. the report therefore suggests that the decision-making process should be made more transparent and that the eu should be more represented in the bodies mentioned above. under the guise of 'democratization' of financial regulation, it is an ever greater involvement of the european union that is, in reality, being proposed. the report regrets the divergent views of the member states, but these are only the expression of their respective interests and the will of the peoples who make them up.
in writing. ‒ while claiming to increase democratization and transparency in the field of international finance, this text instead calls for the eu and its member states to abandon any policy in this area. the report promotes the integration of the eu into financial regulatory bodies such as the imf as a replacement for all member states. this would allow the eu to speak with one voice and avoid "detrimental" situations in which "a representative of a member state or a national authority would, in a global organisation/organism, develop positions contrary to european legislative or regulatory decisions taken democratically and by majority vote". the text clearly proposes the introduction of 'more binding mechanisms' to achieve this. i vote against this text which denies the sovereignty of the states.
in writing. ‒ the report criticises the lack of transparency and institutional dialogue. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the current turmoil can be solved by dialogue and democracy. i don't believe that demagogy is a way of putting the problem to rest. the weakness of this report also lies in the conclusions it draws from its analysis: the models of the states are too varied and their interests too divergent to be governed by the same rules, yet the text concludes for more europe and integration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ among the proposals in this text, the main one calls for moving towards a unified representation of the eu in external bodies in the financial, monetary and regulatory fields. this would lead to the disappearance of the states. this report is an attempt to deceive us by presenting pious hopes for dialogue and democracy. it is also dismaying to see that, although the report rightly regrets that the divergent interests of the member states prevent consistency between the decisions of the eu and those of the international bodies in which they are also represented, the solutions proposed are still those of federalisation of the eu and the introduction of more binding legislative processes. we vote against.
in writing. ‒ the european union, which has created an internal market for financial services, which has recognised financial centres, but above all which has a common currency in 19 states with unprecedented rescue mechanisms, banking supervision and resolution bodies, must have a leading role in international financial institutions and bodies. the report aims to highlight and strengthen the role of the european union in this area, in particular by combating european dispersal which does not help to defend the strategic interests common to all the member states. that's why i supported him.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest market, the largest funder, the largest donor, and yet it suffers from a lack of visibility in international institutions. the lack of consistency in the representation of the union in the various institutions has a major impact on our capacity to influence. to remedy this, we call for the codification of representation to allow for greater transparency of our positions. the european commission, for its part, is working towards the single representation of the euro area within the international monetary fund. in the search for greater visibility, i have chosen to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted against this report which, under the guise of promoting democratisation and transparency, aims to perpetuate and strengthen a monetary and financial system which has shown its opacity and accountability in the global economic and financial crisis. while i am not against the idea of regulatory cooperation at global level to improve financial transparency, i refuse to hold these concepts hostage to make them unambitious texts.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that divergent interests of member states prevent consistency between eu decisions and those of international bodies where they are also represented and that the financial models of these same member states are too varied to be subject to the same regulation. against all logic, instead of proposing an ineffective and harmful dissolution of economic and monetary union, the report advocates federalisation of the eu and the introduction of more binding legislative processes. this is not what the people want, nor is it what will enable them to regain the prosperity they have lost largely through the fault of the european union. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the participation of the european union in the activities of international economic organisations in the financial, monetary and regulatory fields. the eu's place in these institutions, which regulate international finance in particular, must be increased, especially with a view to streamlining cooperation between member states. i call for greater consistency in the representation of the interests of european states in international economic institutions, even if their role must be fully recognised.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the lack of coherence in european action within international institutions and bodies, whose roles and responsibilities are not always clear to citizens, which creates a real problem for democracy. the report calls for greater coordination of the actions of the member states and the institutions of the european union in international fora, with a privileged place for the european parliament as the democratic and debating body for the elaboration of common positions, without neglecting national parliaments. it also calls for greater coherence in the policies pursued by global institutions and the establishment of comprehensive standards of democratic legitimacy, transparency, accountability and integrity. in addition, to have a greater impact on international deliberations and the world stage, the eu should do its utmost to appear as a single and coherent actor, in particular by becoming a full member of international economic and financial institutions such as the oecd or the imf, which is still not the case. as it proposes a number of solutions to make the eu a leading player on the world stage, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the role of the union in the framework of international institutions and bodies in the financial, monetary and regulatory fields. at a time of increasing interdependence of economies, it is necessary to reflect on the question of global governance within international institutions and bodies, and on the role of the union and our assembly within them. the text lists a number of proposals, such as clarifying the areas of competence, the operating and financing methods of each organisation, and improving their geographical and sectoral representation. the european council also called for the establishment of a european monetary institute, which would be a central institution for the european union, and for the establishment of a european monetary institute, which would be a central institution for the european union. i think these proposals are interesting, and that is why i have decided to support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the situation and proposes ways of strengthening the role of the european union in the framework of international institutions and bodies in the financial, monetary and regulatory fields. it is necessary to strengthen regulatory cooperation at international level, while also calling for strong involvement of parliament. the areas of competence of each body need to be better defined; the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i supported this text because it calls for greater codification and rationalization of the eu's representation in international and multilateral organisations. it called for the european union to be a full member of the international economic and financial institutions which enable it to be and encouraged the member states to speak with one voice.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to put the european union back at the centre of the decisions taken by the major global financial institutions. several idealistic solutions are presented to put dialogue and democracy back at the centre of financial decisions, such as involving the european parliament more in decision-making to avoid actions contrary to european interests. in addition to these pious wishes, there are far more dangerous federalist ideological solutions. the eu and the eurozone are not yet functional, they say; the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report is mainly about finding additional income for small-scale fishermen, but it does not really address the underlying problem, namely that quotas are mainly allocated to industrial fisheries to the detriment of small-scale fisheries. small-scale fishermen represent 80% of european fishermen but receive only about 20% of the eu's allocated quotas. industrial fishing, on the other hand, accounts for the remaining 80%. however, our amendment tabled in committee, which calls on the commission and the member states to increase the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen gradually, was adopted. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes account of the specificities of small-scale coastal fishing, which accounts for 80% of the european fleet. this economic sector is economically essential for the maintenance and development of coastal and island territories and for employment in these territories.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is a key activity for european coastlines, involving almost 80% of european fishermen and providing a high level of employment in coastal areas and the outermost regions; it is also a form of fishing which is more respectful of marine fauna and flora than industrial fishing. that is why i supported this report which, taking into account the amendments tabled by my colleague sylvie goddyn, advocates defending small-scale fishing against industrial fishing - industrial fishing receiving 80% of the union's fishing quotas when it represents only 20% of the fishermen - by providing supplementary income opportunities for small-scale fishermen in the form of subsidies for tourism, culture or environmental services, or by supporting technological innovation and scientific research programmes in fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report which is in favour of small-scale coastal fishing, which provides a high level of employment in coastal areas and a more sustainable fishery. it should be noted that industrial fishing has so far been much better off in terms of quotas, which is why i welcome the measures proposed by the rapporteur in this report, since they include: the creation of local fisheries action groups (lags), support for the development of complementary activities for fishermen, such as environmental services or tourism, or the promotion of technological innovation in terms of products, equipment, techniques, etc. the report also contains a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products.
in writing. ‒ quotas are mainly allocated to industrial fisheries at the expense of small-scale fisheries. this report does not really address this fundamental problem; its main purpose is to find additional income for small-scale fishermen. however, the amendment tabled by sylvie goddyn in committee, calling on the commission and the member states to increase progressively the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen, was adopted. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ small-scale coastal fishing must be defended against industrial fishing, both because it creates jobs in coastal areas and the outermost regions and because it is a more sustainable form of fishing. the rapporteur calls for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the quality of foodstuffs. it also stressed the importance of supporting technological innovation in equipment, in particular so that it could increase productivity. this report is a step in the right direction, the aim being to diversify the sources of income for these fishermen. the amendment tabled by sylvie goddyn, mep for the enf group, to progressively increase the quotas granted to small-scale fishermen, was also adopted. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ this report suggests ways to better take account of the specificities of small-scale artisanal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions. small-scale fishing provides jobs in coastal areas and is socially and ecologically sustainable. it represents a traditional form of fishing and a way of life and is an important source of income. areas that are dependent on small-scale fishing therefore require specific measures and support, in particular through the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). the report also stresses the specific features of small-scale fishing in the outermost regions and calls for specific measures. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents a strategy for developing the blue economy. it sets out the main challenges for the fisheries sector, namely the decline in employment, profitability and the fight against the marginalisation of the fisheries sector in developing regions. i have supported this report because i believe that the european fisheries sector needs to find new resources in order to restructure and become more efficient.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions. this report encourages the creation of new innovative enterprises in regions that depend on fisheries, which is essential for the development and growth of traditional coastal fisheries.
in writing. ‒ small-scale coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the european fleet and many jobs in coastal, island and outermost areas. this sector must therefore be protected and promoted, taking into account its regional and territorial specificities. it is therefore important that the european union should provide the small-scale coastal fishing sector with appropriate regulation and promote innovative projects to ensure the economic and sustainable development of coastal, island and outermost regions.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is practiced by 80% of european fishermen, with a high level of employment, particularly in the outermost regions. yet its fishermen receive only 20% of the eu's allocated quotas, even though it is a more sustainable form of fishing. instead of calling the system into question, the text merely sought to provide supplementary income for small-scale fishermen. however, the amendment by my colleague sylvie goddyn, calling on the commission and the member states to increase the quotas for small-scale fishermen gradually, has been adopted. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the main aim of the report is to provide supplementary income for small-scale fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the report is mainly about finding additional income for small-scale fishermen, but it does not really address the underlying problem, namely that quotas are mainly allocated to industrial fisheries to the detriment of small-scale fisheries. small-scale fishermen account for 80% of european fishermen but receive only about 20% of the union's allocated quotas. industrial fishing, on the other hand, accounts for the remaining 80%. however, the amendment tabled by my colleague sylvie goddyn in committee, which calls on the commission and the member states to increase the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen gradually, was adopted. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs ruza tomasic, on small-scale coastal fishing in fishing-dependent areas. in most coastal and island areas, coastal fishing is an important source of income. areas dependent on coastal fishing require specific measures and support to ensure their growth and development. the decline in employment and profitability in this sector, its marginalization in developing regions on the one hand, and the opportunities to take advantage of new opportunities such as 'green' development on the other, are all factors which show the importance and indicate the opportunities for reviving activities in this sector. i therefore support this proposal which states that it is essential to start a process of amending the existing regulations in order to protect coastal fisheries. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is a very important form of fishing in the territory of the eu member states. it is particularly important because it is a major source of employment and a socially and ecologically sustainable form of fishing. it is essential, in order to protect coastal fisheries, to initiate a process of modifying existing regulations and to adopt specific aid measures to ensure the development and growth of these areas. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is mainly aimed at finding additional income for small-scale fishermen. the commission is also proposing to extend the fishing opportunities for the stocks of certain species of fish to the stocks of certain species of fish.
in writing. ‒ in europe, 80% of fishing is done by small-scale fishermen. this traditional and sustainable activity contributes to the dynamism and employment of coastal areas and the outermost regions. however, it faces fierce competition from industrial fishing, which benefits from generous fishing quotas. the proposed text is a defender of small-scale fishermen. it proposes a number of measures to this end, such as preferential access to traditional coastal fishing up to 12 nautical miles (22.2 km), support for the development of complementary activities for fishermen (environmental services, tourism, etc.) or support for technological innovation (products, equipment, etc.). although the report does not touch on the substantive problem, which is the allocation of the majority of quotas to industrial fisheries, it is important for small-scale fishermen who will get additional income. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. for all these reasons, i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, even though it does not solve the imbalance between artisanal fishing, which represents 80% of european fishermen, and industrial fishing. the latter is responsible for 80% of european fishing quotas. however, these proposals would generate additional income for small-scale fishermen, in particular by creating local fishing groups, supporting technological innovation and strengthening institutional support. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is a disaster area. it provides permanent jobs along the coast and is a cultural landmark that must be preserved. the ageing of the fleet is hampering the modernisation capacity needed to improve the selectivity of fishing techniques, reduce unwanted catches and bring zero discards into force. the report proposes targeted support for fleet renewal in the outermost regions without increasing capacity. it also provides for an increase in the share of fishing quotas authorised for tourist activities. it would have been desirable to include the metropolitan coastal fleet, which is over 35 years old. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of small-scale fishing, especially since it is truly sustainable and creates a large number of jobs. the report seeks additional income for these small-scale fishermen but fails to address the problem, which is that the vast majority of quotas are allocated to industrial fisheries. small-scale fishermen represent 80% of the fishermen and have only 20% of the fishing quotas. however, my colleague sylvie goddyn has tabled an amendment to increase their quotas gradually.
in writing. ‒ the report is mainly about finding additional income for small-scale fishermen, but it does not really address the underlying problem, namely that quotas are mainly allocated to industrial fisheries to the detriment of small-scale fisheries. small-scale fishermen represent 80% of european fishermen but receive only about 20% of the eu's allocated quotas. industrial fishing, on the other hand, accounts for the remaining 80%. however, the amendment tabled by sylvie goddyn in committee, which calls on the commission and the member states to increase progressively the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen, was adopted. that is why we can vote in favour of this report.
in writing. this report focuses on small-scale coastal fishing, which is practised by the majority of european and french fishermen, provides a high level of employment in coastal and outermost regions and is also a more sustainable form of fishing. to save small-scale fishing, the text proposes: to create and subsidize local fisheries action groups, to support the development of complementary activities for fishermen, and to support technological innovation in products, equipment and techniques for artisanal fishermen. in addition, the fn amendment proposing the gradual increase in fishing quotas for small-scale fisheries was adopted, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the development of small-scale coastal fishing, which is fundamental from the point of view of social and economic cohesion as well as environmental protection, but which was not sufficiently recognised in the former common fisheries policy. this report calls on the commission to take account of this type of fishing. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the tomasic report on the diversification of coastal fisheries. coastal fishing is a very important form of fishing in the territory of the member states of the european union. it is particularly important because it is a major source of employment in coastal areas and is a socially and ecologically sustainable form of fishing. coastal fishing is classified and defined differently in the different member states (coastal, traditional, artisanal, etc.). in most coastal and island areas, coastal fishing is a traditional form of fishing and a way of life, and it is an important source of income. areas dependent on coastal fishing require specific measures and support to ensure their growth and development. the main reasons why diversification is necessary in the fisheries sector are the following: the decline in employment in the sector and the profitability of the sector, the fight against the marginalization of the fisheries sector in developing regions and the opportunities to take advantage of new opportunities, such as 'green' development, etc.
in writing. ‒ in addition to providing jobs, coastal fishing is socially and ecologically sustainable. however, areas dependent on coastal fishing require specific support and measures to ensure the growth and development of the activity. although coastal fishing activities need to diversify to cope with their declining profitability and their progressive marginalisation, it is important that the european union supports this vital sector. this requires first of all improvements to existing regulations. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes measures to promote innovation and diversification in small-scale coastal fishing, in order to preserve artisanal and ecologically sustainable fishing methods and the traditional livelihoods that depend on them. the measures proposed include the regionalisation of fleet management, the specific nature of island communities, a fairer allocation of quotas for small-scale fisheries, the protection of the environment and socioeconomic diversity, and more technical measures such as the prioritisation of the emff for small-scale fisheries or the classification of fishing gear. my amendments on the outermost regions, recommending in particular a better exchange of information and good practice between the various outermost fishing zones and calling for the development of local distribution channels and the potential of the oceans, coastal areas and coastal areas in terms of development, jobs, energy self-sufficiency, innovation and sustainable development, have all been adopted and incorporated into the report.
in writing. ‒ the report is mainly about finding additional income for small-scale fishermen, but it does not really address the underlying problem, namely that quotas are mainly allocated to industrial fisheries to the detriment of small-scale fisheries. small-scale fishermen represent 80% of european fishermen but receive only about 20% of the eu's allocated quotas. industrial fishing, on the other hand, accounts for the remaining 80%. however, the amendment tabled by my colleague sylvie goddyn in committee, which calls on the commission and the member states to increase the quotas allocated to small-scale fishermen gradually, was adopted. that is why i am voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it aims to take better account of the specificities of small-scale artisanal fishing, particularly in areas dependent on fishing. it is therefore essential that these areas, like the outermost regions, benefit from special provisions, in particular under the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions. coastal fishing accounts for a significant share of fisheries-related jobs, accounting for 80% of the european fleet. the text calls on the commission to adapt the definition of coastal fisheries on a case-by-case basis, taking account of the specific characteristics of the fisheries and the indicative criteria. the main aim is to take account of the specific features of coastal fishing and to ask the commission to support innovative projects and to coordinate a european study on the impact of recreational fishing on traditional fishing activities. i supported this text because it calls on the member states to give priority to coastal fishing in the allocation of funding from the european maritime and fisheries fund and also calls on the commission to encourage investment to diversify fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the main aim of the report is to provide supplementary income for small-scale fishermen and to tackle the problem of quota overrun by industrial fishing. the text proposes to help fishermen in several different ways by encouraging their diversification. in addition, my colleague sylvie goddyn's amendment on the increase in quotas for traditional fisheries was adopted. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the inclusion of sustainable development in the common fisheries policy has been an objective pursued by my group, the gue/ngl, for several years. developing socially and ecologically sustainable fisheries while contributing to the development of alternative forms of fishing is the only way to enable sustainable growth in fisheries-dependent regions. the new common fisheries policy aims to support coastal regions in their survival and development. however, since the necessary balance between economic, social and environmental interests is tending to disappear, better consideration of small-scale fishing in these regions would therefore help to meet these different objectives. the report proposes new frameworks for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and intends to take account in particular of environmental protection and the socioeconomic diversity of coastal regions. it advocates preferential access for small-scale fisheries and traditional fishermen in coastal, island and outermost areas through a more equitable distribution of quotas for small-scale fisheries. supporting local development and sustainable fisheries is key to preventing the demolition of fleets. i therefore voted in favour of this report, hoping that it will be taken into account by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this report is to assess the impact of the external dimension of the european union in order to determine whether the fisheries being exploited are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. the rapporteur calls for a framework for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies (joint ventures) to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. it should be noted that paragraph 67 advises the commission to propose a break in trade relations with countries identified as illegal fishermen. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the union's new common fisheries policy (cfp) includes significant progress and will improve european long-distance fishing standards. nevertheless, the challenges of long-distance fishing are global, and the european union must show the political will, leadership and objectivity needed to help developing countries meet the new requirements.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp) because it aims to align it with environmental, social and economic objectives: it proposes a break in trade relations with countries engaged in illegal fishing, and a framework is created for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies in order to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. this is all the more important as the cfp is indispensable, with 20 to 25% of european catches being made in the eezs of third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks in particular to determine the impact of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy in order to know its consequences from an environmental, social and economic point of view. the need arises for a framework for this external dimension, which requires the creation of agreements between european fishing companies and third countries, in order to ensure transparency and the absence of unfair competition with local fisheries. i welcome the fact that a break in trade relations with countries that support or condone illegal fishing practices has been proposed. finally, it is positive that the majority of the fees for access to fishing areas outside the eez are no longer fully paid by european taxpayers and that this is now covered by 65% by the shipowners.
in writing. ‒ to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable, the impact of the union's external dimension must be known. the report calls for the creation of a framework for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies in order to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. it can also be seen that paragraph 67 advises the commission to propose a break in trade relations with countries which are identified as practising illegal fishing. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp) extends beyond the exclusive economic zones (eez) of the union. this includes fishing on the high seas, outside any national jurisdiction, and fishing in the waters of third countries, via a bilateral fisheries agreement with the state concerned. the aim of this report is to assess the impact of the external dimension of the union in order to determine whether the fisheries being exploited are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. the rapporteur also wants to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. the commission is also urged to take action to ensure that the fishing industry is not left behind. i therefore voted in favour of this report which is concerned with the environment and local fisheries.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, namely fisheries agreements concluded between the european union and third countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. it welcomed the high standards set by the common fisheries policy in this area. i particularly support the recommendations to improve the transparency of fishing activities and the fight against illegal fishing. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the new common fisheries policy, which aims to improve the standards of european long-distance fishing. i have supported this report because i believe that the common fisheries policy is an indispensable tool for the proper functioning of fisheries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp), including fisheries agreements. the european union has strict rules on the marketing of fishery products, in particular in terms of management and transparency. through the conclusion of partnership agreements with various international actors, the european union plays a key role in the international fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
in writing. ‒ thousands of people around the world depend on the seas and oceans for their livelihoods, which are their main source of food. the european union has a leading role to play in the global governance of the seas and oceans to promote sustainable fisheries. this objective must be at the heart of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy as well as of the union's development policy. the union's high environmental and social standards must be promoted internationally in order to move towards more transparent fisheries management, ensuring product traceability, protecting artisanal fisheries and preserving fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ today, 20 to 25% of european catches take place outside the eu's exclusive economic zones and constitute the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. this dimension covers fishing on the high seas outside any national jurisdiction and fishing in the waters of third countries, either through a bilateral fisheries agreement with the state concerned or through a private agreement. the text examines whether or not the fisheries concerned are sustainable from an environmental, social and economic point of view. the rapporteur suggests that a framework should be created for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies. this is to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. the text also calls on the commission to suspend trade relations with countries that practice illegal fishing. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ vote for: the main objective is to know the impact of the external dimension of the european union, in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
in writing. ‒ the main objective is to know the impact of the external dimension of the european union, in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. the rapporteur calls for a framework for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies (joint ventures) to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. it should be noted that paragraph 67 advises the commission to propose a break in trade relations with countries identified as illegal fishermen. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs linnea engstrom, on the external dimension of the cfp. the marketing of fishery products in the union is constrained by a number of regulations which contribute to the emergence of a european industry with a competitive advantage, by improving fisheries from the point of view of environmental and social sustainability. the european union must improve the management and transparency rules in the field of fisheries worldwide. i therefore approved this proposal to create a union-wide database of all private agreements concluded between european shipowners and third countries, as well as joint ventures between european companies and companies established outside the union. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the union has a key role to play in the global governance of the seas and oceans as the world's largest market for sea products. the report aims to strengthen the eu's role in the international arena of the common fisheries policy to promote sustainable, environmentally responsible fishing standards with a high level of social protection. the union must be at the forefront of this own competence and uphold the most ambitious standards. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because, in fisheries, it makes shipowners pay more and the european union pay less. it also advised the commission to suspend the union's trade relations with countries practising illegal fishing.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it focuses on deep-sea fishing, which has been practised for centuries by european vessels. the european union has also created an external dimension to its common fisheries policy (cfp, which covers fishing activities outside european areas) to adapt to this traditional practice. the rapporteur therefore wanted to know the impact of this policy on the environment, social and economic aspects. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. in addition, paragraph 67 favours european fishermen by proposing to cut off all trade relations with countries engaged in illegal fishing. these measures are in the interests of fishermen and the national interest, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of overfishing and the fierce and often unfair competition that is now rife in all oceans, the european union must use its international influence to promote a sustainable fishing model based on respect for human rights. the text has the great merit of providing many concrete and precise proposals on these and many other subjects. i am also pleased that this report explicitly mentions the special role of the ors in the implementation of the external component of the common fisheries policy. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this draft report is in line with the common fisheries policy, which was introduced in 1982. it concerns both fishing on the high seas (i.e. outside all territorial waters) and fishing in the maritime territory of third countries. in particular, it aims to emphasise compliance with social and environmental standards, by involving transnational companies more to avoid competition with local fisheries. the draft report also proposes the cessation of trade relations with states which allow illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest market for fishery products, has one of the largest fleets flying its flag and is generally in the top three in terms of fishing capacity. the report aims to improve the union's fisheries policies, particularly in its external dimension. it encourages the union in its efforts to be transparent, to combat iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing and to promote 'high environmental and social standards'. the report also stresses the minimum conditions to be met in the context of bilateral fisheries agreements and the need to promote cooperation between regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo). i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to know the external dimension of the cfp to know whether the fisheries as they are practised are sustainable. a framework is provided for agreements between european companies and third countries. it will allow for transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. that seems like a good measure. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the proliferation of eezs around the world, which has effectively excluded european vessels from many fishing areas, has made it necessary to negotiate fisheries agreements with many third countries. the external dimension is 20 to 25% of european catches. the main objective is to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. the rapporteur calls for a framework for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies (joint ventures) to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. the text rightly advises the commission to propose a break in trade relations with countries identified as practising illegal fishing. it is proposed that the text be supported.
in writing. the main objective of this text is to know the impact of the external dimension of the eu's common fisheries policy, in order to determine whether fishing on the high seas or in the waters of a third country is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. the report calls for a framework for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies (joint ventures) to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ while china, korea and taiwan are pursuing aggressive, heavily subsidised and low taxed fisheries policies, and have less stringent environmental, social and safety standards than we impose on ourselves in europe, it is essential that the european union, which represents the largest market for fishery products in the world, has an external vision of the policy to be pursued in this area. the report stresses that the union must use its influence on the international scene to improve fisheries management and transparency rules, and not be subject to the policies of other countries. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the engström report. the european union remains the world's largest market for fishery products, has one of the largest fleets flying its flag and is generally in the top three in terms of fishing capacity. the marketing of fishery products in the union is subject to strict measures in terms of traceability, verification of catches and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. these rules help to create conditions that give european industry a competitive advantage by improving fisheries' environmental and social sustainability, by strictly applying international conventions and by regulating the market. it is clearly necessary to create a union-wide database of private agreements between european shipowners and third countries, as well as joint ventures between european companies and companies established in third countries.
in writing. ‒ following up on the text on support for coastal fishing activities, the european parliament recalled the measures taken by the union to promote sustainable fishing (traceability measures, catch verification, the fight against illegal fishing, etc.). by adopting this text, we are proposing new measures to provide greater protection for sustainable fisheries in the union. the new common fisheries policy is also part of the search for improved regulation of european long-distance fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the transparency of fishing activities outside the european union. the report proposes a regional approach to fisheries management which, thanks to my amendments, takes account of the situation in the outermost regions and ensures that local fisheries in the oct benefit from the european union's fisheries agreements with third countries. the report also contains provisions on combating illegal fishing, improving fish supplies and women's employment.
in writing. ‒ the proliferation of eezs around the world, which has effectively excluded european vessels from many fishing areas, has made it necessary to negotiate fisheries agreements with many third countries. previously, the majority of the access fees were paid by the european taxpayer, but this problem is gradually being solved: from 65% of the access fees paid by the european union to 35%. the shipowners pay the rest. the main objective of the report is to assess the impact of the external dimension of the union in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. the rapporteur calls for a framework for agreements between european companies and third countries or their companies (joint ventures) to improve transparency and avoid competition with local fisheries. it recommended that the commission propose a break in trade relations with countries identified as practising illegal fishing. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, as it recalls the requirements to be met by the european union when concluding fisheries agreements with third countries. in particular, improving the transparency of fishing activities, regionalising fisheries management (including a desire to harmonise the conditions for access by foreign vessels to the eezs of third countries) and efforts to combat illegal fishing are major elements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the common rules for the application of the external dimension of the cfp. the european union is an important market for fishery products, being the main importer of these products with a consumption of 11% of world fishery production. the text reaffirms that multilateralism and international cooperation must be the preferred platforms for the effective and sustainable management of global fisheries resources. the external dimension of the cfp needs to be consistent with its internal dimension of the union in order to carry an ambitious vision. in bilateral agreements, the focus should be on environmentally, economically and socially sustainable fisheries. the external dimension of the cfp must be based on fair and mutually beneficial relations, but also on reliable data on fish stocks. i supported this report, which recalls that the union must promote, within the external dimension of the cfp, very high environmental and social standards such as the promotion of sustainable aquaculture or the inclusion of instruments to protect workers and guarantee decent working conditions.
in writing. ‒ the main objective is to know the impact of the external dimension of the european union in order to determine whether the fisheries are environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. the so-called 'external' fisheries, outside european waters, account for 25% of european products. it is therefore essential to ensure that our fishermen have the best possible conditions for their work, while respecting marine biodiversity. the report states that trade relations with any country engaged in illegal fishing will be interrupted and the eu will pay only 35% of access fees, compared with 65% before. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
mr president, terrorism has struck again. after paris, brussels, but also tunis, bamako, istanbul, baghdad, kabul, lahore and many other cities still suffering. get your head together, dress your wounds first. act and then warn. but to prevent it intelligently, without falling into the trap of escalating false solutions, which are only effective in appearance. reassuring citizens is essential, but protecting them genuinely without false promises must be your priority. we will not give up our basic freedoms. to those who want to believe that an all-powerful state, in which every citizen is a suspect, always under surveillance, sometimes under house arrest, is infallible, i say that they are liars in the service of their own ambition. what has been missing is not information, but once again cooperation between our member states, the exchange of information, and when information is exchanged, it is not properly processed. these failures are partly due to this lack of european ambition that is paralysing everything from the economy to the fight against terrorism to the treatment of refugees. finally, you should strive to establish effective cooperation and create the area of freedom, security and justice that the european union should be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, the tragedy in brussels, a few months after the appalling attacks in paris, has once again shown the failings of your europe, that strainer which allows all criminals, all traffickers, all terrorists to move and act freely. once again, you're trying to sell to the people that a federal seal is the only way to find a solution. that's not true! the only thing that can stop criminals are national borders, which you have destroyed, national controls, police resources, customs, which european austerity has also largely shattered. it is the states that have the competence, the capacity, the duty, the responsibility to secure our fellow citizens. by weakening them, the european union has seriously endangered the lives of hundreds of our compatriots. your european agencies have never worked and will never work. the national services are weakened and are no longer able to cooperate effectively. your european agencies cannot and have never been able to replace them. they are only contributing to the inefficient and often liberticidal squandering of resources. it is no coincidence that radical islamist terrorism has found a large number of safe havens in one of the weakest states of the european union. your so-called capital of europe, which is dedicated to all kinds of communitarianism, has unfortunately become a capital of crime. ladies and gentlemen of the commission, your ideology blinds you and makes you incapable of anticipating anything. the islamic state group had announced that they would use the flow of migrants to infiltrate terrorists, suicide bombers who would kill us. how could you think he wouldn't? i remember in this house we were laughed at when we rang the alarm bell. you hand migrants over to smugglers, you enrich the turkish state whose game in syria is more than confused, you let in and circulate terrorists. the european union's responsibility in these tragedies is terrifying. wherever you could have been wrong, you were wrong. you should humbly admit your mistakes and give the people the freedom they demand by voting when they are given the chance, for example in the netherlands and soon in the united kingdom, against the abominable europeanist fantasy. your beloved european union may be in danger of disappearing, and that is all the better! it will be more security, more freedom, more democracy and more prosperity.
mr president, the terrorist attacks in brussels and paris must not go unpunished. we must not only secure strong and very severe sentences for the terrorists, but also review our monitoring and intelligence methods, so as to arrest as early as possible those individuals whose behaviour and radicalisation lead to this terrorist barbarity. i voted in favour of a report on the prevention of radicalisation last december. members of all political groups have been involved and have contributed to the adoption of this report. measures are being implemented, such as the reform of the schengen code, the strengthening of the exchange of information on criminal records, the creation of deradicalisation programmes at european level and, i hope, finally the vote on the pnr next thursday. many other similar measures have begun to be implemented, such as those clearly stated by my colleague mr deprez, with whom i fully agree. i would also like to ask the european commission to finally make proposals with the same clarity so that we can fight this barbarity. we can no longer be satisfied with incantations or mere reminders of principles. european citizens are tired of such attitudes.
in writing. the union can bring undeniable added value in the fight against terrorism. it is also necessary that the member states should be able to work together through their police, judicial and intelligence services. they still need to overcome their differences in order to be able to exchange and process information in a relevant way, further feeding into existing databases. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. it is also essential to tighten the grip on the illegal use of firearms. the shortcomings of the current legislation have created legal loopholes that benefit terrorists - recent attacks have been carried out with alarm weapons converted into lethal weapons and with deactivated firearms that had been reactivated. weapons should not be seen as everyday goods but as dangerous tools whose use must be controlled to enhance the security of europeans. finally, the drying up of the sources of terrorist financing, the fight against the trafficking of forged documents, but also a european harmonization in the field of railway safety, are all immense projects which call for our full and complete mobilization.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i am pleased to see that the dutch presidency is sending the minister of defence to us. we're going to attack tax evasion with military means, which may be a good thing. i welcome his presence! much more seriously, this is a subject on which, for the liberal group, there is no doubt that there is action to be taken on two levels. firstly, there is an investigative action, and i believe that we are in favour, as are other groups in this house, of trying to deepen the work done by journalists and to which mr moscovici paid tribute. so there is the aspect of getting a better understanding of what happened, of checking whether we really have all the information. this is a survey work, which also covers both companies and, for the first time, private individuals. secondly, i think it is also very important that the committee on economic and monetary affairs should devote its attention to taxation - i say 'taxation', the equivalent of tax in english - and that the committee on economic and monetary affairs should be able to give its opinion on this subject. i insist because it's often translated in the weirdest way as "the interest they deserve". that said, there are texts to be adopted in a number of areas, and we welcome the new proposals, particularly on the communication of information, namely the work that has been adopted by the committee today. then there is the other level, which mr pittella mentioned, namely the important criminal aspect, with money laundering. for that we need other committees, namely libe or juri. so i think this parliament must be involved beyond its own competence. in any case, it is not enough to put things on paper. the questions of implementation, control and possible sanctions against those who do not comply with the rules should, in my view, be examined in greater depth, particularly at the global level. we voted this morning on my report, a small own-initiative report on our role in the global forums. i think that one of the added values of the european union must be to fight for implementation and for sanctions. we are a legal order, and this must be spread worldwide. once again, we, the presidency and the commission, are at your disposal to help you. it is a serious matter and unfortunately it is not going to disappear from our radar screens.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, in the face of this new tax scandal of the panama papers, which is not a scoop, the national front reiterates its political and ethical determination. since the beginning of the mandate, we have voted on all the european texts on combating fraud and tax evasion and tax optimisation. i invite you to check it out. unlike mr juncker, we reject the double-talk and hypocrisy of certain governments. the taxation of the states and their social systems must be compensated by the citizens, while the public deficits over which you, mr moscovici, have a great deal of control are at their highest. this tax inequity is an economic crime against the people. the multinationals which use these tax evasion schemes, in particular the us companies google, apple, facebook, starbucks, etc., whose favourite sport is to evade payment of corporation tax in europe by means of questionable schemes, must be condemned. but we must also denounce the responsibility of the lawyers of the multinationals, their advisers, the "big four", including pricewaterhouse, their accountants and certain banks, such as hsbc, ubs, etc. beyond the mere condemnation of fraud in principle, the united states is the big absentee in the investigation of the international consortium of investigative journalists. no disclosures about us tax havens, such as nevada, etc. no north american personality, no big wall street bank, no hedge fund, when you know that the donors who fund the consortium are the ford, carnegie, rockefeller, kellogg's and a certain soros, you understand better: tell me where the leaks are coming from, and i'll tell you who benefits. in the current world economic war, these panama papers have an undeniable purpose, namely to denounce non-american personalities, but beware of this little game of a compromising document [...] (the president withdraws the speaker)
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am surprised that in a little over two and a half minutes our colleague from the enf group did not have time to mention, in connection with the panama papers scandal, the fact that the name of the founder of the national front was mentioned for an account in panama, as was that of the main company responsible for the communication of the national front's electoral campaigns. i think he was talking about the watered-down sprinkler, it was a self-critical beginning on his part.
answer is "blue cardboard". you're in a good place to talk, aren't you? that's right, except the national front has nothing to do with this tax haven business. i'm talking about the national front, all right? the two people you're referring to have made it clear that they had nothing to do with this... okay? there is transparency, everything has been declared; as far as mr. le pen is concerned, he has nothing to do with this, okay? so it's a libel and slander, you're leaning behind your... how to say...?
madam president, commissioner, the revelations of the past week remind us of one thing: the anti-money laundering rules are not being respected, neither by some very large banks and other tax intermediaries, nor by some member states and national supervisory authorities who have let it happen. laundering is a business. the citizens' agitation has reached a climax. the double-talk of our governments and the frivolity of the legislative proposals have undermined confidence. the secrecy and the limited resources available to tax investigators affect the very heart of our democracies. we have a right to know who cheated and how, and those responsible must be held accountable. it is to shed light on this system of fraud on an industrial scale that my group has proposed the creation of a committee of inquiry. i thank all the colleagues who have given their support. we will not allow the effects of the announcement to be passed on without anything happening, and we do not understand why, when you have a boulevard in front of you and the support of world public opinion, you do not propose a real ...
madam president, since 2001 and the clearstream affair, there's been one scandal a year involving tax evasion and tax fraud. the truth is that all this is built into the genetic code of the european union, which encourages tax evasion. article 163 prohibits tax harmonisation, which is tantamount to encouraging the least fortunate. article 63 facilitates all transactions and prohibits any limitation between countries. that is why, because this system is legal, you have succeeded in electing as president of the commission the person who was responsible for one of those scandals. and after two meetings of the parliamentary committee session, you still haven't found anything. but on april 26th, the two whistleblowers who exposed the scandal will be brought to trial. they face ten years in prison and a fine of one million euros. under these circumstances, with the panama papers case, it's the same story all over again. the french bank société générale was under the control of the ecb while it was opening offshore companies. its president lied under oath to french parliamentarians, but who is being prosecuted? i'm the one who's been charged with libel. the only thing you can do here, since your devices are useless, is protect the whistleblowers, because they're paying dearly for their courage for all of us.
madam president, commissioner, you are in charge of a matter which has remained unchanged for years. i hope that with your encouragement, with the support of this parliament, as we have begun to do, and with the support of all those who are mobilized, whistleblowers, journalists, citizens, to put an end to this scandal of tax evasion, we can make progress. so i want to assure you of our full support and express my conviction that if this european parliament transforms its special committee into a committee of inquiry, the only objective is to be able to consolidate our position in this fight which we must wage in a determined way, here in the european union, on the basis of the proposals that you put on the table day after day, but also in the g20 meetings, since this is a question which we must deal with on an equal footing with our partners, if we are to finally meet the expectations of our fellow citizens in a field where, over the years, we have basically let too many multinationals run the show and where it is now up to us to tell us what the rules are. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, everyone will be speaking today to congratulate the commission on its work on tax transparency. i have no intention of destroying this beautiful and moving moment of european communion. but finally, i would like to point out that in july this parliament voted a resolution which was much more ambitious than the text you are presenting today. i would simply like to draw attention tonight to those who have made it possible for us to have this debate today. i would like to pay tribute to those who, despite the risks they face and the prosecutions they are subject to, are involved in defending the public interest: i am thinking of whistleblowers. so, commissioner, i have just one question. it's simple, but i'm asking you to answer it in good conscience. why do we have to wait for ordinary citizens to report facts that everyone knows before the commission finally wants to act on tax transparency?
mr president, commissioner, many colleagues have said it in all the parliaments: it is because there have been whistleblowers, the revelation of scandals, the mobilisation of associations and ngos, the pressure also from the european parliament - for once, we can welcome it - that we have reached this text today, which is undoubtedly going in the right direction, because country-by-country reporting allows both a real traceability of the profits of multinationals and a move towards the restoration of equality in taxation. i would remind you once again, as others have, that smes now pay much more in corporation tax than multinationals, which is good, but as my social democrat colleagues and peter simon have said on several occasions, i believe that we can go further on turnover at the moment, because the figure of 40 million that we are proposing, rather than 750 million, is already in the accounting directive to characterize a large company - so let's go ahead, let's have that audacity. as for the mapping of information, mrs ferrara said this earlier: 28 countries are good, tax havens are good, but we must not encourage fraudulent schemes in other countries; so, on these two points, the social democrats... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, madam high representative, you have an impossible job, and i am very sad to see that this parliament does not make it easier for you with its endless sittings. in short, since a minute to talk about such serious subjects is still quite ridiculous, the overall strategy which is to be drawn up is an indispensable and welcome exercise, but i would not like it to make us lose sight of another priority, which is the implementation of the strategies already in existence. the european union and your services are drowning in strategy. each geographical area, each theme already has a strategy, and we are struggling to implement them effectively. a rather tragic example: this afternoon, france lost a new 19-year-old soldier in northern mali, and three others were seriously injured. we have had a strategy for the sahel for more than five years - a smart strategy, combining security and development. we are still a long way from having implemented it effectively. so i say yes to a global strategy, but please let there be results, implementation, flexibility and priorities.
the debate is closed. the competent authorities shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. today we must address the main aspects and fundamental choices of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy. your main aspects of the common foreign and security policy are characterised by your failures. never has europe been so silent and disregarded in all the great issues that are affecting the world, and yet never have the dangers been so great. it is the united states, russia or china that talk, act, negotiate and profit from their powers. your main foreign policy choices are based on a submission to interests that are not ours and that deprive us of important means to make our voice heard. your structure exists only on paper. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is an empty shell with no influence on world affairs and a waste of european taxpayers' money. we recall that nations are sovereign and that defence and foreign affairs are the prerogatives of each state.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in nagorno-karabakh (2016/2650 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, once again our human rights diplomacy, our diplomacy of the unreal, is being overtaken by the real, the real of identities. in nagorno-karabakh, 80 per cent of the population is armenian, and it was stalin, the commissioner for nationalities, who integrated this region, the cradle of armenian identity, into the soviet republic of azerbaijan. we have the same problem in eastern ukraine, where the russian populations were integrated, at that time, into ukraine, also by stalin. your policy, madam mogherini, is to ask the osce minsk group and its three co-chairs, russia, france and the united states, to get this peace process back on track. in other words, european diplomacy is left to the states, and that is right. russia is a factor of peace, unlike the pyromaniac of this new conflagration, i mean the satrap erdoğan, who finances terrorism and blackmails and even crawls europe. it's a shame!
madam president, 'europe prefers to relocate police officers rather than relocate refugees'. this is how one european ngo summed up the summit last march. the hotspots became detention camps. without any real examination of individuals, including syrians, they are being sent back to a country where this parliament is denouncing violations of human rights, migrants who are not in need of international protection, men and increasingly women and children. the reception is at zero. the un special rapporteur on the rights of migrants tells us that the agreement, rather than saving lives, will put them in danger. the unhcr considers this agreement to be contrary to international law and refuses to participate in its implementation, as do many ngos, and you dare to speak of respect for human dignity. what more can i say than that i am ashamed, ashamed to be a european, and to see values such as the right to asylum trampled underfoot because european leaders refuse to confront public opinion. this is how populism is fuelled. the realists are those who look at the world as it is and look for concrete solutions - yes, like legal ways, yes, like a real european right to asylum - and who do not let people die in the mediterranean. the european union is the richest economic area in the world. it must show solidarity in the face of the humanitarian crisis our planet is facing.
madam president, on 18 march last, chancellor merkel and the other so-called negotiators of this agreement with turkey actually gave in to all of sultan erdoğan's demands. the leaders who preside over the destinies of our drifting continent have signed a new blank check to the turkish fireman. the three billion euros previously allocated to turkey have been doubled, all at the expense of our taxpayers. worse still, despite the shadowy links between the turks and the barbarians of the islamic state, and despite the fact that turkey allows the smuggling mafia to flourish, it has been decided to grant its 80 million citizens unrestricted access to the schengen area. that is why commissioner avramopoulos asked us yesterday to 'adapt to the new era of human mobility'. on 1 july slovakia will take over the presidency of the european union. slovakia's prime minister robert fico has denounced what he called europe's ritual suicide. like his hungarian, polish and czech counterparts, he sees clearly that your multicultural utopia is a failure.
madam president, i remember that at the end of 2015, president juncker told us that it was urgent to find a solution before the arrival of spring and the increase in the migration flow. the agreement with turkey has at least the merit of being there, but much remains to be done, because turkey is now the master of the game, and it is playing on the weakness of the european union. it is enough to be on the ground to see major dysfunctions and flaws in the asylum procedure in athens. greece is facing an explosion of asylum applications, with 500,000 migrants and refugees on its territory, and in the face of this situation there is a severe shortage of staff on the ground, and the experts promised by the member states are not arriving. let's not be naive president erdoğan has not given up on raising the bid either. last thursday he took the pleasure of reminding us that turkey would not respect its part of the agreement if the european union itself did not honour its promises, referring to the visa exemption promised too soon to turkish citizens. the evasion of responsibility by some european leaders is scandalous. france has also been conspicuous by its immobility and lack of involvement, leaving mrs merkel to negotiate with turkey alone. this should not make us forget another urgent matter, the fight against unemployment. and now, i'd like to talk about the steel industry. let us not be mistaken, it is not a question of protecting an industry in decline but, on the contrary, of defending an industry of the future against completely unfair competition. so we must act quickly, very quickly, to combat dumping, with anti-dumping duties, and put in place really fast procedures.
madam president, is the eu-turkey agreement - or whatever name it is called - satisfactory? in my opinion, the answer is no. however, the organizers of this arrangement have gone to great lengths to wrap the gift in beautiful gift wrap. on paper, it is repeatedly said that it is fully in line with eu and international law, but on the ground, its implementation raises questions. questions about the legality of the proposed scheme i am not the first to say this. the referral mechanism to turkey is based on the notions of 'first country of asylum' and 'safe third country' and in both cases the protection that asylum seekers or refugees can claim in turkey is not really satisfactory. it is obviously for the judge to decide all this, but the first assessments are, at this stage, tilting the balance in the direction of 'no'. questions on applicability: the referral mechanism poses a number of logistical problems in greece, in particular to ensure individual examination, an appeal procedure and a dignified reception of the populations. again, the implementation of the agreement does not seem to be in line with the guarantees announced on paper. questions about effectiveness: the plan seeks to stop the flow of migrants across the aegean sea at all costs. it is very likely that other routes will open up, and there is an increase in flows from libya to italy and malta, and there are even reports of passages through ukraine. increasingly, this agreement is looking like a hellish machine that could go wild and become uncontrollable and uncontrolled, and contribute to the unraveling of european values and foundations. these critics, they need to be heard. as you can understand, this agreement, this dangerous object, raises not only questions but also reservations in my mind. i believe, however, that it also exists because it has not been possible to develop an alternative project because of the lack of solidarity on the part of the member states.
madam president, of course we must have a dialogue with turkey, if only to stop the abominable traffic in criminal smugglers, but this must not in any way divert us from our own responsibilities. europe cannot delegate its right of asylum to the countries around it. on the contrary, it must assume its right to asylum, harmonize it, finally reform dublin and manage legal and safe access routes for syrian refugees, as canada has recently done, for example. similarly, europe cannot delegate the management of its own borders. it must instead set up a border and coast guard corps and systematize control at its external borders, including for its own nationals. finally, europe cannot delegate its power to influence the settlement of the syrian conflict. it must be much more than that, and here too it must finally assume its full responsibility.
madam president, everything has been said on the question of the agreement between the european union and turkey. so i would like to address two other conclusions of the european council. the first is that in june, at the european council on 28 june, the question of completing economic and monetary union will have to be on the agenda. this discussion must be prepared, and i hope that, whatever the outcome of the referendum in the united kingdom, for which we want a 'yes' from the british people to the agreement that has been reached, we will be in a position to put the question of completing economic and monetary union on the table immediately. this case has gone on long enough. there is an urgent need to consolidate this foundation of the union. then, as regards the situation in the steel industry, fortunately the heads of state and government have sounded the alarm. there is a global overcapacity which is undermining the very foundations of a steel industry in europe. at council level, the dutch presidency must take determined action to ensure that the european public's expectations regarding trade defence are met in relation to the commission's communication.
mr president, in the interests of compromise, ladies and gentlemen, in an attempt to reconcile opinions and to minimise differences, i would like to propose the following amendment to amendment no 11, part 1: 'requests the commission to renew the approval of glyphosate for a maximum period of seven years; recalls that regulation (ec) no 11 07 2009 allows the commission to withdraw the approval of an active substance during the period for which it has been authorised if it no longer meets the approval criteria.'
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim of this report is to mobilise eur 1.793 million to reintegrate 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by the volvo group trucks operation into the labour market. even if this text tries to hide the fact that this type of disaster is only the consequence of the free trade policies of the union, i am standing up for these workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ while the egf is a sham designed to timidly mask the consequences of the union's trade policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities, it seems useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free-trade whims of the european commission. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for eur 1 793 710 in aid from the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to help redundant volvo trucks employees to find a job. the assistance provided by this fund is welcome to revitalize and support this branch of activity. however, i regret that the aid is being paid out in conjunction with the redundancies, whereas it could have been of great value in helping the company to restructure. it is urgent to act and to understand that our companies are the victims of the lack of structural reforms necessary to adapt to the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i can only support this report which calls for granting, with the help of the egf, aid of eur 1.793 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations in sweden. however, i deplore the irony of a report which presents the competition of asian manufacturers as the cause of these redundancies, when the eu, in the name of free trade, continues to open up the european market to asian products. that is why the egf, however beneficial it may be for those swedish workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the commission, will remain a mere piece of cake until the essential problem of eu trade policy is solved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting €1.793 million to volvo employees through the european globalisation adjustment fund. they are in turn victims of the fierce competition between our car industries and the chinese market, which, as we know, has cheap labour. this allows the chinese giant to carve out the lion's share of the automotive sector with 34% market share. the union, which has opened its market to all winds without applying the necessary economic patriotism as its main competitors - chinese and american - do, is then able to pity the precarious situation of employees and grant them this meagre compensation, which is only a bandage on open wounds.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise eur 1.793 million to reintegrate 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations back into the labour market. even if this text tries to conceal the fact that these layoffs are the result of widespread free trade and unbridled globalisation, i have spoken in favour of this report, which is primarily a response to an emergency situation. nevertheless, it is essential to question the current ultra-liberal paradigm, which is the source of poverty and destroys jobs. i therefore voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help sweden, which is facing redundancies in the automotive sector. sweden has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in its territory at volvo group truck operations emea and at four downstream suppliers and producers. the swedish government attributes the redundancies to developments in international trade, and in particular to china's increasingly aggressive role in the construction of commercial vehicles. a budget of eur 1 793 710 is earmarked for compensation and reintegration assistance for workers. i have supported this report because i believe that the union must promote the transition of its economy towards sectors that generate growth and jobs.
in writing. the european commission's proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to enable sweden to receive financial contributions from the egf to support the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market. sweden has complied with the conditions for granting financial contributions from the egf and the redundancies are due to major changes in international trade, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the global economic and financial crisis has hit many sectors of european industry hard. in this context, the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up to provide rapid assistance to employees affected by the crisis, is clearly useful. but beyond the specific and one-off assistance that the fund can provide, the european union urgently needs to put in place a real strategy to better anticipate economic changes, to safeguard smes, to implement a forward-looking investment policy and to equip itself with real instruments for trade defence.
in writing. ‒ the text provides for almost eur 1.8 million to help reintegrate 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations, its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden, into the labour market. i voted for this text, which contributes to the reintegration of the workers concerned. it must be stressed, however, that the europeans once again deplore the effects of what they cherish as causes. asian competition appears to be the main cause of these redundancies. this is not surprising, since article 63 of the feu treaty opens the door to mass relocations, by prohibiting any restrictions on the movement of capital throughout the world.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: aims to grant €1.793 million to help reintegrate 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations, its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden, into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the negrescu report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks) aims to grant eur 1.793 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations, its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden. it is interesting to note that the report mentions competition from asian manufacturers as the main cause of these redundancies, while the eu spends its time negotiating free trade agreements with these countries, thus increasing the rope to hang us. indeed, china has become the world's number 1 commercial vehicle producer with a market share of 34,1%. if the egf is a sham to timidly mask the consequences of eu trade policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities, this aid seems useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague victor negrescu on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 600 redundant employees of volvo trucks in sweden. the report argues that it is appropriate to mobilise the egf to grant the amount of eur 1 793 710 at the request of the swedish government. i have approved this proposal to provide support for employees who have been made redundant and selfemployed workers who have ceased their activity because of major changes in the structure of international trade in connection with the dynamics of globalisation, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerns the 500 employees of the volvo trucks group in sweden who were made redundant in 2015. the mobilisation of this fund, which i voted for, will make it possible to offer the employees of this group support for reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for volvo trucks. the report aims to provide eur 1.793 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations, its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden. it is interesting to note that the report mentions competition from asian manufacturers as the main cause of these redundancies, while the eu spends its time negotiating free trade agreements with these countries, thus increasing the rope to hang us. indeed, china has become the world's number 1 commercial vehicle producer with a market share of 34,1%. if the egf is a sham designed to timidly mask the consequences of the union's trade policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities, this aid seems useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it provides €1.793 million to help 500 workers made redundant by volvo to reintegrate.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it is a curious and tragic irony that the european union is forced to support the 500 of the 647 workers laid off by volvo group trucks operations and its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden, while it continues to negotiate free trade agreements with third countries that compete with our european manufacturers. although eu trade policies are emancipating large companies, the €1.793 million in aid for the reintegration of these workers into the labour market is useful, as they do not have to suffer the free trade madness of the european commission.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the negrescu report on mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide eur 1.793 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 to 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations, its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden. this report points to competition with low-cost asian countries. at the same time, the european union continues to negotiate and conclude free trade agreements with these states. it is true that this measure would deal with the consequences, not the causes, of this tragedy of savage liberalism, but on a human level we are in favour of helping these workers.
in writing. ‒ at the end of 2014, a volvo truck production site in sweden closed, putting nearly 650 workers on the job. in early 2015, volvo bought 45% of a chinese company and continued its relocations without ever being worried. worse, the report even excuses it. it is not his fault, the redundancies are "driven by the need to increase efficiency and reduce costs in order to cope with current and future global competition". the commission adds: 'structural changes are necessary to maintain profitability in the european truck market'. if it does not want to talk about the dumping policy encouraged by the union, ad minima, the report would be obliged to highlight these contradictions. volvo group is seven times the net profit in 2015 and the world's second-largest heavy-duty truck maker. i am voting against this real relocation subsidy.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to reintegrate 500 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations. beyond the bad faith of the text which attributes these dismissals to chinese competition, it seems to me that this piss-aller has some use in the reintegration of these employees. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to provide €1.793 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations, its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden. it is interesting to note that the report mentions competition from asian manufacturers as the main cause of these redundancies, while the eu spends its time negotiating free trade agreements with these countries, thus increasing the rope to hang us. indeed, china has become the world's number 1 commercial vehicle producer with a market share of 34,1%. while this fund is a sham designed to timidly mask the consequences of the union's trade policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities, this aid seems useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the consequences of the european commission's free trade policies.
in writing. the negrescu report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks) seeks to grant eur 1,793 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by 'volvo group trucks operations', its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden. it is interesting to note that the report mentions competition from asian manufacturers as the main cause of these redundancies, while the union spends its time negotiating free trade agreements with these countries, thus increasing the rope to hang us. indeed, china has become the world's number 1 commercial vehicle producer with a market share of 34,1%. if the egf is a sham designed to timidly mask the consequences of the union's trade policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities, this aid seems useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to grant financial assistance of eur 1 793 710 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to sweden for the company volvo trucks, which laid off 647 people for economic reasons between 24 february 2015 and 24 june 2015. the purpose of this fund, set up in 2006, is to help people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation (delocalisation, business closures, etc.), in their job search or in their professional conversion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted two reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of both of his reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 1 793 710 from the fund for 647 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the volvo group truck operation emea company in sweden. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of the fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i supported sweden's request to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to compensate swedish employees. the application fulfilled the conditions for access to the egf and, as such, did not give rise to any legitimate objections.
in writing. ‒ the negrescu report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2015/009 se/volvo trucks) aims to grant eur 1.793 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 500 of the 647 workers made redundant by volvo group trucks operations, its four suppliers and subcontractors in sweden. it is interesting to note that the report mentions competition from asian manufacturers as the main cause of these redundancies, while the eu spends its time negotiating free trade agreements with these countries, thus increasing the rope to hang us. indeed, china has become the world's number 1 commercial vehicle producer with a market share of 34,1%. if the egf is a sham designed to timidly mask the consequences of the union's trade policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities, this aid seems useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in international trade, such as relocations or business closures. in this case, the swedish company volvo trucks applied for the egf and i supported the european participation of 60% in the project, which will be aimed in particular at assisting former employees in their job search or in starting up a business. the fight for employment is a constant struggle and europe is acting within its powers to provide support to enable citizens affected by unemployment to reintegrate quickly into working life.
in writing. ‒ this report is acceptable because it allows 500 workers to re-enter the labour market. however, i note that he does everything he can to cover up the weaknesses of european policy. indeed, volvo trucks laid off its workers because chinese competition was too strong, and because of a partnership policy led by the european union. i am voting for this report, and i would remind you that prevention is better than cure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the report proposes to release eur 380 000 to finance, among other things, the collection and monitoring of information by the commission, the extension of the egf website managed by the commission and the establishment of administrative and technical support. whether these measures could encourage the use of the egf to deal with economic redundancies is a matter for the member states alone. finally, this text tends to make people forget that these funds come from national taxpayers and not from the european union.
in writing. ‒ the provisions of this report, which are of relative importance, may be useful in encouraging the application for egf assistance following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and should not give the illusion that it is the union which grants aid when the funds come from national taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for eur 380 000 of aid under the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to help european public actors in the field of technical assistance. however, i regret that the aid is being paid out in conjunction with the redundancies, whereas it could have been of great value in helping the company to restructure. it is urgent to act and to understand that our companies are the victims of the lack of structural reforms necessary to adapt to the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this measure proposing to mobilise eur 380 000 for the commission to develop the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund, managed by the commission) and to create a standardised procedure for applications for assistance from the egf, as well as administrative and technical support and networking of states. these provisions, which are of minor importance, could perhaps be useful in encouraging the application for assistance from the egf following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and there should be no illusion that it is the eu that is providing the aid when the funds come from national taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this novakov report which attempts to broaden the technical framework for managing the egf. it is true that it might be useful to ensure better organisation through the actual collection and monitoring of information by the commission, and to create a standardised procedure for requests for assistance from the egf. however, it should be remembered that the 380 000 euros requested to finance this simplification of the administrative management of the requests for assistance from the egf come from the pockets of national taxpayers. in this sense, this competence should be vested in the member states, which are better placed to manage it in accordance with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. it is also worth recalling that if the states were free to pursue a genuine policy of economic patriotism, we would no longer need this adjustment instrument which is only an admission of the devastating consequences of unbridled globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to release eur 380 000 to finance the collection and monitoring of information by the commission, the extension of the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) website, the creation of a standardised procedure for requests for assistance and the provision of administrative and technical support. although these provisions may facilitate access to the egf for workers made redundant, i have spoken out against a report which aims to give the illusion of a social and solidarity-based europe when these funds are fed by contributions from the member states. that is why i voted against this text on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf).
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). as part of the technical assistance to be financed, the commission intends to mobilise eur 380 000 for information collection, publication of information, administrative and technical support and networking. i supported this report, considering that information and communication are essential tools for the transparency of european activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to enable the european commission to finance technical assistance activities. this amount is intended to finance, inter alia, the monitoring, information, monitoring and evaluation activities of the egf.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to mobilise eur 380 000 to finance the collection and monitoring of information by the commission, the extension of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) website managed by the commission, the creation of a standardised procedure for egf applications, administrative and technical support, and networking of member states through the organisation of seminars. these provisions, which are of minor importance, may be useful in encouraging the application for egf assistance following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and should not give the illusion that it is the union which grants the aid, whereas the funds are financed by national taxpayers. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ the navokov report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: 'egf/2016/000 ta 2016/technical assistance at the initiative of the commission' proposes to mobilise eur 380 000 to finance the collection and follow-up of information by the commission, the extension of the egf website managed by the commission, the creation of a standardised procedure for egf applications (with an application interface), administrative and technical support, networking of member states through the organisation of seminars, etc. these provisions, which are of minor importance, may be useful in encouraging the application for assistance from the egf following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and should not give the illusion that it is the union which grants aid when the funds come from national taxpayers. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the novakov report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for technical assistance. the objective of this report is to mobilise eur 380 000 for technical assistance for the financial year 2016. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which will enable the european commission to provide additional support to workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund which proposes to mobilise eur 380 000 to finance the collection and monitoring of information by the commission, the extension of the egf website managed by the commission, the creation of a standardised procedure for applications for assistance from the egf (with an application interface, etc.), administrative and technical support, networking of member states through the organisation of seminars, etc. these provisions, which are of minor importance, may be useful in encouraging the application for assistance from the egf following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and should not give the illusion that it is the union which grants aid when the funds come from national taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives the commission €380 000 to finance minor operations of questionable interest.
in writing. ‒ the text seeks to mobilise eur 380 000 to finance a number of minor proposals (information collection and monitoring by the commission, expansion of the egf website, european globalisation adjustment funds, etc.). the use of the egf for redundancies must be encouraged, but i do not want to be associated with a proposal which further chains the member states and gives greater powers to the european union, which claims to solve tragedies by distributing funds from national taxpayers. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report proposes the mobilisation of eur 380 000 to finance administrative technical assistance measures for the commission. we are not opposed to the ad hoc mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, but it should be remembered that it is the states which are the providers.
in writing. ‒ the commission is in particular responsible for compiling all applications submitted under the european globalisation adjustment fund, which assists redundant smes and multinationals relocating. it is asking for eur 380 000 to manage these requests for funds from the states, the data, publications, the dedicated website and exchange training between the competent national authorities. i welcome the fact that parliament is finally asking for precise information on the rate of reintegration of redundant workers and the type and quality of the contract they are getting. the report also supports more extensive support, especially for young people. i note, however, that the commission has delegated part of this work to a private contractor without consulting anyone. i would also like to say that i do not wish to give the commission any satisfaction until it has reviewed its requirements for companies that relocate. under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ i do not forget that the funds requested in this report come from the member states. it would be inappropriate for the eu to take full credit for the aid it has given. this is a matter for the member states. so, although it may provide some relief in the face of economic redundancies, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the navokov report proposes to mobilise eur 380 000 to finance the collection and monitoring of information by the commission, the extension of the egf website managed by the commission, the creation of a standardised procedure for egf applications (with an application interface, etc.), administrative and technical support, networking of member states through the organisation of seminars, etc. these provisions, which are of minor importance, may be useful in encouraging the application for assistance from the fund following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and should not give the illusion that it is the union which grants aid when the funds come from national taxpayers. the vote is therefore against.
in writing. the navokov report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: 'egf/2016/000 ta 2016/technical assistance at the initiative of the commission' proposes to mobilise eur 380 000 to finance the collection and monitoring of information by the commission, the extension of the egf website managed by the commission, the creation of a standardised procedure for egf applications (with an application interface, etc.), administrative and technical support, networking of member states through the organisation of seminars, etc. these provisions, which are of minor importance, may be useful in encouraging the application for assistance from the egf following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and should not give the illusion that it is the union which grants aid when the funds come from national taxpayers. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to mobilise eur 380 000 for technical assistance from the commission for the european globalisation adjustment fund, to help people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation. as part of this technical assistance, the fund is involved in financing monitoring, information, knowledge base and interface activities and advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted two reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of both of his reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 380 000 for technical assistance from the national authorities for the implementation of measures co-financed under this fund. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ under the regulation, the european commission has the possibility to use up to 0.5% of the european globalisation adjustment fund to finance technical assistance. i therefore voted in favour of the commission's purely procedural initiative.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise eur 380 000 to finance the collection and monitoring of information by the commission, the extension of the egf website managed by the commission, the creation of a standardised procedure for requests for assistance from the egf (with an application interface, etc.), administrative and technical support, networking of member states through the organisation of seminars, etc. these provisions, which are of minor importance, may be useful in encouraging the application for assistance from the egf following economic redundancies. however, this competence should be reserved to the member states and should not give the illusion that it is the eu that is providing aid when the funds come from national taxpayers. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for technical assistance. the objective of this report is to mobilise eur 380 000 for technical assistance for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes a reform of the european globalisation adjustment fund with the aim of making it even more operational, but it should not give the illusion that it is the european union that grants aid when the funds come from national taxpayers. it is for the member states alone to have this competence. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the draft amending budget. the text aimed to create a budgetary structure for the emergency aid instrument by redeploying €100 million in commitment appropriations and €80.2 million in payment appropriations for eu countries facing the migrant crisis. the reinforcement of europol's staff, through the creation of 25 additional posts (€2 million in commitment appropriations), is also proposed here. it must be remembered, however, that these instruments, which will be very expensive and ineffective, represent above all a real appeal to immigration. we also strongly condemn the fact that europol has underestimated the reality of the migration flows, namely the infiltration of these networks by is fighters. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this report includes two main elements: the creation of a budgetary structure to provide assistance more quickly to eu countries facing migrant crises; the reinforcement of the staff of europol's european counter-terrorism centre to provide assistance to member states. the creation of 25 additional posts requires eur 2 million in commitment and payment appropriations. these instruments will prove to be totally inefficient, costly and even harmful, creating a huge air demand for future migrants. the only effective migration policy is to re-establish national borders to allow states to freely decide on their migration policy, as well as systematically to return migrants and to set up refugee centres in countries bordering war zones. as for the fight against terrorism, it cannot be entrusted to a body (europol) which has underestimated the fact that the islamic state could use migration flows to infiltrate terrorists and which promotes the total dismantling of national borders. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the massive influx of refugees and migrants into europe has created an exceptional situation in which large numbers of people are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance, exceeding the organisational capacity of one or more member states. in addition, it has become necessary for the union to substantially reinforce europol's staff in response to the refugee crisis and to allow the functioning of the recently established european counter-terrorism centre. europe must respond to the refugee crisis and the terrorist threat by pooling its resources and information. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report, which presents a budgetary adjustment for 2016 to provide emergency assistance within the union, proposes the creation of a budgetary structure for the emergency assistance instrument to provide assistance more quickly to eu countries facing migrant crises through redeployment of appropriations, as well as the reinforcement of staff at europol's european counter-terrorism centre. i am opposed to these measures, which are both costly and ineffective, because they refuse to tackle the real problems of migration and to allow member states to decide their migration policy in a sovereign manner. in addition, europol has shown itself to be ineffective in the fight against the perpetrators of the paris attacks, unlike national intelligence services. i will not condone an unconscious immigration and security policy.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on the draft amending budget on the new instrument for providing emergency aid within the union. the rapporteur tends to forget that the need for such aid stems from the european union's disastrous choices in terms of migration policy. when we open the doors wide, it is rather tempting to make the states suffering from this flood believe that they will benefit from the redeployment of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations and eur 80.2 million in payment appropriations: let us not forget that these funds come from the member states themselves! the strengthening of europol's european counter-terrorism centre, including the creation of 25 additional posts, which will cost €2 million in commitment and payment appropriations, will further prove the union's ineffectiveness in the fight against terrorism, as europol has, out of pure ideology, deliberately ignored the fact that terrorists can infiltrate via migration flows. a draft budgetary adjustment which will therefore prove both costly and unnecessary, since only the restoration of national borders and the sovereignty of the member states can bring an end to the migration crisis and an effective fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget is a new instrument for providing emergency aid within the european union. the text of the fernandes report aims to create emergency aid of eur 100 000 for refugees. it also reinforces the european counter-terrorism centre europol, which wants to completely dismantle borders and has downplayed the possibility of the islamic state using migrant flows to infiltrate terrorists. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to create a budgetary structure for the emergency assistance instrument to provide financial assistance more quickly to eu member states facing the current migration crisis, in particular by redeploying eur 100 million in commitment appropriations and eur 80.2 million in payment appropriations. the rapporteur also recommends strengthening europol's staff by creating 25 posts requiring an additional eur 2 million in commitment appropriations. it should be remembered, however, that these very expensive and inefficient instruments risk creating a false appeal to immigration. finally, it is absolutely absurd that the fight against terrorism should be entrusted to europol, since this body which promotes the total dismantling of national borders has underestimated the islamic state in its ability to use migration flows to infiltrate terrorists. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this draft amending budget for 2016 is to create the budgetary structure necessary for the proposed new instrument to provide emergency aid within the union. it also aims to strengthen the staffing of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol, to enable the agency to play a central role in the fight against terrorism within the union. the project provides for €100 million for humanitarian aid and €2 million for strengthening europol, which is expected to become the main centre for the fight against terrorism at european level. considering that the current security situation requires additional protection measures, i supported this draft amending budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which provides for a new instrument to provide emergency aid within the european union. following the recent terrorist attacks, it is essential that the european counter-terrorism centre within europol is fully operational and staffed in order to be able to combat terrorism effectively.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to provide assistance more quickly to eu countries facing the migrant crisis. the management of the emergency aid instrument would be entrusted to the european commission's humanitarian aid and civil protection service (echo). however, the needs are estimated at several hundred million euros a year. in addition, the reinforcement of the staff of europol's european counter-terrorism centre requires eur 2 million in commitment and payment appropriations. the fight against terrorism cannot be entrusted to a body (europol) which has underestimated the infiltration of migration flows by terrorists. because states must be free to decide their migration policy and taxpayers must not be asked to finance mass immigration, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: instruments that will prove to be totally ineffective, costly and even harmful by creating a huge air appeal for future migrants.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to establish instruments to provide emergency aid within the union. they will prove to be totally inefficient, costly and even harmful, creating a huge demand for air for future migrants. the only effective migration policy is to re-establish national borders to allow states to freely decide on their migration policy, as well as systematically to return migrants and to set up refugee centres in countries bordering war zones. as for the fight against terrorism, it cannot be entrusted to a body (europol) which has underestimated the fact that the islamic state could use migration flows to infiltrate terrorists and which promotes the total dismantling of national borders. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes on the draft amending budget for emergency aid within the union. the aim is to create a new chapter and two budget lines, which will be funded with eur 300 million in 2016, eur 200 million in 2017 and eur 200 million in 2018 to support member states most affected by the migration crisis. i voted in favour of this amending budget to reaffirm the union's support for the countries on the front line of the refugee crisis affecting europe. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on draft amending budget no 1/2016 of the eu to provide emergency aid within the union to relieve countries, such as greece, which are experiencing a massive influx of refugees and migrants. this will provide €100 million for emergency aid to refugees in the eu and €2 million to strengthen the european counter-terrorism centre (ectc) at europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on draft amending budget no 1/2016 on a new instrument to provide emergency aid within the union. the text provides for the creation of a budgetary structure for the emergency aid instrument to provide aid more quickly to eu countries facing migrant crises by redeploying eur 100 million in commitment appropriations and eur 80.2 million in payment appropriations. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the report also provides for a reinforcement of europol. the creation of 25 additional posts requires eur 2 million. needless to say, these instruments will prove to be completely inefficient, costly and even harmful, creating a huge air demand for future migration waves. the only effective migration policy is to re-establish national borders to allow states to freely decide on their migration policy, as well as systematically to return illegal migrants and to establish refugee centres in countries bordering war zones.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it aims to redeploy €100 million to manage migrants, and to strengthen europol which advocates the european pnr and the total dismantling of internal borders.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to establish a budgetary structure for the emergency aid instrument in the context of the migration crisis, so that member states can welcome migrants. the instrument will be endowed with eur 100 million and managed by the european commission's humanitarian aid and civil protection service (echo). it also intends to reinforce the staff of europol's european counter-terrorism centre, to provide operational and analytical assistance to the member states. this financial instrument will create a huge attraction for migrants. in addition, europol is an ineffective body, which has been of little use in the fight against terrorism, because it is unable to assess the real threat posed by the presence of terrorists among migrants. i am firmly against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this draft report proposes yet another supplementary budgetary envelope for migrants. it has two components:- the creation of an emergency fund that can be disbursed rapidly by member states faced with the migrant crisis. this fund would be created by redeploying €80.2 billion in payment appropriations. the management of this fund would be the responsibility of the european commission's humanitarian aid and civil protection service;- the strengthening of europol's counter-terrorism service by providing €2 million in payment appropriations. the national front is firmly opposed to any additional financial envelope for migration policies, except for the return of migrants to their countries of origin. in addition, any additional device would be likely to create an air appeal for other immigration applicants.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to adopt a first amending budget for the eu for 2016. this correction is already in place in april, whereas it was only in july 2015. the european budgetary uncertainty is therefore increasing as austerity gets worse. the question here is to find ways of dealing with the migrant crisis, the urgency of which was already evident when the budget was voted last november. these extensions are nothing but a formality: to finance the payment of actions in progress, the commission proposes to freeze commitment appropriations, which will therefore be lacking to launch other actions planned elsewhere. the argument to justify these budgetary manipulations confuses the need to deal with the migrant crisis and the fight against terrorism in europe to give europol new resources. we also learn, by the way, that the financial mechanisms of the eu-turkey agreement on migrants have no legal basis in the european budget. this shows that the billions promised to turkey do not exist: if they are ever paid, it will only be at the cost of new corrective budgets making cuts in other sectors. i am voting against this budgetary policy, which is becoming more and more disastrous every year.
in writing. ‒ the instrument envisaged has inefficient and costly elements. moreover, this arrangement, far from deterring mass immigration, will increase it by the unconditional protection it offers. i do not trust an organisation like europol to provide a relevant response to terrorism. i believe that the states are best placed to respond to the crises in europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report includes two main elements: the creation of an emergency aid budget structure to provide assistance more quickly to member states facing migrant crises, and the reinforcement of staff at europol's european counter-terrorism centre. these instruments will be expensive and inefficient, as well as creating a huge air demand for migrants. the only solution to the migration crisis is to restore national borders and to leave the states free to decide their migration policy. europol, for its part, underestimated the possibility that terrorists could use migration flows to infiltrate terrorists on european territory. it is therefore surprising that they want to give him more responsibility in the fight against terrorism. we are voting against this draft amending budget.
in writing. the fernandez report includes two main elements: the creation of a budgetary structure for the emergency aid instrument to provide aid more quickly to eu countries facing migrant crises through the redeployment of €100 million. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the second is the reinforcement of the staff of europol's european counter-terrorism centre by eur 2 million. it is not necessary to recall that these instruments will prove to be completely ineffective, costly and even harmful, creating a huge demand for air for future migrants. the only effective migration policy is to re-establish national borders to allow states to freely decide on their migration policy, as well as systematically to return migrants and to set up refugee centres in countries bordering war zones. as for the fight against terrorism, it cannot be entrusted to a body (europol) which has underestimated the fact that the islamic state could use migration flows to infiltrate terrorists and which promotes the total dismantling of national borders. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this budget report which proposes to give the european union additional means to manage the migration crisis and to strengthen our fight against terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
in writing. ‒ in order to support the eu countries most affected by the current migration situation in the european union, we decided to set up an amending budget by reallocating part of the multiannual financial framework. the draft thus adopted is based on two main lines: emergency aid and the provision of funds on the one hand, and the strengthening of the staff of the european centre for the fight against terrorism within europol on the other. given our priorities of regulating migration flows and strengthening controls and security on european territory, this resolution allows the introduction of a measure which i consider not only useful but above all necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this first eu amending budget for the financial year 2016, which provides for the creation of a permanent mechanism for emergency humanitarian aid in the eu. this measure will help to alleviate the refugee crisis in greece, the first country in the union to be affected by it. there was no previous mechanism for internal humanitarian aid within the union, unlike in third countries, and it was in the context of the current humanitarian emergency in the union that an allocation of eur 100 million in commitments and eur 80.2 million in payments was proposed. this amount, which is mainly intended for civil society working on the ground, will complement and support the member states' response to this crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes ineffective solutions: on the one hand, €100 million for yet another budgetary structure to deal with the migrant crisis, on the other hand, the strengthening of europol, which has nevertheless demonstrated its blindness in the fight against terrorism by underestimating the risk of infiltration of migrants by supporters of the so-called islamic state. the solution to these problems lies in the restoration of national sovereignty. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ in favour of adopting the draft amending budget as soon as possible, particularly to support member states on the front line of the refugee crisis, i supported the adoption of a new instrument to provide emergency aid within the union. this is to create a new chapter and two new budget lines, with €300 million in 2016 and €200 million in 2017 and 2018 to support the european countries most affected by the migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on draft amending budget no 1/2016. this amending budget is part of the context of the migration crisis currently affecting the european union: it is a question of creating a new chapter and two budget lines which will be supplemented by eur 300 million in 2016, eur 200 million in 2017 and eur 200 million in 2018 in order to support the eu countries most affected by the migration crisis. the first tranche of eur 100 million in commitments will be financed by redeployment of the asylum, migration and integration fund, in particular as the flexibility instrument has already been used in full for 2016. the aim is to enable this amending budget to be adopted quickly in order to support the countries of the union which are on the front line of the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently experiencing unprecedented crises, including a migration phenomenon linked to the influx of refugees fleeing war and persecution by daesh. as the closure of the borders of the balkan countries has created a deadlock for the refugees now stranded in greece, we had to act to support this country that is hosting refugees from syria. greece cannot and must not shoulder the burden of its geographical situation alone. we have therefore decided to allocate 100 million euros to an emergency mechanism to help the country to welcome the refugees that arrive. the crisis caused by terrorist attacks also leads us to take measures to ensure the safety of europeans. we have allocated an additional €2 million for the new european counter-terrorism centre, which will be able to increase its staff. if we have managed this time to redeploy money within the budget, the exceptional situation calls for exceptional resources. new funds will have to be found when the multiannual financial framework is revised: the response to new crises must not be financed at the expense of previous political priorities!
in writing. ‒ this text provides for two things: - the payment of a fund for the reception of migrants; - the strengthening of europol's staff. these instruments will prove to be completely inefficient, costly and even harmful, creating a huge demand for air for future migrants. the solution to counter terrorism is not to strengthen a police institution that has underestimated the islamic state and its infiltration capacity. the pragmatic solution is to regain control of our borders and to establish refugee camps (thanks to the €6 billion promised to turkey) in countries bordering the war zones. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - this vote was secret, i can't reveal my choice. i voted for the appointment of the members of the european court of auditors on the basis of three criteria: probity, independence from political forces and competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr jereb's candidacy for the court of auditors: his previous experience as an auditor, his current position as vice-president of the slovenian court of auditors and his love for his country reveal a distant profile from those eurocrats who give in to the sirens of free trade and federalism at the expense of the peoples of europe. let's hope he doesn't renege on his commitments.
in writing. ‒ this is the appointment (or renewal) of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on their appointment for an opinion. mr samo jereb is the current vice-president of the slovenian court of auditors. he was already a listener. he wanted to mention his time as a reserve officer (captain) in the slovenian army, which is positive, so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the six members of the court of auditors expires on 6 may 2016. the council shall adopt the list of members after consulting the european parliament. six candidates were proposed by the member states: one slovak, one latvian, one czech, one polish, one maltese and one slovenian. considering that the cont committee expressed doubts about three candidates and proposed a favourable opinion on three nominations (the latvian, czech and slovenian candidates), i voted in favour of the nomination of mr kozlovs, the latvian candidate, mr gregor, the czech candidate, and mr jereb, the slovenian candidate.
in writing. ‒ currently vice-president of the slovenian court of auditors. consistent prior course of auditing. rather patriotic, he was keen to mention his time as a reserve officer (captain) in the slovenian army. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bart staes on the appointment of mr samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors. the text approves the nomination proposed by the council after hearing the committee on budgetary control. having served as supreme auditor and vice-president of the court of auditors of the republic of slovenia, mr jereb is qualified for this post. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors aims to improve the eu's financial management and to encourage transparency. it checks that the budget of the european union has been correctly implemented and that eu funds have been collected and spent lawfully and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the selection procedure for the court of auditors has long been highly criticized for its lack of transparency and the lack of independence of the candidates, who generally lack the professional skills required for this post. the slovenian candidate, mr samo jereb, has no experience of budgetary discharge, which is one of the essential elements of this post, so i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors. samo jereb was heard by the committee on budgetary control. the members of this committee approved this nomination proposal by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ current vice-president of the slovenian court of auditors, samo jereb has a consistent background as an auditor. rather patriotic, he was keen to mention his time as a reserve officer (captain) in the slovenian army. i therefore vote in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ we have been asked to give our opinion on the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. - this vote was secret, i can't reveal my choice. i voted for the appointment of the members of the european court of auditors on the basis of three criteria: probity, independence from political forces and competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ his position as adviser to the latvian minister of finance, and later as adviser to the european bank for reconstruction and development, show mr kozlovs to be far removed from the responsibility of auditor of the european court of auditors. so i opposed his nomination.
in writing. ‒ this is the appointment (or renewal) of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for an opinion. mr kozlovs is currently an adviser to his country's finance minister and an adviser to the european bank for reconstruction and development. these positions seem to me to be quite different from the job of auditor of the european court of auditors. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the six members of the court of auditors expires on 6 may 2016. the council shall adopt the list of members after consulting the european parliament. six candidates were proposed by the member states: one slovak, one latvian, one czech, one polish, one maltese and one slovenian. considering that the cont committee expressed doubts about three candidates and proposed a favourable opinion on three nominations (the latvian, czech and slovenian candidates), i voted in favour of the nomination of mr kozlovs, the latvian candidate, mr gregor, the czech candidate, and mr jereb, the slovenian candidate.
in writing. ‒ adviser to his country's minister of finance, adviser to the european bank for reconstruction and development, quite a long way from the job of auditor of the european court of auditors. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague igor soltes on the appointment of mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors. the text approves the nomination proposed by the council after hearing the committee on budgetary control. with a solid background of more than 15 years in economic policy-making at european and national level, mr kozlovs is well qualified for this role. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors aims to improve the eu's financial management and to encourage transparency. it checks that the budget of the european union has been correctly implemented and that eu funds have been collected and spent lawfully and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the selection procedure for the court of auditors has long been highly criticized for its lack of transparency and the lack of independence of the candidates, who generally lack the professional skills required for this post. the latvian candidate, mihails kozlovs, was actively involved in the conclusion of the latest macro-financial assistance agreement for ukraine. i vote against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors. mihails kozlovs was heard by the committee on budgetary control. the members of this committee approved this nomination proposal by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ mr kozlovs, who has been an adviser to his country's finance minister and to the european bank for reconstruction and development, has a long history as an auditor at the european court of auditors. i therefore vote against his appointment.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to give our opinion on the appointment of an auditor for the european court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. - this vote was secret, i can't reveal my choice. i voted for the appointment of the members of the european court of auditors on the basis of three criteria: probity, independence from political forces and competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ a high-ranking official in his country's ministry of finance, a member of the eib's remuneration committee, and the vice-president of a local public bank, this czech with an apparatchik profile did not seem to me to be a good candidate.
in writing. ‒ this is the appointment (or renewal) of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for an opinion. mr jan gregor is currently a senior civil servant in the ministry of finance of the czech republic, a member of the eib's remuneration committee and a vice-president of a local public bank. it is a profile that reminds me of a career in the apparatchik and in doubt, i preferred to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the six members of the court of auditors expires on 6 may 2016. the council shall adopt the list of members after consulting the european parliament. six candidates were proposed by the member states: one slovak, one latvian, one czech, one polish, one maltese and one slovenian. considering that the cont committee expressed doubts about three candidates and proposed a favourable opinion on three nominations (the latvian, czech and slovenian candidates), i voted in favour of the nomination of mr kozlovs, the latvian candidate, mr gregor, the czech candidate, and mr jereb, the slovenian candidate.
in writing. ‒ senior civil servant in his country's ministry of finance, member of the eib's remuneration committee, vice-president of a local public bank. the profile of an apparatus. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague igor soltes on the appointment of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. the text approves the nomination proposed by the council after hearing the committee on budgetary control. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors aims to improve the eu's financial management and to encourage transparency. it checks that the budget of the european union has been correctly implemented and that eu funds have been collected and spent lawfully and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the selection procedure for the court of auditors has long been highly criticized for its lack of transparency and the lack of independence of the candidates, who generally do not have the professional skills required for this post. the czech candidate, mr jan gregor, is not a good example of the interplay between economic and political power. in the last five years he has held management positions in several large private companies and in public institutions (the development bank, the general medical insurance company, the remuneration committee of the european investment bank, etc.). i vote against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposed the appointment of jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. jan gregor was interviewed by the budget control committee. the members of this committee approved this nomination proposal by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ senior civil servant in his country's ministry of finance, member of the eib's remuneration committee, vice-president of a local public bank, his profile is more of an apparatchik. i vote against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to give our opinion on the appointment of an auditor for the european court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. - this vote was secret, i can't reveal my choice. i voted for the appointment of the members of the european court of auditors on the basis of three criteria: probity, independence from political forces and competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of this current member of the european court of auditors, former tax and customs officer and director of the slovak import/export bank, who is not inclined to give clear answers to legitimate questions.
in writing. ‒ this is the appointment (or renewal) of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for an opinion. mr ladislav balko is currently a member of the european court of auditors and a former tax and customs officer and director of the slovak import/export bank. at his hearing, he was apparently unwilling to answer clearly the questions already raised by the question of bail; despite his current status, he made a very bad impression. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the six members of the court of auditors expires on 6 may 2016. the council shall adopt the list of members after consulting the european parliament. six candidates were proposed by the member states: one slovak, one latvian, one czech, one polish, one maltese and one slovenian. considering that the cont committee expressed doubts about three candidates and proposed a favourable opinion on three nominations (the latvian, czech and slovenian candidates), i voted in favour of the nomination of mr kozlovs, the latvian candidate, mr gregor, the czech candidate, and mr jereb, the slovenian candidate.
in writing. ‒ current member of the european court of auditors, former tax and customs officer and director of the slovak import/export bank. unwilling to answer clearly the questions and already subject to caution, despite his current status, he made a very bad impression. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague igor soltes on the appointment of ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors. the slovak candidate does not, in my view, have the experience and skills required for the post.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors aims to improve the eu's financial management and to encourage transparency. it checks that the budget of the european union has been correctly implemented and that eu funds have been collected and spent lawfully and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the selection procedure for the court of auditors has long been highly criticized for its lack of transparency and the lack of independence of the candidates, who generally lack the professional skills required for this post. the slovak candidate, mr ladislav balko, had already been a member of the european court of auditors with poor results, so the committee rejected his nomination. i vote against it too.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which proposed the appointment of ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors. ladislav balko was heard by the committee on budgetary control. the members of the committee gave a negative opinion on the proposed appointment, considering that the candidate lacked the experience and the skills required for the post.
in writing. ‒ although he is now a member of the european court of auditors, a former tax and customs officer and a director of the slovak import/export bank, he was reluctant to answer questions clearly during the hearing. already on bail, despite his current status, so he made a very bad impression. i vote against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to give our opinion on the appointment of an auditor for the european court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of janusz wojciechowski in the context of the appointment of a member of the court of auditors. in fact, in the light of his cv, i consider that his experience is in line with that expected of a member of the court. the committee on budgetary control also criticised him for being eurosceptic. the role of the european court of auditors is precisely to be neutral. the question is not so much whether the candidate is pro-european or not, but whether his experience and background enable him to be objective and competent. janusz wojciechowski is the best candidate for me.
in writing. - this vote was secret, i can't reveal my choice. i voted for the appointment of the members of the european court of auditors on the basis of three criteria: probity, independence from political forces and competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ a pis mep since 2004, currently vice-president of the agriculture committee, former member of cont, his many talents and experience are in line with those expected of a member of the court. i therefore voted in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ this is the appointment (or renewal) of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for an opinion. mr wojciechowski has been a member of the european parliament since 2004, a member of the ecr group and the polish law and justice party. he is also the current vice-chair of the committee on agriculture and a former member of cont. his talents and experience are in line with those expected of a member of the court. moreover, his seriousness, which i have also seen in other posts such as the presidency of an intergroup in which i sit, makes me vote for him.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of janusz wojciechowski to the court of auditors. the experience and skills of this polish ecr member of parliament, who is currently vice-chairman of the committee on agriculture, seem to be in line with those expected of a member of the court.
in writing. ‒ the term of office of the six members of the court of auditors expires on 6 may 2016. the council shall adopt the list of members after consulting the european parliament. six candidates were proposed by the member states: one slovak, one latvian, one czech, one polish, one maltese and one slovenian. considering that the cont committee expressed doubts about three candidates and proposed a favourable opinion on three nominations (the latvian, czech and slovenian candidates), i voted in favour of the nomination of mr kozlovs, the latvian candidate, mr gregor, the czech candidate, and mr jereb, the slovenian candidate.
in writing. ‒ member of the european parliament since 2004 (ecr), currently vice-chair of the committee on agriculture, former member of cont. his talents and experience are in line with those expected of a member of the court. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague igor soltes on the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors because of doubts about his political independence.
in writing. ‒ the nomination of mr janusz wojciechowski for the court of auditors was not accepted, following a negative opinion from the committee on budgetary control. a member of the european parliament since 2004 (ecr), currently vice-president of the agriculture committee, and former member of the committee on budgetary control, mr wojciechowski nevertheless has the knowledge and experience expected of a member of the court of auditors. his candidacy was sabotaged simply because he is a member of a patriotic party and therefore considered to be eurosceptic. this is outrageous.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors aims to improve the eu's financial management and to encourage transparency. it checks that the budget of the european union has been correctly implemented and that eu funds have been collected and spent lawfully and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the court is composed of 28 members (one from each member state) appointed by the council, after consulting the parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the selection procedure for the court of auditors has long been highly criticized for its lack of transparency and the lack of independence of the candidates, who generally lack the professional skills required for this post. the polish candidate, janusz wojciechowski, currently an mep, sits with the most conservative members of the epp. i vote against his nomination.
in writing. - his experience and talent were convincing for the mission that awaited him. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which proposed the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. janusz wojciechowski was heard by the committee on budgetary control. the members of the committee gave a negative opinion on the nomination, expressing doubts as to the candidate's political independence.
in writing. ‒ a member of the european parliament since 2004 (ecr), currently vice-president of the agriculture committee, former member of cont, mr wojciechowski has the talents and experience expected of a member of the european court of auditors. i therefore vote in favour of his appointment to this post.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to give our opinion on the appointment of an auditor for the european court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
mr president, in parallel with this objection, i myself had proposed, on behalf of the enf group, an objection to the renewal of the authorization of glyphosate, an initiative which was not followed by the other groups, who preferred to present a joint text. however, we have seen today that there are great divisions within the political groups. i therefore maintain that the european commission has exceeded its powers in proposing to renew the authorization of glyphosate for several reasons. the scientific background and the study by the international cancer research centre urge us to be cautious of a product that is likely to cause cancer and is everywhere. this caution should be at the heart of the commission's thinking, as the european ombudsman reminded him. finally, it is not acceptable to postpone publication of the list of co-formulants which increase the toxicity of the product to an unknown date. commercial formulation and co-formulants are at the heart of all the concerns. the vote today, however, is so far from the spirit of the text and the whole point of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on the objection to the renewal of the glyphosate authorisation because i consider that the value of this objection is only symbolic. the text, as finally voted, advocates a seven-year authorisation of glyphosate and suggests very few restrictive provisions, whereas this product has been repeatedly identified as very dangerous, both for consumers and farmers. i therefore voted against this text, which, moreover, does not take account of the precautionary principle and does not oblige the commission to act on parliament's requests in this area.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the european parliament did not follow our committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which had called for a ban on glyphosate. the european right has succeeded in poisoning the european citizens for another seven years. glyphosate, which was declared a "probable carcinogen" by the world health organization (who) in march 2015, remains the world's best-selling herbicide. several european countries, including denmark, the netherlands, and sweden, have decided to ban or restrict its use because of its possible effects, ranging from birth defects to autism to kidney problems. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, rail and inland waterway. the urgent need in the very short term is to help producers using glyphosate by offering them alternative solutions. this requires support based both on the use of the least dangerous products and, above all, on the development of bio-controls and a gradual change in production models.
in writing. ‒ meps from the national front had tabled an objection to the european commission's authorisation of the renewal of glyphosate, an active substance considered carcinogenic by the who and found in high concentrations in food. glyphosate is the basis of a herbicide that is widespread in france and widely used. i maintained my position by opposing the new text of the objection proposed in strasbourg. the house also welcomed the commission's proposal to limit the use of the product to professionals, such as farmers. nevertheless, the renewal period of 7 years finally decided upon does not encourage the chemical industries to look for alternatives, while the health of our farmers and consumers is at stake! i would have liked to have voted for an immediate ban on this substance, but the crisis in our agriculture is serious enough not to put further pressure on french farmers. however, the original text has been profoundly altered, and we have to object to this objection, which has been distorted from its original meaning.
in writing. ‒ because of the lingering concerns about the carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting properties of glyphosate, i voted to reduce the duration of use to 7 years, instead of the 15 initially proposed, and for professional use only. this timeframe is to allow the executive to launch an independent study on the overall toxicity and classification of glyphosate and to clarify the hazardous nature of the substance. nevertheless, the european union must stop legislating chemical molecule by chemical molecule and would be more effective in acting globally on harmful substances through a single regulation. this approach would have the benefit of increasing the understanding of standards and adaptation of users of these substances. finally, it is necessary to ensure that the application of these standards is the same throughout europe and that it does not encourage technological dumping between eu member states.
in writing. ‒ in the name of the precautionary principle with regard to a product that the international agency for research on cancer has described as carcinogenic, i support the objection to the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate. the arguments put forward by the scientific community such as the german heinrich böll foundation which this year established a high exposure of the most vulnerable groups to glyphosate show that the commission, by authorising this antibiotic substance while the fight against the widespread use of antibiotics is a recurring topic in european regulation, has exceeded its areas of competence, which legitimises this objection.
in writing. ‒ many of our colleagues, before voting on this resolution, were probably unaware, before the subject was put on the agenda, that glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide absorbed by leaves and having a widespread action, formerly produced under a patent, this patent, we were told, having fallen into the public domain in 2000. but that wasn't the point. in the debate in this house on whether or not the commission should renew the approval of the substance, two opposing arguments were put forward, one guided by the precautionary principle and advocating non-approval, while the other believes that the scientific studies carried out on the harmfulness of the product are sufficient to allow its dissemination. i am not an expert on the subject myself, so i took the precautionary approach and voted against the approval, even if i had to reconsider my position if further conclusive studies were to show that this caution was not necessary.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this text which, although originally objecting to the renewal of the approval of glyphosate, has in the end led to its authorisation for a period of 7 years, and only suggests some restrictive provisions. it did not, for example, ban the use of glyphosate in public parks and gardens. i would remind you that the international agency for research on cancer has previously described glyphosate as a 'probable carcinogen', a caution which the european food safety authority does not share. the risks associated with glyphosate are well established, particularly in its commercial formulations. given the divergent views on this issue between iarc and efsa on the subject, the doubt persists and calls for the precautionary principle to be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate because i consider that the value of this objection is purely symbolic. the text, as finally voted, advocates an authorisation of glyphosate for seven years and suggests very few provisions to restrict this product on the market, despite the fact that it has been repeatedly identified as very dangerous both for consumers and for farmers. i therefore voted against this text, which does not take account of the precautionary principle and does not oblige the commission to act on parliament's requests.
in writing. ‒ in this motion for a resolution, a left-wing majority wanted to object to the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate. i do not think that the commission has any right to interfere in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. in addition, without a technically and economically viable alternative, this decision would have a counterproductive impact in terms of health and environmental safety. i therefore welcome the adoption of the amendments which we tabled with my colleagues from the epp group, in order to preserve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector while guaranteeing a high level of health security. we propose to reduce the duration of authorisation from 15 to 7 years, to take account of the lack of consensus among scientists, but also the time needed for agricultural professionals to adapt to possible regulatory changes. we also call for stricter controls on the use of glyphosate, limiting it to professionals, strengthening farmers' training and banning its use before harvest. finally, we must be able to revise the authorisation at any time if new scientific evidence justifies the product being banned. in view of these facts, i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ a debate has arisen on the carcinogenicity of glyphosate, a weedkiller, following the conclusions of the european food safety authority and the international centre for cancer research. glyphosate is used by many european farmers, there is no economically viable alternative that guarantees human health. the concerns of the citizens must be heard. i therefore proposed amendments on behalf of the epp group, limiting and framing the marketing authorisation: 7 years instead of 15 (proposed by the commission), an authorisation which will have to be reviewed in the light of the analyses of the european chemicals agency by the end of 2017; the certification system for professionals; limitation and/or prohibition for non-professionals; accelerating the work of the commission and the member states on the list of co-formulants to be banned; enhancing research and innovation towards alternatives to glyphosate. these essential points having been adopted by my colleagues, i voted for the resolution. it was important to have a pragmatic rather than a political approach to this issue in order to propose a solution to the current deadlock between the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ better known as round up, the herbicide glyphosate should soon be banned in europe, with the responsibility for the research sector, in conjunction with the agricultural world, to find environmentally friendly substitute products and methods and to accelerate conversions. the european commission intended to extend the authorisation for 15 years. the majority of meps voted in favour of a shorter extension, to seven years. i think that's half a success. i encourage those in the agricultural sector who are still using glyphosate to switch as soon as possible to other non-toxic active substances for the benefit of their own health and that of all citizens.
in writing. glyphosate is a controversial substance that is probably carcinogenic to humans. the health risks associated with the use of this herbicide arise from the fact that glyphosate residues are present in the environment and in many everyday consumer products and are not metabolised by humans. in the name of consumer health protection, i strongly oppose the renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate. the original resolution was amended by an amendment calling for a seven-year transitional period, which i voted against. i voted in favour of this resolution, however, because it was important to me that parliament should object and ask the commission to revise its original proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it aims to set stricter limits on the marketing of glyphosate, a product used in many herbicides, including monsanto's famous round-up. in view of the controversy surrounding glyphosate, we have asked the commission to renew its authorization for a period of seven years only, instead of the fifteen originally proposed, and for professional purposes only. in the absence of viable alternatives today, a ban on the product outright would have had a devastating impact on farmers for whom it is very useful. the text therefore also stresses the urgency of funding research to find viable, effective and safe alternative substances quickly.
in writing. present in 750 herbicides and detected in 44% of citizens, glyphosate is everywhere, even though it has been classified as "probably carcinogenic" by the who. however, it is in this context that the european commission has decided to renew the authorisation of glyphosate for the next 15 years. once again, this is a case managed in a totally opaque way by the commission: it is impossible to know the composition of the committee of experts or even to have access to the working documents, while the efsa shows a flagrant lack of independence. this is unacceptable when the health of europeans is at stake. that is why my group and i tabled a resolution objecting to the commission's implementing act. in the plenary, amendments changed the resolution's direction and i voted against the authorisation for 7 years because an immediate ban is necessary. seven years, even to put in place a transition, is far too long. however, i voted for the final resolution because its main purpose is to send a message to the european commission and the member states to advocate alternative solutions which are respectful of public health.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to approve the european parliament's resolution on the objection to glyphosate, which seems to me to be sufficiently cautious in view of the divergent scientific studies on the harmfulness of this weedkiller and the absence of an economically viable alternative that is safe for human health. i am aware of the concerns of the public and that is why my colleague angélique delahaye, herself a farmer, has proposed many solutions such as limiting or even banning sales to non-professionals, training professionals, limiting use before harvest, extending the authorisation to 7 years and strengthening research to find other alternatives. those who advocate an immediate ban must understand the folly of such a decision. farmers who are already crushed by the agricultural crisis would not recover from the ban on this product essential to their activity. the ban on glyphosate is a stone in the grave for farmers. if we wanted to kill the already overburdened french agriculture, we could not do better. it is true that we will always have imported products of which we do not know the composition to feed ourselves!
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to postpone publication of the list of prohibited adjuvants to an indefinite future date. at the same time, the commission manages to be in a hurry and to remain evasive in its regulatory intentions. this paradox is also contrary to the precautionary principle with regard to the health of consumers and farmers. transparency remains an essential element in the regulation and management of agricultural practices and the use of plant protection products. the fn elected representatives, on the other hand, asked for the financing of alternative solutions for agriculture. that is why i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues pavel poc, kateřina konečná, bas eickhout, piernicola pedicini, mark demesmaeker, sirpa pietikäinen, frédérique ries on the objection under article 106 of the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate. many farmers in europe use glyphosate as the basic chemical for weed control. unfortunately, at present, no economically viable and safe alternative to human health can be offered to farmers. the use of this product must be controlled: limiting its reuse, limiting or even banning its sale to private individuals, training professionals and limiting the use of this substance before harvest. at the same time, it is imperative to develop a list of co-formulants to be banned and to strengthen research and innovation in this sector in order to find viable alternatives. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final resolution on the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate. the report of the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded that the substance did not present a carcinogenic risk to humans. the extension of this authorization will not prevent the imposition of strict rules on the control of these substances. furthermore, a ban on glyphosate would be a severe blow to farmers who use it because there is no alternative at this time. the seven-year period will thus make it possible to find a way out of the situation which takes account of the challenges facing agriculture, but also of the defence of citizens and the environment.
in writing. ‒ like a majority of my colleagues, i voted against the objection concerning the renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate, a total herbicide used particularly in agriculture, because of the many reservations and doubts expressed in this objection about the possible carcinogenic nature of this product. we finally voted for a renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for 7 years only instead of the 15 years proposed by the european commission and for the restriction of the use of glyphosate to professionals only. we have therefore supported the european commission's request to glyphosate manufacturers to publish additional technical data to accurately determine whether or not the substance may be carcinogenic to humans.
in writing. ‒ this vote validates the re-authorisation of glyphosate pesticides despite their proven health risks. the extension of the authorisation for 7 years of this pesticide perfectly sums up the doubts about the impartiality of efsa, the european body responsible for analysing the health risks of products placed on the market. while the who considers this pesticide, produced by the monsanto company, to be carcinogenic and there are serious doubts about its role as an endocrine disruptor (i.e. it affects the hormonal composition of our body), efsa renews its authorization! the decision of the parliament is unusual in that, while recognising these risks, it validates the re-authorisation by limiting it to 7 years instead of the 15 proposed by the commission, and only to professionals. moreover, the restriction of the use of this pesticide by numerous bans (banned in playgrounds, public parks, before harvests) sounds like an admission of guilt, of which no consequences are drawn. how do you tell the difference between a professional and a private person? how can we ensure that the use of this pesticide complies with all these restrictions? parliament would have been much better off refusing this authorization as i did and as its committee on the environment was advocating.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the active substance glyphosate. the international agency for research on cancer has described glyphosate as a "probable carcinogen", a caution not shared by efsa, the european food safety authority. the risks of glyphosate are established in particular in its commercial formulations, the toxicity of which is increased by the presence of co-formulants. glyphosate is also considered an antibiotic, and a patent has even been filed for such a use. the fight against antibiotic resistance and the widespread use of antibiotics is a recurring theme in european legislation. amendments nos 32, 35 and 20 were important. they proposed not to approve the authorisation for non-professional uses, and not to approve the use of the product just before harvesting. amendment 20 was based on the precautionary principle. as amendment no 32 has just been adopted, i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it too easily accepts the use of glyphosate just before the harvest. but it is a toxic substance that is then present in food. the amendment by the enl group, which sought to recall the existence of conflicts of interest within the bodies producing studies on the subject, was unfortunately rejected.
in writing. ‒ the herbicide glyphosate has been used for over 30 years. marketed as round up, it was declared a "probable carcinogen" by the world health organization in march 2015. it is the world's best-selling herbicide. this dangerous substance, which is present in more than 750 herbicides, was recently detected in 44% of european citizens who had never been in direct contact with the herbicide. so we consume this herbicide every day, without knowing it and especially without wanting it. to our surprise, the european food safety authority (efsa) has deemed the carcinogenic risk of glyphosate "unlikely" and the european commission recently recommended the renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate for 15 years, until 2031. the resolution initially called on the european commission not to renew the marketing authorisation for glyphosate. unfortunately, an amendment tabled by the european right was approved by a small majority, and it calls for a renewal of the marketing authorization for this product for 7 years. in the interest of public health, i vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the national front is calling for caution with glyphosate, which is widely used in agriculture. this product has been the subject of warnings from the european food safety authority ('efsa'). it is a carcinogen and, because of its antibiotic nature, it is a promoter of antibiotic resistance. the europe of nations and freedoms group considers that the commission has exceeded its powers by renewing this authorization, which is also contrary to the precautionary principle. however, it is important not to rush into a ban and to do everything possible to ensure that farmers using glyphosate can find an alternative solution.
in writing. ‒ declared probable carcinogen by the world health organization (who) in march 2015, glyphosate remains the world's best-selling herbicide. this dangerous product is present in more than 750 herbicides and was recently detected in 44% of european citizens who have never been in direct contact with the herbicide: it is simple, a good part of our food chain is contaminated. despite this, the european food safety authority (efsa) has found the carcinogenic risk of glyphosate to be "unlikely". but the studies used by the commission are "at best" sponsored by the agrochemical industry, and at worst written by the industry. in the face of this risk, it is our responsibility to apply the precautionary principle and to withdraw dangerous molecules from the market. the urgent need in the very short term is to help producers using glyphosate by offering them alternative solutions. this requires support based both on the use of the least dangerous products and, above all, on the development of bio-controls and a gradual change in production models. i therefore voted against the text to the commission to re-introduce glyphosate on the market for 7 years.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a systemic, non-selective herbicide that destroys all plants. it is now the most widely produced herbicide in the world, with its use increasing 260 times in the last 40 years from 3 200 tonnes in 1974 to 825 000 tonnes in 2014. as a result of this widespread use, "glyphosate and/or its residues have been found in water, soil, food, non-food products and the human body (including urine and breast milk)". in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) classified glyphosate as a "probable human carcinogen" (group 2a). but in november 2015, the european food safety authority (efsa) stated that it is unlikely that this substance poses a carcinogenic threat to humans. strangely, efsa has always refused to make these studies public, on the grounds that their publication would be detrimental to commercial interests. the resolution called for the publication of these studies and for the authorisation of glyphosate not to be renewed. unfortunately, the right wing's intrigue has led to the passage of an amendment allowing glyphosate for another seven years. in these circumstances i shall vote against.
in writing. ‒ according to the international cancer research centre, the product is "probably carcinogenic". the commission has been very evasive about its regulatory intentions on the subject, whereas the fight against antibiotic resistance is a very recurrent point in european regulation. we are in favour of financing alternative solutions for agriculture. there is no such thing as a "right now". i think we should not be too radical in our position. in addition, the original meaning of the text has been distorted. in the final analysis, while i am in favour of a ban on glyphosate for private individuals, i believe that it would be wrong to deprive farmers in difficulty of it until the necessary solutions are found. i therefore voted against the objection to glyphosate.
in writing. ‒ this objection to the renewal of the approval of glyphosate originally called for its use to be stopped on european territory. glyphosate is a total herbicide produced exclusively by monsanto under the roundup brand and entered the public domain in 2000. it is considered "probably carcinogenic" by the national cancer research center, and its toxic effects are increased by the presence of co-formulants in commercial formulations that contain it. the objection was also based on the fact that glyphosate is considered an antibiotic and that the european union was fighting against the widespread use of antibiotics in the fight against antibiotic resistance. the objection also raised the point that the commission had exceeded its field of competence and that it should respect the precautionary principle, a recommendation also made by the european ombudsman. all this is contrary to the precautionary principle with regard to the health of consumers and farmers, and transparency must remain an essential element in the use of plant protection products. we supported the original text of the objection. however, since the amendments adopted in plenary reversed the direction of the request for objection, we are voting against the final text.
in writing. while the un international cancer research centre (composed of some of the world's most renowned experts, whose independence is guaranteed) had given an unfavourable opinion on glyphosate (considered to be probably carcinogenic), efsa (a european agency whose impartiality is relative and whose opinion is based only on studies carried out by industry) decided to give the substance in question the benefit of the doubt. scientific studies show that glyphosate, which is part of monsanto's roundup, leads to an increase in rare cancers in male rats exposed, thus eliminating the random bias. the meta-studies conducted all conclude, however, that the molecule is dangerous. considering that this report is aimed at not renewing the authorisation of glyphosate and concerned about the precautionary principle, i decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the commission's renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate. glyphosate is a widely used agricultural herbicide, for which there is currently no economically viable and human health-safe substitute. research into the possible impact of glyphosate on our environment must continue. that is why the resolution we voted, balanced by amendments tabled by my group, calls on the commission to renew the authorization of glyphosate for 7 years instead of 15, while stressing that it is possible at any time to 'withdraw the approval of an active substance during the period for which it is authorized if it no longer meets the approval criteria'.
in writing. ‒ the glyphosate resolution has been largely amended to meet both the expectations of citizens and the needs of our agricultural sector. many farmers and winemakers now use glyphosate, particularly as a weed killer. the absence of an economically viable alternative that is safe for human health requires us to be a force for proposal in order to achieve a safer framework for the use of glyphosate. it is important to recall that the procedure for the approval of substances laid down by parliament has been respected, and that the authorization of the use of glyphosate is supervised and monitored. if new information in the future sheds new light on the use of glyphosate and its consequences, the european commission may reverse its authorisation. i would like to commend the excellent work of my colleague, mrs angélique delahaye, who has, among other things, reduced the authorisation of glyphosate to a maximum of seven years and improved the control of its use by encouraging the commission and the member states to provide a list of co-formulants to be banned. although it has no legal effect as an implementing act, this resolution is part of the search for safer use of glyphosate. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted against the parliament's resolution validating the renewal of the marketing authorisation for glyphosate, an active substance in herbicides (such as roundup) which is dangerous to the environment and human health. this european parliament resolution is shocking because it completely ignores the opinion of the scientific community and the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), which evaluated the substance in march 2015 and classified it as a "probable human carcinogen". the precautionary principle, enshrined in the european treaties, should oblige us to be cautious about the use of such substances, and i regret that this vote by the european parliament is supporting the position of the industrial lobbies, which profit from its commercialisation to the detriment of the health of farmers and european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the international agency for research on cancer has described glyphosate as a 'probable carcinogen', a caution not shared by efsa, the european food safety authority. the risks of glyphosate are established in particular in its commercial formulations, the toxicity of which is increased by the presence of co-formulants. glyphosate is also considered an antibiotic and a patent has even been filed for such a use. the fight against antibiotic resistance and the widespread use of antibiotics is a recurring theme in european legislation. the european commission has proposed to postpone publication of the list of prohibited adjuvants to an indefinite future date. at the same time, it manages to be in a hurry and to remain evasive in its regulatory intentions. this paradox is also contrary to the precautionary principle with regard to the health of consumers and farmers. transparency remains an essential element in the regulation and management of agricultural practices and the use of plant protection products. i am asking instead for funding for alternative solutions for agriculture. unfortunately, the amendments i supported were not accepted by the other members. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the issue of renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate has been the subject of much debate. on the one hand, legitimate concerns have led to the discovery of glyphosate's carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting properties. on the other hand, it is clear that many european farmers use glyphosate, a herbicide commonly used in large crops, viticulture and arboriculture. there is currently no economically viable and safe alternative for farmers to offer. for these reasons, i have called on the european commission to renew its marketing authorization for a period of seven years only, instead of the fifteen years originally proposed, and only for professional purposes. an independent study and publication of the scientific evidence used by the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess glyphosate should therefore be carried out.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution opposing the commission's proposal for a 15-year renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate and asking it to table a new text, based on a much shorter authorisation period. there are real uncertainties about this product, including its effects on human and animal health and the environment. our public opinion is worried. member states have different opinions. so did the scientists. in the face of doubts as to whether or not this substance is carcinogenic, it was essential that the commission should review its copy. it cannot just sit back and propose a new 15-year-old glyphosate permit! i would have preferred a shorter period, 2 years or 5 years maximum. but i supported parliament's position first because 7 years is already better than 15 and we exclude non-professional uses; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the report by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), the agency of the world health organisation (who), considers glyphosate to be a 'probable carcinogen for humans and animals'. so, in addition to being an environmental problem, the renewal of this substance is also a real public health problem. while the united states has taken the decision to ban this endocrine disruptor, applying the precautionary principle, it is incomprehensible that the european union has not done the same. on 22 march, the european parliament's environment committee adopted a resolution to prevent the european commission from renewing the authorisation for the use and sale of the herbicide. the objection to the european commission, which was put to the vote in plenary, was voted down but under pressure from the lobbies, the right-wing groups chose to reintroduce a seven-year authorisation, less than the 15 years envisaged by the commission, but too long in the eyes of the victims of this poison.
in writing. ‒ the european commission was planning to renew for 15 years the authorisation of glyphosate, the active substance in the world's best-selling herbicide, roundup, marketed by monsanto. glyphosate: a substance that the world health organisation considers to be 'probably carcinogenic' and 'probably endocrine disrupting'. the environment and public health committee of the european parliament has spoken out categorically against the renewal of this authorization. the text before us should therefore have been able to accept this non-renewal. however, if it is a motion to reject this proposal that has been tabled, it is somewhat curious to see that it is a motion to reject the 15 year renewal for a 7 year renewal on the pretext that, under rather obscure conditions, the european food safety authority would have given a favourable opinion on this renewal. i am concerned about the health of european citizens and i voted against this text without hesitation. the european parliament had an opportunity to oppose a commission proposal, but it refused to do so with a somewhat surprising vote of 374 for, 225 against and 102 abstentions, including a large majority of european greens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to better defend the values of the european union, stabilise europe's neighbourhood, strengthen global multilateral governance and improve interaction between the union, national parliaments and european citizens.
in writing. ‒ a report that perfectly illustrates the politics of good feelings (hell is paved with them), of violation of sovereignty and submission to nato. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of a strong europe on the international scene and the establishment of a common defence policy, and i voted in favour of this report. the european union must improve its strategic autonomy in defence matters, in order to be able to defend and protect its citizens against civilian and military threats and risks. i am also working towards a federal europe because i believe that the european union is meant to be a constructive and strong global actor, a 'decision-maker' that sets effective rules for global multilateral governance.
in writing. - ideological imperialism of 'human rights', submission to nato, etc.: i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report mentions that the eu's overall strategy on foreign and security policy issues should ' pave the way for strong political ambition for the eu as an international actor'. the report actually advocates ever greater submission to nato and undermines the sovereignty of states. the eu should strengthen its partnership with nato, strengthen the role of the european defence agency (eda) and increase its resources, or launch an eu-funded defence research and technological development programme under the next multiannual financial framework (mff). the report also calls for a 'long-term strategy on asylum, migration and readmission policies' which would involve strengthening schengen. the report also calls for the eu to develop synergies between security, development, trade, human rights, the promotion of democracy and the eu's external action, thus making the eu increasingly involved in internal policies under the cover of human rights. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union must have a security strategy adapted to the developments in the world in recent years. the threats we face today come from both state and non-state actors, and this is profoundly disrupting the functioning of our security arsenal. the european union must be able to respond to the various challenges posed by the new world order. common responses to security issues are needed. we see that isolated reactions are not enough. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a comprehensive approach to security while preserving the fundamental values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is the european parliament's contribution to the new overall eu security strategy that the high representative was asked by the european council to develop last summer. the report aims to defend european states, societies and values and to stabilise europe's wider neighbourhood. considering that the european union's influence on the international scene is a prerequisite for its security, i supported this report.
in writing. this report represents the european parliament's contribution to the 'eu global strategy on foreign and security policy' which the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is due to submit to the council in june 2016. this report takes into account the need for greater cooperation with regional actors, in particular on defence research, in order to address global threats, while respecting the union's fundamental principles and interests. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the political situation in much of the european union's neighbourhood is deeply unstable. the wars in libya and syria have already lasted five years, and the conflict in ukraine is stalled. the eu must therefore have a comprehensive strategy to meet these challenges. the eu and its member states must take greater responsibility for their own security, improve their intelligence cooperation, pool their defence efforts.
in writing. ‒ insofar as this text defends an ideological vision of human rights, does not respect the sovereignty of nations, aims to strengthen the european union's submission to nato and global governance and advocates a europeanisation of defence, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that europe must finally speak with one voice on the international scene, facing global challenges and acting in a world environment that is constantly changing (terrorism, the migrant crisis, political instability in the mediterranean region, etc.). the european union can only be a credible actor on the international scene if it gains autonomy, in particular by developing its presence and influence within international organisations. the union's foreign policy priority must be to stabilise and secure its immediate neighbourhood and external borders.
in writing. ‒ this report once again perfectly highlights the policy of violating national sovereignty and subjecting the european union to nato. i was not surprised to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sandra kalniete on the european union in a changing global environment. the report stresses the importance of defending european values, strengthening the security of its citizens and ensuring the integrity of its territory. it is also about securing europe's neighbourhood by strengthening cooperation with regional actors against global threats. i support this legislative proposal which will enable the union to defend its fundamental interests by consolidating its strategic autonomy in terms of defence capabilities in complementarity with nato. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this text is the european parliament's contribution to the new overall eu security strategy that the high representative was asked by the european council to develop last summer. this new strategy seeks to respond to the changing and uncertain regional security environment, to provide the european union with greater resilience and to stabilise our immediate neighbourhood. a number of other proposals concerning the union's representation in the world, its role in a multipolar world and the values to be defended in the world are aimed at strengthening the union's primary objective: ensuring the security of its citizens and its territory. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'the european union in a changing global environment - a more connected, more contested and more complex world'. this report interferes with the internal affairs of the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. he called for a strengthening of the eu-nato axis. it aims to make the european union a global player in the service of global governance. this is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it overemphasises the 'right of humanity'. it is also wrong to call for the europeanisation of defence while increasingly giving the eu a stronger hand over to nato. but the defense must remain national. france's sovereignty depends on it.
in writing. ‒ following the attacks of 13 november, françois hollande, hoping to win the support of other states for his wars in mali and syria, has reopened the debate on a common defence. the german minister schäuble hastened to open pandora's box. the european parliament and the commission are seizing this opportunity to advance step by step the idea of a european army allied to nato. starting with the increase in the budget and the powers of the european defence agency. a "research firm" that alone decides on conflict scenarios and strategies to be implemented to do so. the report seeks to develop this transfer of competence even though defence is a competence described by the treaties as being exclusively for the states. the background is overwhelming: 'the united states is the union's main strategic partner', energy is a nuisance to russia, migrants are terrorists and the un is just an analytical body. france has a master card. it alone has the expertise, staff and facilities to initiate a new foreign policy in europe. in the meantime, i oppose any army that serves this policy of tension.
in writing. ‒ the idea of this report stems from western imperialism. it is about imposing our style of democracy on nations in the name of human rights. the report's tremendous willingness to interfere is matched by a submission to atlanticism through the strengthening of the eu-nato link. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. this report with its boisterous title aims at nothing less than paving the way for a strong political ambition for the eu as an international actor, and to increase its security and defence competences at the expense of the member states (nationalization of losses, europeanization of profits) in the face of the deterioration of its immediate strategic environment . but should the eu be reminded that it has thrown oil on the fire of its immediate environment, if not itself, to serve interests foreign to its member states? who is creating a huge air appeal by encouraging migrants to come and settle in europe, making the situation worse? the europe of defence, the old sea serpent that has been crawling since the 1950s, is another europeanist whim. what would a european army have done in the iraq war, when 90% of the member states were in favour of intervention? i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the reference in this report to a common defence policy which will eventually lead to a common european defence is not acceptable. in a european union which must be a europe of nations, which respects the national sovereignty of each member state, defence policy must remain a national competence. that is why i abstained on the occasion of the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the kalniete report. the report is divided into four main parts: defending europe's states, societies and values; the union's first objective is to ensure the security of its citizens and its territory, while preserving its values and its model of society and defending its fundamental interests; stabilising europe's wider neighbourhood the union must assume its responsibilities by closing the security gap in its neighbourhood and in the neighbourhood of our neighbours and by respecting its enlargement commitments; become a more present actor in a multipolar world the union should aim to become a 'decision-maker' that sets effective rules for global multilateral governance, which requires strengthening cooperation with regional actors on global threats, maintaining a comprehensive approach to foreign policy (building synergies between different 'external policies'), but also building on the union's fundamental principles and interests; interact with the union, national parliaments and european citizens; parliament called for the introduction of a review clause (every five years) and stressed the importance of the european parliament and national parliaments, which should ensure joint control.
in writing. ‒ the attacks in brussels on 22 march have once again demonstrated the importance of further developing european security. the adoption of the pnr is another step in the right direction. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and common security policy is responsible for the conduct of european security policy, but the european parliament has a role to play. as such, i voted in favour of this report which sets out parliament's contribution to the high representative's strategy on security. we thus make the defence of the union's states, societies and values our priority, together with the stabilisation of the union's neighbourhood and the strengthening of the union's presence in a multipolar world. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union defence and security policy, and calls for better interaction between the european parliament, on the one hand, and national parliaments and european citizens, on the other.
in writing. following the adoption by the eu of a european security strategy, which identifies a series of threats to the union's security interests, this report endorses the strengthening of security measures and proposes the strengthening of the union's defence capabilities. despite some positive elements on the defence of human rights and the union's values, the report supports an advanced militarisation of europe, with increases in member states' military budgets, to the detriment of other policies, and considers, among other things, that the usa is the eu's main strategic partner, all reasons which justified my vote against this report.
in writing. the report takes the pretext of the current developments in the world, the tensions and crises that are taking place there, to call, surprisingly, for the construction of a federal europe whose defence policy and diplomacy would be entirely subordinated to nato. i, for my part, am in favour of a free and sovereign france, determined to defend the interests of the french people against any outside power. i am therefore clearly not in a position to support a text which is so ideologically harmful and obsolete, and which is not at all up to the challenges of the contemporary world. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this contribution by the european parliament to the new eu comprehensive security strategy, led by federica mogherini, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. in the field of defence, we call on the eu to strengthen its autonomy, complementing nato's fields of action. stabilising europe's wider neighbourhood must also be a priority. the european union and its member states must also be made more present in a multipolar world marked by constant threats. finally, interaction at all levels (the union, national parliaments and citizens) will be the condition for the success of this new global strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is the european parliament's contribution to the review of the eu's global strategy on foreign and security policy to be presented by the high representative in june. it is crucial that the union identifies and affirms its strategic interests on the international stage. the union's priority must be to stabilise crises in its neighbourhood. the union must be more involved in its neighbourhood to ensure its security. as such, i supported this text which calls for the union and the member states to improve their defence capabilities and to devote at least 2% of gdp to defence spending by 2024. it is essential that the union should have greater strategic autonomy and develop a genuine european intelligence capacity. it is necessary to recall that the union has set itself the objective of being the world leader in multilateral governance and in respecting and promoting international law. it must continue to promote effective multilateralism based on the rule of law. in view of the rapidly changing challenges facing the union, the text calls for the strategy to be reviewed every five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report: foreign policy is a competence of the states. the eu does not need to add to the confusion in an already unstable area such as central asia.
in writing. ‒ by arrogating to itself the prerogative of the member states to conduct foreign policy, the eu has shown that it is a subversive and destabilising force, as has been shown by the various developments in its 'eastern partnership' ... which is essentially directed against the russian federation. the eu therefore has no need to add to the confusion in such a fragile area as central asia.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia. i opposed this report because foreign policy must remain a matter for the states. the eu is generally a force for subversion and destabilisation as the various developments in the eastern partnership have shown. it adds to the confusion in an already fragile area. the eu in this report uses every opportunity to legitimize itself. it uses the ecological alibi to legitimize its international role, for example, or it boasts of its enhanced cooperation programme, which amounts to giving money in return for adopting the european vision of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the countries of central asia are of considerable strategic importance to the european union. a review of the union's strategy towards the region is necessary to strengthen bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries that make up the region. it is important to develop action plans adapted to the specificities of each partner, given the differences between these countries. it is also very important to strengthen the promotion of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in the region. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report underlines the strategic, economic and political interest that the union sees in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries of central asia. it emphasises the importance of regional cooperation in achieving long-term sustainable results and advocates the strengthening of democracy, human rights and good governance. considering central asia to be a key economic and political partner for the european union, i supported this report.
in writing. the report on the implementation and review of the european union strategy for central asia stresses the importance of maintaining close relations with central asia and strengthening regional cooperation. i supported this report because i believe that it is essential to strengthen cooperation between the european union and central asia in order to face the current challenges such as the threat of the islamic state, drug trafficking, human trafficking, violent extremism and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this text introduces confusion in a context where central asia is a fragile area, plagued by regular destabilisation. as long as foreign policy remains a prerogative of the states, i voted against this text which allows the eu to overstep its responsibilities and to undermine the balance in this part of the world.
in writing. ‒ considering that foreign policy is a competence of states, the eu does not need to add to the confusion in an already unstable area such as central asia. i am against the spirit of this text and therefore obviously voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tamás meszerics on the implementation and revision of the eu strategy for central asia. the report highlights the strategic, economic and political interests of the union in strengthening its relations with its partners in central asia. the promotion and strengthening of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance are all aspects that this report emphasises. the resolution also stresses the growing importance of trade and energy relations with central asia. i therefore support this proposal, which stresses that partnership and cooperation agreements represent a real boost to economic cooperation, enabling the region to modernise and democratize. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ central asia is an important region, located between several major international players (russia, china, india, iran). the european union must therefore be able to develop privileged relations with these countries to strengthen trade and energy relations. the report stresses, however, the importance of respect for human rights by these countries and of an intensive dialogue on infrastructure development, particularly in the areas of energy, the environment and water management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against mr meszerics' report on the implementation and revision of the eu strategy for central asia. foreign policy is a prerogative of the member states. the european union is generally a force for subversion and destabilisation, as the various developments in the eastern partnership have shown. it adds to the confusion in a fragile area with its double standards and interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it attempts to justify eu interference in the foreign policy of the member states with regard to central asia. foreign policy is and must remain the prerogative of the states.
in writing. ‒ central asia will become the new stage in a race to fossil fuels for the union. the european union, caught up in the escalation of tensions it has generated, is looking for ways of becoming independent of russian gas. the green rapporteur tried to minimise social and environmental impacts and to insist on cooperation for regional development with the major players involved, russia and china, which are committed to the new silk road. there are also clear references to respect for human rights, starting with a condemnation of child labour in cotton harvests in uzbekistan. but these demands of parliament will be left unanswered in the face of the proposed trade agreements. all this for european companies which have been in the service of authoritarian regimes for years, such as bouygues, which exports 40% of its turnover to turkmenistan and warmly thanked the president by having a golden statue of him built. i note the rapporteur's good points but i vote against this double standard, two perpetual measures between human rights and trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ foreign affairs are a matter for the state, the union has been clumsy in the various developments of the eastern partnership. i therefore believe that central asia is already suffering from a certain confusion, and that the union will add to it. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. the sole objective of this report on the "implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia" is obviously to seek, by any means, energy independence for the union from russia, by going to "steal" resources in central asia while minimizing social and environmental impacts, and disregarding sacrosanct human rights. as a result, this text is exclusively for the benefit of large groups who can thus shamelessly cooperate with local dictators to increase their profits. i also deny that the union has any competence in energy policy, which is a highly strategic area. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation and revision of the european union strategy for central asia. i support in particular the existence of provisions calling for cooperation with russia for the development of this region of the world but also to deal with the growing threat of islamic radicalisation in central asia. the european parliament has unfortunately been voting resolutions in profoundly anti-russian terms for months now, but i am glad that such a text has been adopted, which i hope will pave the way for a more constructive attitude on the part of the european parliament in its relations with russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which underlines the strong strategic, economic and political interest that the union sees in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries of central asia, on the basis of common values. it stressed that priorities and objectives should be more closely linked to the interests, needs and general situation of the central asian partner states. it emphasises the importance of regional cooperation in achieving long-term sustainable results. the report welcomes the reinstatement of the post of eu special representative for central asia, whose main role is to ensure that the coherence of the union's external action in the region is respected. the promotion and strengthening of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance is of great importance. it stressed that despite some positive developments in the countries of the region (legislative reforms, increased efforts to prevent torture and measures to eradicate child and forced labour), the situation with regard to respect for democratic standards and human rights remained worrying.
in writing. ‒ in our relations with the countries of central asia, it is important to consider our partners on a case-by-case basis, depending on their specificities on the one hand and our common interests on the other. this should not, however, lead to neglect of the essential regional cooperation which will be strengthened by the action of the union's special representative for central asia. i welcome the adoption of this report, which attaches the full weight to the promotion and strengthening of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. the situation in most of these countries, however, remains a cause for concern as regards respect for women's rights. we reaffirm our commitment to improving their situation. the same applies to respect for the freedoms which europe considers to be fundamental, the first of which is freedom of the press, of expression and of association.
in writing. ‒ foreign policy is a prerogative of sovereign states. the interests of the member states of the european union often differ in this area. moreover, whenever the union acts as such, it tends to destabilize the regions in which it intervenes. it is not a factor of peace, prosperity and stability for its members or for the third countries in whose affairs it is interfering in a totally illegitimate way. it would be better to focus on its own serious democratic dysfunctions rather than to teach the world a lesson. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation and revision of the european union strategy for central asia. it is important to stress the strong economic and political interest of the eu member states in strengthening relations with the countries of central asia, as indicated in the 2007 eu-central asia strategy. beyond the framework of cooperation for the whole area, however, i call for country-specific approaches, which can sometimes differ considerably. finally, economic integration and trade, as well as the eu's core values such as human rights and the rule of law, must guide our relations with central asia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the review of the union's strategy for central asia in 2015. the first point is to recall the union's strategic, economic and political interest in strengthening relations with the countries of central asia. the text calls for closer ad hoc collaboration, closer monitoring of the use of funds and a concrete action plan with measurable criteria to assess progress made or to be made. democracy, human rights and the rule of law must be the union's top priorities in the region. it is regrettable that very little progress has been made in the area of democracy and the rule of law, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression, women's rights and freedom of the press. i supported this text which calls for intensifying economic and trade relations with these countries. it also involves greater cooperation in the energy sector, since central asia is a potential additional source of energy security for the union. finally, it is essential to strengthen the union's cooperation with central asia in the security field in order to combat terrorism effectively.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the motion for a resolution on the zika virus epidemic in support of joëlle mélin, member of the european parliament for the national front. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this proposal was rejected by parliament and referred back to committee. that same evening, who declared a public health emergency of international concern. other initiatives by the member, such as an oral question and a draft resolution on the subject, have proved fruitless. finally, the co-rapporteur, mrs lulling, withdrew from the project after finding that there was too much amateurism and a complete lack of methodology in infectiology. the 'precautionary principle', for example, is nowhere to be found in the text. moreover, the votes on this matter take place three months after our group's initiative and the declaration of emergency. it is also important to note that this emergency was lifted on 30 march under pressure from the tourism and sports lobbies.
in writing. ‒ the ins and outs of this hypertrophied text are characterised by a very serious amateurism and a total absence of the necessary method in infectiology. in particular, the term 'precautionary principle' does not appear at any time. this is a glaring demonstration of the inept and, in the end, totally unstructured functioning of the 'thinking' of this institution. the vote will take place three months after our group's request and the declaration of emergency. meanwhile, under pressure from the tourism and sport lobbies (rio olympic games), the emergency was lifted on 30 march. so i abstained
in writing. ‒ in view of the amateurism of the envi (environment, public health and food safety) committee in relation to the zika epidemic, which led to the withdrawal of the co-rapporteur and member of the enl group, dr joëlle mélin, i cannot support the project: the votes on the measures needed to contain the epidemic take place three months after the enl group's request for registration of the zika epidemic in the emergency procedure and the who declaration of emergency. moreover, the final text shows a complete absence of the necessary method in infectiology, failing even to mention the "precautionary principle", which is crucial in such circumstances. the stupidity of the european institution and its functioning is blatant: far from wanting to fix things, this text is used to undermine sovereign decisions in social matters.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february 2016, at the request of a member of my group (enf), the inclusion of the zika outbreak in the emergency procedure was nevertheless rejected by parliament and referred back to committee. at 7 p.m., who, to avoid the scandal of the known delay in the ebola epidemic, declares a public health emergency of international concern. the question was what the commission was going to do about this new viral outbreak, which had already been submitted to who in november 2015 by the public health services of french polynesia. this question quickly turned into a hypertrophied, amateurish text, which grossly neglected the necessary precautions in the field of infectiology. this shows how completely inefficient parliament is in dealing with such matters, especially since the state of emergency was lifted on 30 march. the co-rapporteur of the project, belonging to enf, withdrew from the project and i decided to follow her recommendation to vote, i.e. to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report is characterised by a cruel lack of competence and a complete lack of the necessary methodology in infectiology. furthermore, the term 'precautionary principle' is not mentioned in the text. this clearly demonstrates the absurd and ill-organized way in which the "thinking" of this institution works. it is only after three months, after the request made by our group and the declaration of emergency, that the votes take place. the emergency was lifted on 30 march under pressure from tourism and sports lobbies. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion for a resolution on the zika virus epidemic, in support of joëlle mélin, mep for the enf. the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the introduction of a new health policy for the eu. this proposal was rejected by parliament and referred back to committee. that same evening, who declared a public health emergency of international concern. other initiatives undertaken by the member, such as an oral question and a draft resolution on the subject, have proved fruitless. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the 'precautionary principle', for example, is nowhere to be found in the text. moreover, the votes on this matter take place three months after our group's initiative and the declaration of emergency. it is also important to note that the emergency procedure was lifted on 30 march under pressure from the tourism and sports lobbies.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus epidemic is spreading very rapidly. territories of the european union are now affected by the virus, as are the french overseas territories (guadeloupe and saint-martin). we must act as quickly as possible to prevent the virus from spreading further within the european union and from reversing itself in the rest of the world. in this resolution, parliament welcomes the european commission's decision to commit eur 10 million for research into the virus. it would also be wise for the commission to put in place a real strategy to counter the zika virus. the spread of the virus is becoming more and more widespread, and it is essential to act accordingly. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to establish an emergency system in the context of the zika virus outbreak. it stresses the urgent need to coordinate international efforts to improve surveillance of the virus, intensify population control, and accelerate the development of diagnostic tests and vaccines. considering that the zika virus is a real public health threat and that it must be contained at all costs in order to eradicate it, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ 23 countries and territories are affected by the virus, including our overseas departments (guadeloupe, guyana, martinique and saint martin). the health emergency due to zika calls for an adequate response from the european union. a rapid action plan must be implemented to combat the spread of the virus, with the distribution of mosquito nets to protect populations, and condoms to prevent sexual transmission of the virus.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus must now be a global concern. on 1 february 2016, the world health organization declared the outbreak a public health emergency of global concern. in fact, since october 2015, 5,000 cases of microcephaly have been reported in brazil. more than 20 countries are affected by the virus, including french overseas territories such as guadeloupe and saint martin. as zika virus is sexually transmitted, there is a real risk of cross-border transmission and there is still no treatment. that is why i wanted to send a strong signal by voting in favour of the resolution on the zika virus, which highlights the impact of the epidemic on the health of women and newborns. the commission's decision to mobilise eur 10 million for scientific research is therefore supported.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the votes take place three months after our group's request and the declaration of emergency.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text, which in particular underlines the need for a coordinated approach at european and international level in the fight against this epidemic. the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt the necessary legislative measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. the text also calls on the commission to present an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and to assist member states and third countries in their fight against the outbreak in the most affected regions.
in writing. ‒ the ins and outs of this hypertrophied text are characterised by a very serious amateurism and a total absence of the necessary method in infectiology. in particular, the term 'precautionary principle' does not appear at any time. this is a glaring demonstration of the inept and, in the end, totally unstructured functioning of the 'thinking' of this institution. the vote will take place three months after our group's request and the declaration of emergency. meanwhile, under pressure from the tourism and sports lobbies (rio olympic games), the emergency was lifted on 30 march. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleagues in the committee on the environment on the zika virus disease outbreak. the text calls on the commission to present an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and recommends the establishment of prevention strategies. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the european union to have an action plan on the zika virus. this disease has been declared a 'public health emergency of global concern' by the who and requires greater coordination between member states at european level.
in writing. - i abstained on the resolution on zika. the ins and outs of this hypertrophied text are characterized by a very serious amateurism and a total absence of the necessary method in the field of infectiology. in particular, the term 'precautionary principle' does not appear at any time. this is a glaring demonstration of the inept and, in the end, totally unstructured functioning of the 'thinking' of this institution. the vote will take place three months after the request made by dr joëlle mélin on behalf of our group. meanwhile, under pressure from the tourism and sport (rio olympics) lobbies, the emergency was lifted on 30 march.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because this resolution on the zika virus problem is poorly drafted.
in writing. ‒ co-rapporteur of this text, dr joëlle melin, mep in our group, had to withdraw. alarmed by the lack of response from the who (world health organization) to the zika virus outbreak, she requested an emergency procedure and co-authored the report. however, the statement has been distorted and shows a shocking amateurism and a complete lack of methodology, which is necessary in infectiology, and ignores the precautionary principle. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ since the zika virus emerged in different regions of the world, the european early warning and response system for medical emergencies has been activated and the european centre for disease prevention and control is continuously monitoring the situation. the resolution urges the eu and its member states to step up prevention efforts as millions of europeans travel to areas likely to be affected in the coming months. the text also stresses the need for the eu to step up its research on the virus and its suspected effects, as well as on treatments and vaccines. the text also recommends that the commission and the member states concerned increase their particular vigilance in the early detection of cases of zika virus infection in the octs and octs. finally, as the eu is developing its strategy to combat this infection, the european parliament is highlighting the unique know-how and expertise of our overseas partners in the field of emerging vector-borne diseases, including zika virus. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the europe of nations and freedoms group had demanded that the text be included in the emergency procedure (which was done by the world health organization on the same day). the european parliament's refusal resulted in a lengthy procedure and a poor text. in particular, this text does not respect the appropriate methods of infectious diseases and does not take account of the precautionary principle.
in writing. - zika virus is an emerging virus transmitted by mosquitoes. after an initial outbreak in 2007 in micronesia, it has now spread to the south american continent, and in 2016, who "declared the zika virus outbreak a public health emergency of global concern". in addition, a causal link between zika virus infection during pregnancy and microcephaly is strongly suspected, although not yet scientifically proven. the resolution also supports "the call by the united nations for the repeal of laws and policies that restrict women's access to sexual and reproductive health services and rights in violation of international standards". but the resolution also stresses "the need for further research into the possible link between microcephaly and the larvicide pyriproxyfen", (manufactured by a monsanto partner to protect against rabies). i am voting for this text, which does not exclude any possible explanation.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february last, i applied for the zika outbreak to be listed as an emergency procedure. this was rejected by parliament, but two hours later, the who, not to be left behind (as with ebola), announced a public health emergency of international concern. an oral question and a motion for a resolution have been prepared by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the aim was to ask the commission to give an account of the action it recommended in the face of this new outbreak. the text has been distorted by a very serious amateurism after many amendments which ignore the precautionary principle. i have finally withdrawn my name as co-rapporteur from this motion for a resolution. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution follows the request by joelle mélin, member of the european parliament for the enf, to register the zika outbreak as an emergency procedure on 1 february 2016. two hours after parliament's rejection and referral back to committee, the who declares a public health emergency of international concern.... from a simple question about what the committee was going to do about this viral epidemic, the text has become an accumulation of assertions and questions characterized by very serious amateurism and a complete lack of methodology in infectiology. the vote on this proposal comes three months after the enf group's request and the declaration of emergency. and two weeks after the lifting of the emergency by the who... we therefore abstain against this overblown motion for a resolution which reflects the heavy handedness and incompetence of the european institutions.
in writing. while the enf group had requested the zika outbreak to be listed as an emergency procedure as early as 1 february 2016, the vote took place more than three months later. meanwhile, under pressure from the tourism and sport lobbies (rio oj), the emergency was lifted on 30 march. in the end, the text is characterized by amateurism and a complete absence of methodology in infectiology. for example, there is no mention of the precautionary principle, even though who, to avoid the scandal of the known delay for ebola, declared an international public health emergency. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ the zika virus, outbreaks of which have been reported in martinique and french guiana, is also present on the european continent. the virus, which causes microcephaly in the children of infected women, cannot currently be treated with a drug or prevented by a vaccine. the resolution stresses the need for further research to find an effective treatment and for an internationally coordinated approach to combat the virus. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the zika virus disease outbreak. i commend the european parliament for taking concrete action against this serious virus which is spreading so dramatically and so rapidly in this part of the world, and particularly in the french west indies. martinique and guadeloupe are french and european overseas departments affected by this epidemic, and we could not remain inactive. true to the victories achieved in france for women's rights, i could only encourage safe access to prenatal medical care for pregnant women infected with zika virus. finally, we must continue to encourage scientific research, particularly on severe cases of congenital brain malformations, by mobilising additional funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the zika virus disease outbreak, as it reflects our concerns about the spread of the disease and its health consequences, particularly for pregnant women and infants. at present, the epidemic has already affected the french overseas territories. it is essential that action is taken by the entire international community and the european union to combat the spread of the virus, that care is developed as quickly as possible, and that it can be made accessible. it is up to the european commission to put in place a strategy to combat the epidemic and to take appropriate measures in the affected regions.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february, my colleague dr mélin, for the enf group, requested that the zika outbreak be listed as an emergency procedure. the draft debate was sent to the envi committee, where an oral question and a draft resolution were drawn up. the initial question was simple: "what does the commission intend to do about this new viral outbreak that was already submitted to who in november 2015 by the public health services of french polynesia?" the final text, which is overblown, is characterized by a serious amateurism and a complete absence of the necessary method in the field of infectiology. in particular, the term 'precautionary principle' does not appear at any time. this is a clear demonstration of the de-structured operation of this institution, up to the point of aberration. the vote will take place three months after our group's request and the declaration of emergency. meanwhile, under pressure from the tourism and sports lobbies (rio olympic games), the emergency was lifted on 30 march. for all these reasons, the co-rapporteur, dr joëlle mélin, withdrew from the project. like her, i regret the shortcomings of a text that is necessary and important, but i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february 2016, the world health organization declared the zika virus outbreak, whose main infection hotspots were found in brazil, to be a global public health emergency. today, the virus has been reported in 28 countries. in voting in favour of the resolution, i called on the european commission to propose an action plan, with specific measures for the european regions affected by the virus, to prevent the spread of the virus in europe. this is particularly so since france is the only european country affected by the virus through its outermost regions. finally, europe must help third countries affected by the epidemic wherever necessary and possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the zika virus outbreak. in february, the who declared the epidemic a public health emergency of global concern. a growing number of preliminary studies suggest that zika virus is one of the causes of microcephaly - a condition in which babies are born with smaller than average skulls and delayed brain development - as well as guillain-barré syndrome. currently, there is no specific treatment or vaccine. the consequences of this virus can be life-changing for the victims, and it is urgent to take all the necessary measures to combat it, to help the most affected regions and to prevent its spread in europe. in particular, research should be conducted on preventive measures, treatments and the suspected link between the virus and microcephaly. i welcome the commission's decision to mobilise eur 10 million for this purpose. finally, awareness-raising and information work is needed, both among citizens and healthcare professionals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the eu to have an action plan against the zika virus. zika virus is transmitted by mosquito bites and is suspected of causing malformations in the foetus of infected pregnant women and guillain-barré syndrome. it was declared a "public health emergency of global concern" by the who on 1 february 2016. the text calls for greater coordination in the eu to deal with the virus and calls for the european centre for disease prevention and control to set up a committee of experts to coordinate eu action. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by road, rail and inland waterway. there is an urgent need for a coordinated and effective union response to global health crises.
in writing. ‒ our enl group is at the origin of the zika virus debate, with the aim of ensuring that the phenomenon is treated as soon as possible. it is urgent that we address the problem of this virus before we are no longer able to respond to the threat. however, the weighting of the text with multiple unstructured and epidemiologically unnecessary considerations renders it inefficient. there is also an attack on the sovereignty of the member countries. i shall vote against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ we call on the polish authorities to fully implement the recommendations of the venice commission on the capacity of the polish constitutional tribunal to respect its constitution and to ensure respect for the rule of law. if the polish government does not comply with the recommendations, the european commission must go further and activate the second stage of the 'systemic threats to the rule of law' procedure launched on 13 january.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which interferes in the internal affairs of a member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the polish constitutional crisis creates two parallel legal systems, which can lead to great legal uncertainty. it is essential that the pis government respects the democratic values of the european union and stops pushing poland away from a community of shared values.
in writing. ‒ when will the unelected bureaucrats of the commission let the democratically elected governments of our member states implement the programme that brought them to office?
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the situation in poland is totally abnormal in a european union which defends democracy and respect for freedoms. the member states are sovereign and must freely decide their internal policy and the european union does not have to intervene to criticise poland in the management of its constitutional court, for example. the polish electorate has elected a president and then a conservative majority assembly around the law and justice party and that is the real problem of the union, which does not accept that the peoples can in fact decide their own destiny. i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ since the coming to power of the eurosceptic law and justice (pis) party, the polish government has implemented a series of highly controversial reforms such as the reform of the constitutional court and the reform of public television and radio. on 13 january, the european commission launched a preliminary investigation to determine whether the rule of law is threatened by these reforms. respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights is a major element of the european construction. to be part of the european union, each member state must guarantee respect for the european values set out in article 2 of the treaty. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has a duty to investigate when these values are put at risk. the situation in poland is clearly worrying and needs to be examined very closely. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which states that the polish government has been denying the rule of law since it took office. as a reminder, the polish government introduced two profoundly anti-democratic laws in december 2015, one significantly limiting the powers of the polish constitutional court, the other endangering the functioning of the public media and their funding. following these unfortunate events, the commission decided to activate the rule of law alert mechanism, which aims to assess systemic threats to the democratic foundations of the eu member states. i am glad that parliament, by means of this resolution, is supporting the commission's approach and calling to order poland, which, like other member states, is playing a dangerous part in the fragmentation of the union's fundamental values.
in writing. ‒ this non-binding resolution on the situation and rule of law in poland follows the commission's decision to initiate a first stage of the 'framework for addressing systemic threats to the rule of law' in poland in order to find a way out of the current situation through dialogue with the polish authorities. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. it seems to me impossible to ignore the deviations of the current polish government (in particular the decision of the constitutional tribunal finding its own functioning incompatible with the polish constitution). the resolution does not aim to place the european parliament as a lecturer to the member states, but rather to initiate a dialogue with a view to finding solutions to the shortcomings identified. i shall make a final judgment on poland's situation in the light of the european commission's conclusions.
in writing. ‒ in recent months, many political and legal controversies have taken place in poland. among them, the reform of the functioning of the polish constitutional court and the appointment of heads of public media by the executive branch are to be highlighted. the reform of the constitutional tribunal increases the majority required for the tribunal to adopt a decision. this reform now makes it possible for unconstitutional laws to be passed without constitutional review and to remain valid for a long period. in other words, this is a dangerous challenge to the rule of law, which opens the way to deviations. as regards the appointment of public media leaders by the executive, it should be recalled that editorial freedom and media pluralism are essential to democracy. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that respect for the rule of law and democracy is not only a common fundamental value but also an imperative obligation for the european union and its member states.
in writing. the situation in poland is of great concern to all european democrats. the current government has undertaken a series of reforms that are moving the country away from european democratic standards with its challenges to both press freedom and the expression of opposition. the most consequential reform concerns the constitutional council, because it is the foundations of democracy and the rule of law that it attacks. in addition, the proposed changes in legislation on ivg would represent an intolerable regression for the status of women. the european parliament, by voting this resolution, is showing its support for the process initiated by the european commission to find a way out of the situation through dialogue with the polish authorities. however, if the polish government does not comply with its recommendations, the european commission will have to activate the second stage of the procedure to deal with 'systemic threats to the rule of law', launched in january. the values and principles enshrined in the european union treaties on human rights must be respected by every member state and poland cannot evade this imperative obligation without serious consequences.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in poland, which i think is quite prudent in that we cannot ignore certain deviations of the current government, in particular its decision to ignore the decision of the constitutional tribunal that the law of december 2015 governing its own functioning is incompatible with the polish constitution. there are institutional mechanisms in polish democracy which guarantee the separation of powers and control the effective observance of the rule of law. it would appear that the government in power does not fully respect this institutional organization. when this balance is undermined, it is therefore the duty of the european commission, the guarantor of respect for the european treaty and european values, to organise a dialogue with the member state concerned and identify the existing shortcomings. however, i think that the time has not yet come for the statement of objections and i am therefore awaiting the commission's conclusions before i can make a final judgment on the situation in poland.
in writing. ‒ once again, the european union is interfering by seeking to penetrate the heart of the national affairs of a sovereign state. i am opposed to the european institutions deciding on the internal situation of a country like poland. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr estéban gonzález pons, on the situation in poland. the motion for a resolution stresses that the paralysis of the polish constitutional tribunal threatens democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the report therefore calls on the polish government to implement the recommendations of the venice commission and supports the commission's determination to develop a structured dialogue which should allow for the determination of whether there is a systemic threat to democratic values and the rule of law in poland. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the resolution i voted for was aimed at criticising the new polish conservative government's blocking of the constitutional tribunal. the current government in poland introduced a new law amending the two-thirds qualified majority rule in this court and appointed five judges of its choice, following a controversial procedure. it was therefore necessary to reaffirm the importance of the european union's fundamental values of democracy and the rule of law, which must be respected by all its member states.
in writing. ‒ this joint resolution of the main groups, including ours, calls on the polish authorities to end their blocking of the constitutional tribunal. as soon as it came to power, jaroslaw kascinski's ultra-conservative pis party began a purge of the public media and key state positions, including the constitutional court, by reviewing its procedures and appointments of judges. the court responded with judgments blocking these measures, but the polish government refused to publish these judgments, thus blocking its activities. this resolution rightly expresses its concern about the rule of law in poland and calls on the polish government to respect and implement the judgments of the court. i voted for this resolution, of course, condemning an authoritarian government which does not tolerate any dissenting voices, from the public media to the institutions which are the basis of polish democracy, and which even goes so far as to attack its symbols by attacking lech walesa.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on the situation in poland. the europe of nations and freedoms group had tabled its own resolution. this is yet another unacceptable interference by the european union in the internal affairs of a member state. the polish voters have elected a government which the brussels nobles do not like, and that is their crime. once again, the european union shows a total disregard for democracy and the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it interferes, in a scandalous and unconstitutional way, in the internal politics of a sovereign state: poland. the eu considers that the state is wrong in bringing a sovereignist president and government to power.
in writing. ‒ since coming to power, the polish law and justice party has passed several ultra-conservative laws. the society is protesting in the streets. the venice commission of the council of europe (an intergovernmental organisation, not the union) made up of independent jurists has given a negative opinion on the reform of the polish constitutional court and is now considering the reform of the police. the european parliament is taking a firm stand on respect for the rule of law, while the european commission has just launched a 'structured dialogue on the rule of law' against poland for the first time. the report is strangely silent on other laws such as the total ban on abortion. i abstain on this text because i do not support an undemocratic and partial procedure for the examination of a state's policies by unelected european bodies. we shall see whether the commission is as diligent in ensuring respect for 'fundamental rights' as it is in ensuring respect for the 'golden rules' of the economy.
in writing. - i'm against interference in polish affairs. i therefore voted against the gue/ngl motion.
in writing. this text shows an unlikely interference by the european parliament in a sovereign country like poland, whose leaders have no ambition to sink their country into the europeanist mold. lessons on the rule of law are a must, and there is no shortage of references to alleged violations of press freedom... in short, poland (along with hungary) embodies everything that the europeanist spirit cannot tolerate: that we follow the will of the people. worse still, the text entrusts the european commission, the 'guardian of the treaties' (or rather the prison of the peoples...), with the task of conducting an inquiry into the democratic tendencies in poland. it also stressed that member states must 'fully respect union law'. where was the european parliament when the german leadership was exerting an unthinkable blackmail on the greek people in flagrant violation of the values so pompously recalled in the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights? this one-sided indignation is a desperate attempt to save the 'european union' soldier from certain shipwreck. it was a waste. i voted against this grotesque text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the polish authorities to respect democratic principles and the rule of law, including by publishing and implementing the decisions of the constitutional tribunal, paralysed by the recent measures taken by the polish president and government. i also supported an amendment expressing concern about the proposal to ban abortion altogether in poland.
in writing. ‒ the situation in poland was already the subject of a debate in the european parliament in february. we are now adopting a resolution in which we recall our values, those of freedom and independence of the media and of justice, and respect for human rights. i welcome a clear and welcome resolution which rightly expresses our friendship and consideration for poland and its citizens.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is an unlawful interference in poland's internal affairs. the poles are a free and sovereign people. the european union has no right or legitimacy to impose anything on them, since the members of the commission have not even been elected and their policies are rejected by the various peoples when they have the opportunity to vote on them. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the situation in poland is worrying and it is the duty of meps to bring the authorities of the country to order. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the polish state to resolve as soon as possible the present paralysis with its constitutional tribunal. this situation threatens democracy, human rights and the fundamental principles of the rule of law. moreover, i am deeply concerned that these core values of the european union are now being flouted in the country that receives the most european funds. i therefore support the european commission's decision to engage in a structured political dialogue with poland, so that the country can quickly return to the path of respect for the fundamental rules governing our democracies.
in writing. ‒ the coming to power of the law and justice party in poland has brought the constitutional court to a standstill and media freedom into question. now the government is preparing to attack women's rights by considering a law banning abortion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is also a threat to the integrity of the european union as a whole. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must be uncompromising in its efforts to ensure that european values are respected in all the member states. while it is welcome that the european rule of law framework has been activated in poland, it must lead to concrete results. if dialogue does not work, we will have to move to the next level, even if we have to impose sanctions, including financial ones. if i support the resolution as it stands, i would have preferred it to be more firm on this point. all this shows the urgency of adopting a european rule of law pact, which will strengthen the union's capacity to defend the founding principles of democracy and the rule of law on which it was built.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the alarming situation in poland. unfortunately, it still seems necessary to recall that membership of the union is based on respect for imperative values, such as respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental freedoms. recent events in poland - including the actions of the polish government against the constitutional tribunal - demonstrate the need to defend these values against any inclination of certain governments to undermine them. in this regard, the commission notes that the polish government has not provided any evidence that the polish government has acted in violation of the law and that the polish government has not provided any evidence that the polish government has acted in violation of the law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we also support the launch of a structured dialogue under the rule of law framework to determine whether or not there is a systemic threat to democracy and the rule of law in poland. no one can depart from european values without trampling on the foundation on which the european project is based and lives.
in writing. ‒ the rule of law is the cornerstone of democracy and one of the founding principles of the european union, along with human dignity and freedom. the recent events in poland have led the european parliament to question the polish government's compliance with these principles. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are fully involved in the fight against terrorism. they are also concerned about other initiatives by the polish government which could be contrary to european law and fundamental rights, particularly women's rights. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights (fra) is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. parliament called on the commission to conduct this dialogue in an impartial manner and to initiate the second stage aimed at safeguarding the rule of law if necessary. for all these reasons, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which reflects the european union's concerns about the actions of the current polish government. this resolution echoes recent developments in poland concerning respect for the rule of law, in particular the appointments to the constitutional tribunal and the amendments to the law on public service broadcasters. the aim of this resolution is to initiate a dialogue, in line with the dialogue launched by the european commission, to find solutions in a spirit of cooperation between the european institutions and the polish government.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament expresses its deep concern about the rule of law, human rights and democracy in poland. the resolution adopted deals mainly with the polish government's refusal to comply with a decision of the polish constitutional court. it highlights the concerns about the risks of two legal systems coexisting in parallel. the resolution calls for respect for the judgments of the constitutional tribunal implementing the recommendations of the venice commission, i.e. the council of europe. several political groups have refused to go beyond and integrate the overall issue of the development of human rights in poland and in particular women's rights, with the right to abortion being called into question. we proposed four amendments to this effect which were rejected by the parliamentary majority on the grounds that a specific resolution would be adopted at a forthcoming plenary session. i regret it considering one of yours is better than two you'll have. i voted in favour of this resolution at least, hoping that all the concerns of polish citizens who defend the rule of law will be addressed very soon.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, madam minister, as you have said, there is no infallible mechanism for combating terrorism, unfortunately. the pnr, like all the other devices we can implement, will not be infallible. but precisely because i am convinced of this, i am also convinced that we must have this pnr, because it is not a blunt instrument of mass surveillance. the pnr is a selective, proportionate and extremely strictly regulated instrument. it was quite legitimate for some of us to express concern about the vigilance that we must necessarily exercise. these concerns have been taken into account in the compromise we have to approve today. so we must not hesitate any longer. let me tell you one last very important thing. many of you tell us that the pnr would not have prevented the attacks in brussels and paris. i find this argument, to say the least, very questionable and almost indecent, because no one is able to say exactly what could or could not have prevented the attacks in paris and brussels, knowing that the networks that fomented them have not yet been completely dismantled. if we find in the future any evidence that we could have intervened in the traceability of this or that suspect by means of the pnr, many of us will regret having delayed so long. it is therefore time to act and i think we have a text which is sufficiently balanced to be clear-sighted, pragmatic and effective.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the schengen area is moribund; the wave of migration has overwhelmed the fragile barriers of its external borders. unfortunately, many terrorists have taken advantage of this to enter the european union. rather than admitting the failure of schengen, the union is seeking to create a diversion by creating a european pnr, i.e. a generalised record of the hundreds of millions of air passengers entering or leaving the union. this mass indexing will have no effect on the fight against terrorism. it would not have been possible to apprehend any of the killers in paris or brussels. the european data protection supervisor himself acknowledges that the pnr will have, i quote, 'little practical use'. the pnr is therefore nothing more than a smokescreen to cover up the failure of schengen, a pitiful attempt to save a european union that is running out of breath. the real solution is to re-establish national control of internal borders, the only way to prevent foreign terrorists from entering france, whatever the means of access they use - land, sea or air.
mr president, i too would like to welcome the outcome of this important case, because the collection and use of passenger data will make it possible, or at least hopefully make it possible, to step up the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of transnational crime and terrorist threats. it is a tool that is needed now more than ever in the face of growing threats and, of course, to ensure the security of europeans, but it is only one of the tools in an arsenal that must be strengthened. i shall vote in favour of this text at the same time because i am convinced that if the attacks have been directed at all of us europeans, the response must be european. and i regret that in this text, which has occupied so much time in this parliament, we have not gone further in the security tool, the tool for protecting the lives of citizens, which is the pnr, by making it compulsory for the states to transmit information, and that we have not succeeded in convincing the states, often a little hypocritical, to make it a highly centralized system.
mr president, as the french prime minister would say, the european parliament is finally taking its responsibilities and voting on the nrp. they want us to believe that this is the miracle tool against terrorism. everyone here is committed to the safety of our fellow citizens, and i believe that there should be no lawsuits in this matter. but i think there is nothing to be proud of in voting for this text. it will be liberticidal, and i do not go back on everything my colleagues have already said on the subject - i share it. it will be useless because it does not target the data collected. it is false, because it is not european, but only harmonizes national pnrs and therefore does not oblige the states to share data. contrary to what some people would have you believe, nothing would have prevented the attacks in paris and brussels. the terrorists traveled by train, by car and they were, yes, known to the police departments. we need to take stock of this, not leakage of technology that will serve the interests of big business first, which is a subject we should return to. the fight against terrorism requires, first and foremost, human resources to enable the police and the judiciary to do their job.
mr president, it is easier to tell the european citizens that if a new tragedy could not be avoided, it is because a supposedly magical tool has not been adopted by those horrible naïves in the european parliament - and i am using here the most sympathetic term that has been used against us in recent months - than to admit that the tools exist but that, despite the warnings and the increase in the level of threat, the necessary financial and human resources have not been devoted to them. so we pull the pnr out of our hat. the databases and files are there. what's wrong is cooperation, the sharing of information. that is what we must make compulsory and what the nrp does not impose. let us create the conditions for success, not for the planned failure of an ultra-secure society that is as inefficient as it is dangerous. we must make it compulsory for the member states to use existing files and exchange information. let us enable cooperation between the services of the member states, let us train them to work together, to trust each other, let us create a european public prosecutor's office which would facilitate investigations and remove the last obstacles.
mr president, i would like to welcome the agreement that has finally been reached on the pnr. i regret that it has taken so long and, unfortunately, so many victims to convince those who have delayed it for too long, for opposite reasons. but the additional powers now given to the member states also give them additional duties. first, a duty of prompt execution; it is a directive and therefore needs to be transposed. then there's a duty to use the files; the previous tragedies have shown, as several speakers have already pointed out, that the many files already in existence were under-supplied and under-used by most member states. this is the case with sis 2, europol, eurodoc, and others. finally, the third task: to prepare the next step, namely the establishment of a european judicial police to deal with crossborder crime. the european arrest warrant was a first significant, but insufficient, step forward. the treaty defines european crimes and creates a european public prosecutor. there are no longer any frontiers for criminals, and there must be no more frontiers for police and judges. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". if there's an apology to be made, it's more likely to be made by you. of course, there are other ways, theoretical ways that were unrealistic, that governments would not have accepted. we're playing politics. we are not looking for an unattainable ideal. we are looking for realistic and effective compromises. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs. in't veld, i fully agree with your remark, which is a criticism. i accept criticism without calling others populists, and i do believe, and i repeat, that the lesson we have to learn is that our governments have a duty to use all the means at their disposal. they haven't done enough of that in the past. however, france was one of only five countries out of 28 that used the existing files, and we now have a duty to ensure that all 28 countries use all the files, including, finally, the pnr. if my words offended you, i do apologize. i didn't accuse anyone. i simply noted that the delay could only have had negative effects in the fight against terrorism.
mr president, the european nrp is reinforcing the union's legislative arsenal to combat terrorism. this instrument will be useful in addition to other arrangements already in place to enable us to face this threat together, but it will only have real impact if all member states agree to participate actively and in a coordinated manner. it was necessary to achieve an effective and operational, fair and proportionate tool, one which ensures the protection of individual freedoms, in particular respect for privacy. the link with the data protection package is therefore very important. i will vote for the joint adoption of these two texts, which are a first step towards the creation of a common legal framework to combat terrorism, while safeguarding the rights of everyone. but the fight against terrorism is not limited to the pnr. it must be tackled through a comprehensive and common approach, including control of the movement of firearms, the drying up of sources of terrorist financing, the fight against the trafficking of forged documents, and european harmonisation in railway safety.
my dear colleagues, the blue boxes are 30 seconds. they're not for getting an extra minute. i am sorry, but at this rate we are again going to double the length of this debate. it is very important, but let us respect each other's speaking time. you were already fifty seconds away, mrs. corazza bildt, so thank you. we shall now resume this debate and try to approach it in the most homogeneous way possible.
madam president, if the european nrp is adopted tomorrow, it will be a victory for perseverance and a triumph for reason. perseverance, first, because the right and the centre of this parliament fought for this text to be adopted, never giving up, in the face of a left that opposed it in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016. secondly, because these are common sense measures which in no way infringe fundamental freedoms, nor violate any of the principles of human rights. i have heard this afternoon from its most vocal critics that the european nrp would not have prevented the attacks in brussels and paris. but what do they know? they'd be hard pressed to demonstrate it to us. for who can seriously tell us that this system is useless before it even exists? who can deny that many countries have developed a similar system? who can ignore, for example, the experience of the united kingdom, which, thanks to the pnr, was able to carry out the interpellation of more than 20 000 individuals between 2010 and 2015? the truth is, we need that pnr. it will be one of the means - not the only one, of course, but one which, in addition to others, will make it possible to fight against those who fight and threaten our convictions, our freedoms, our way of life and our societies. (the speaker refuses a question from mr albrecht)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 14 april 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the report on turkey 2015 (2015/2898 ((rsp)).
madam president, this is a sober report. he speaks the truth about the dictator erdogan, he acknowledges that the union has turned a blind eye to fundamental rights in turkey and this, for a cooperation that is at least problematic, let us admit it. it is therefore to be expected that the accession negotiations will be closed immediately. no, you can't! this report even proposes to relaunch the process. my dear colleagues, do you want political islam in europe - in fact, the spread of islamism? i'm afraid he is. you are faced with the truth of a terrorist regime, with logistical and financial support for daesh, with the truth of a forced partnership imposed by the americans to make nato even more "ottoman", with the truth of a mafia regime that is racketeering migrants and european institutions. and, faced with these truths, you chose the lie, out of weakness, out of cowardice in the face of a master singer whom you have already made your sultan against our europe, that of the peoples you have betrayed.
mr president, because turkey buys oil from the refineries of the islamic state, because turkey has allegedly supplied the same islamic state with equipment for the production of sarin gas, because turkey prefers to bomb kurdish rebels rather than the jihadists of the nusra front and the islamic state, because turkey allows migrants on its territory to enter the schengen area illegally, for all these reasons it is unacceptable to liberalize visas for turkish nationals coming to europe, just as it is unacceptable to pay an additional three billion euros to turkey. but above all, it would be suicidal to continue negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if i were to sum up the work of the commission and the rapporteur, i would say: courage, let us run! as for you, ladies and gentlemen, you are now opening your eyes after having opened 17 chapters on turkey's accession to the european union. since 1987 you, the socialists, the liberals and the epp, have been putting in place the principles for turkey's accession to the european union, while you have not seen that there was a breach of democracy, of human rights, of respect for minorities, of the occupation of cyprus since 1974 - what hypocrisy! but we have no principles to pass on to turkey either. we have no lessons to teach them, because here too the european union is a totalitarian institution which also despises the peoples.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, europe's balkan policy has been directed against the serbian people. the serbian people are being attacked by two islamic-mafia entities, the alliance of crime and jihad in kosovo and bosnia-herzegovina. the serbian people are also being subjected to the systematic and repeated application of a policy of double standards. the two million refugees in turkey, mostly muslims, are refugees, but the two million serbian christians who were expelled are displaced. the albanian minorities in serbia and kosovo, as well as the muslim minorities, are being embraced by the washington-berlin-ankara axis which has become the european axis; but the bosnian serbs are a bad minority, and they cannot defend themselves by voting, by referendum, by more autonomy. more than 60 local competences of the serbs in bosnia and herzegovina were allegedly taken away from them, in violation of the dayton agreements. the resistance of the serbian people is the future path of defence of our europe against political islamism; these are the heroic forerunners of the resistance.
madam president, commissioner, the report by our colleague cristian dan preda sheds a positive light on bosnia-herzegovina's progress towards the rule of law and the implementation of democracy. nor does it conceal the considerable efforts still to be made to combat corruption, to promote freedom of expression, to provide a minimum basis of education for the young, to reject discrimination and ethnic discrimination. but what i remember most is the incredible timeliness of the situation in this country. it bridges the riots of yesterday's warriors to the turmoil of today. the balkans have been the scene of european murderous madness in the past and it seems to me that the european union must now help with what i call the 'debalkanization' of these territories by welcoming the applications for membership from the countries of the former yugoslavia. i believe that it is the duty of the european union to work in this area to restore the unity that has been lost.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all, i would like to thank members for the overwhelmingly positive comments on bosnia and herzegovina which i was able to witness today. the commission very much welcomes the resolution on bosnia and herzegovina. i would like once again to congratulate the rapporteur, cristian preda, on his high-quality report and to thank all the members who have actively participated in the debate, not only today, but also in committee, and have shown a keen interest in bosnia and herzegovina’s european future. the commission takes note of this resolution and will take parliament’s views into account, including those expressed today. we specifically share parliament’s view that the country’s authorities need to continue with their determination in pursuing socio-economic reforms, including their effective implementation and making steady progress towards the european union. this would be particularly necessary to enable the council to decide whether to seek the commission’s opinion on the merits of bosnia and herzegovina’s application. at the same time, the commission is also looking to the country’s authorities to ensure the functionality of the coordination mechanism on eu affairs and to adapt the saa, following croatia’s accession to the european union. let me also mention that the commission has taken note of parliament’s call for internal reform within the country based on several principles such as decentralisation and federalism. however, in line with our approach to all enlargement countries, including past eu enlargements, the commission reiterates that the european union has no competence regarding the internal structure of a state. what matters is the capacity of a country to meet all its obligations as a future european union member. it will be up to bosnia and herzegovina’s authorities and citizens to decide how best to comply with the european union membership requirements. likewise, i would like to emphasise that, as is the case with any country aspiring to the eu, the commission will particularly insist that the country fully abide by the principles of non—discrimination against its citizens, irrespective of their ethnicity, belief or gender, in line with the european union acquis. finally, i would like to stress that the commission will spare no effort in supporting bosnia and herzegovina on its path towards the european union. this also applies when it comes to using eu money efficiently and in a sustainable targeted manner, but there has to be a national strategy in the relevant areas. that is what we are discussing with the bosnia and herzegovina authorities: there has to be an idea of how to best use the money in order to ensure not only that it will have an impact on the country, but also that it will provide the necessary european added value. the commission will keep parliament informed in the coming months on further developments regarding bosnia and herzegovina. i hope that we shall be able to report more very positive developments from this country in the western balkan region.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, there is little i can add after everything that has been said, for example by our commissioner hahn. but let me express once more my sincere gratitude for the excellent work of parliament’s rapporteur on bosnia and herzegovina, mr preda. i want to underline that we obviously stand ready to provide further support and assistance to help the country move closer to the eu, but the hardest job lies ahead of the country’s leaders, who now need to ensure meaningful progress in the implementation of the reform agenda. the council will then be able to consider bosnia and herzegovina’s eu membership application in due course.
i'm the reporter. madam president, we are here tonight in the house to debate the draft directive on the protection of professional know-how, know-how, confidential commercial information, all those things commonly known as 'business secrets'. we are in particular responsible for discussing among ourselves the agreement reached in the trilogue on this important draft directive. this is the first time that we have had the opportunity to present the result of the trilogue agreement in plenary. the main objectives of this directive are to combat economic and industrial espionage and the looting of our european companies, to protect our innovation and research and to defend our european competitiveness. of course, the aim is to provide a common legal basis, common european rules for all economic operators in the european union, in order to ensure a stable and secure legal framework. it is a question of combating the legal fragmentation which currently exists in the european internal market, which we must of course complete and improve its functioning. the patchwork of different national legislative systems, which are disparate, leads to instability and legal uncertainty. the idea is therefore to have the most uniform protection possible at european level of those trade secrets, professional know-how, know-how, strategic and commercial information which are of value, which represent the intangible heritage of our companies and which are important for their economic development and for the development of our jobs in europe. we have been keen to support these main objectives together in the european parliament, particularly in the legal affairs committee. we were of course also concerned - and were fully determined in this respect - to ensure that the protection of trade secrets could not in any way affect the exercise of fundamental freedoms, such as the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and information, the foremost of which are, of course, freedom of the press and pluralism of the media, and which are also, for example, the right of workers to be represented by trade union representatives, who may be made aware of trade secrets, or the right to professional mobility. after a very long period of work - more than 18 months of work in three parliamentary committees - we have managed to agree on these major priorities and to substantially amend, transform and improve the original proposal for a directive as presented to us by the european commission. we have transformed it, we have improved it, in particular, and especially in a spirit, i would say, of very positive, very constructive and genuine collegiality on the part of the members of the committee on legal affairs, and then of the european parliament's negotiating team, who went to discuss, negotiate, engage in a sometimes quite violent confrontation with the council, strengthen fundamental freedoms, strengthen protection, of course, in terms of freedom of expression and freedom of information, which must be granted both to journalists, especially investigative journalists, and to whistleblowers whose activities must be able to be exercised freely and conscientiously. and it is thanks to the extremely positive contribution of all the fictitious rapporteurs who, together with me, were very active participants in the negotiating team that we obtained, in the negotiations with the council, a text which took up 100% of the recommendations and red lines of the european parliament. it is therefore now a balanced text, which protects not only what is essential for our companies, their professional know-how, their intangible heritage which is so valuable for their economic development, but also the fundamental freedoms and the exercise of the profession of journalist and the activities of whistleblowers. i therefore call for a frank and massive support for this balanced and fair text which we have drawn up together.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the legal affairs committee and warmly congratulate the rapporteur, ms constance le grip, and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent and successful work on the trade secrets protection directive. both the work and the constructive spirit in the negotiations facilitated reaching satisfactory compromise and hopefully, if this house votes in favour tomorrow, the swift adoption of the directive at first reading. trade secrets are an important part of businesses’ intellectual capital in the knowledge economy. trade secrets are widely used to obtain a competitive advantage, to undertake research and development activity or to innovate in general. for instance, secret know-how is licensed every day between business partners as part of technology transfer deals, and trade secrets are essential for success. every patent first started as a trade secret. this widespread use of trade secrets is general to all businesses, but smes value and rely on trade secrets even more than larger companies. valuable trade secrets, however, become worthless if misappropriated by others. the risk of such misappropriation is real and could come from cyberattacks, economic espionage and unreliable partners in extended supply chains, for instance. the new eu rules will provide for effective eu-wide means of redress against such trade secret misappropriation. eu businesses will have better tools to fight against unfair and dishonest behaviour that threatens the value of their intellectual capital. this is an important step forward in allowing our creators and innovators to get profit from their hard work and intellectual efforts. let me be clear: this directive is not about promoting secrecy in business, it is about trust. thousands of eu companies, most of them smes, are innovating out there, sharing confidential information. the new eu rules will contribute to building such trust, as they will ensure that the risk of sharing information diminishes. this directive is also about the fairer and deeper single market, one of the priorities of this commission. a deeper single market, because the new rules will provide for more predictability and legal certainty. they will also result in a simpler legal framework facilitating the life of enterprises. companies will no longer need to research and analyse 28 different and disparate national laws; they can count on a harmonised approach. at the same time, rules will reduce unfair competition from rogue competitors who are cutting corners by not respecting the rules. a fairer single market means saying ‘no’ to hacking, cheating and economic espionage as business practices. this directive is not only about protecting businesses holding trade secrets; it is also about placing limits on the protection of trade secrets, avoiding abuse and ensuring full respect for disclosing obligations established by transparency rules. it is not here to protect potential illegal behaviour of companies. on the contrary, it serves to safeguard fundamental rights and freedoms and the legitimate interest of citizens, consumers, employees, honest competitors, journalists and public administrations. a significant added value of this directive lies in achieving the right balance between the different interests in this area. the european parliament has been decisive in improving the clarity of the proposal in this regard. thus, considering the overall compromise that has been achieved by the co-legislators and the benefits and significant added value for enterprises and citizens at large, the commission welcomes and endorses the agreed compromise deal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, i disagree with what i have heard. i believe that this directive was originally proposed to protect the know-how of companies against unfair practices. however, there is a concern that such legislation will further encourage a culture of secrecy and a lack of transparency on the part of companies. how many health, environmental and human scandals have been hushed up because of the institutions' inability to obtain information classified as "confidential"? we have new cases every day. for example, in the case of glyphosate, we cannot obtain the studies that are classified as "confidential" by the companies. as for clinical trials, it's the pharmaceutical companies that say they're trade secrets. every time a scandal has broken out, the public has been informed and the legislature has taken the necessary action in response, it has been thanks to the courage of a few zealous whistleblowers. now, this text questions the ability of these extraordinary people to reveal information that they were supposed to keep quiet. because the question is not whether, after a long trial, they will be acquitted. no, the question is whether companies will not abuse this directive to ruin their lives, destroy their families, prevent them from getting back to work and plunge them into a distress that few people can imagine. i would have liked - and i am addressing the commission - that you had proposed a directive to protect whistleblowers before this directive. the two go together; it's not a matter of choosing one or the other.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this directive has the merit of protecting trade secrets against economic espionage. this protection is a major concern for european companies, particularly smes, as it prohibits the unlawful disclosure of know-how which is patentable and whose confidentiality must be guaranteed during the research and development phase. it is also in the interest of the european peoples, whose capacity for innovation is thus encouraged. the directive also has the merit of ensuring the protection of whistleblowers. article 5 of the directive allows them to reveal - and i quote - "fault, improper conduct or illegal activity" in the public interest. if this directive had already been transposed, it would have prevented the conviction for breach of trade secrets of the frenchmen antoine deltour and édouard perrin, who are currently being prosecuted in luxembourg for having revealed the luxleaks scandal. because jean-claude juncker behaved inappropriately in this case within the meaning of the directive.
madam president, this directive is not a good time. no such luck! in the midst of the panama papers, after dieselgate, after luxleaks, the commission can think of nothing better to do than to speed up a text on opacity. i know that the transatlantic treaty is being negotiated and that this is one of the conditions of the treaty being negotiated, but the reality is that, by this text, you are giving a legal basis to opacity and concealment. far from defending smes - because everyone tells us that we are here to defend the know-how of smes or small businesses, which is not true - you will simply be supporting the large companies that want to hide behind opaque walls to carry out their activities. there's nothing to be proud of! voting against this directive is defending freedom of information and whistleblowers against fraud.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the protection of business secrets has been and continues to be very emotional. this is legitimate, because in some member states, in the absence of this directive, whistleblowers are now being prosecuted on the basis of business secrecy. the commission's original proposal was far too vague and therefore far too dangerous. and yet, the fight against industrial espionage is something essential and, contrary to what has been said, it is indispensable for smes, which represent two thirds of the victims. that is why we cannot allow the fight against industrial espionage to be mixed up with freedom of information. the work of our negotiator, sergio cofferati, has allowed us to secure unprecedented protection for journalists, who are excluded from the scope of the directive, and for whistleblowers, who for the first time are recognized as needing protection. and because these are vulnerable audiences, who can be prosecuted for theft, suspicion or defamation, we need to have a directive that protects them. that is why, in addition to this directive on trade secrets, which introduces protection for the first time, the commission must propose a horizontal text to defend them. and we're counting on you.
i'm the reporter. madam president, let us not be naive, let us open our eyes to the world as it is, the context of economic war, of unbridled global competition. europe must protect itself. we have to protect our interests. we must protect european interests, protect our innovations, protect our discoveries, protect our research processes. protecting innovation, research and our discoveries means protecting our jobs, protecting the jobs of europeans. the key word in this business is trust. if we want information and knowledge to circulate within the territory of the european union, outside the territory of the european union, with the rest of the world, if we want trust, we need clear, sound and precise rules, and we need within the european market this common legal basis which can bring stability and security. i am not naive, but i am not confused or mixed up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us not take european enterprises, european work, discoveries and innovations hostage in the name of struggles which are spreading and which are leading us to turn europe into a land which no longer knows where its interests lie and no longer knows how to protect its interests, protect its producers, protect its enterprises, protect its researchers and workers.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would like to thank mr tarand, who was able to listen to the fictitious rapporteurs and who helped the report to go in the right direction. it is true that we have worked in a climate of urgency and mourning over the attacks in brussels to arrive, it must be said, at budgetary estimates for the year 2017 which i think are, at this stage, balanced and reasonable. discussing the bowl and the can is not always a topic of great interest to the masses, but it is still a necessary part of the overall budgetary procedure of the european institutions. as such, we can be pleased to have contained current expenditure to a slight increase of 1.4%, which will have to absorb the entire structural share of the changes indexed to the cost of living, but also the expenditure on multilingualism due to the introduction of the gaelic language, and, of course, the expenditure on security issues. i, for my part, stressed the need for a strict separation between investment and operation. there is no budgetary visibility if we do not distinguish between the two: i believe that there is the current operation, which must be monitored very closely, and the investment, which prepares the future. i believe that this is the spirit in which we will build the budget in the future.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, allow me also to welcome the work done by our rapporteur. it was not an easy job to do. in drawing up this budget, we had a triple requirement. the need to safeguard european democracy, the need to deal with the problem of security and, above all, the need to set an example. as far as exemplary behaviour is concerned, i think we could have done better. i think there are a number of expenses that are not entirely useful. i am thinking in particular of the renewal of the offices of the european parliament. i am also thinking of certain expenditure on transport for members of the european parliament. but the real story is elsewhere. the main thing is the possibility of strengthening the legislative capacity of the european parliament and european democracy. i must say that i do not understand the cuts in interpretation expenditure, when there was unanimity in our team to maintain these appropriations. i also want to say that we have been able to obtain sign language interpretation in this report. this is a positive thing and i hope it will be realized very soon.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the europe 2020 strategy aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty, and its main target is to raise the cost of housing, energy and education. that's good, that's pretty! two lines of work are thus envisaged. first, to promote the increase in the incomes of poor households by encouraging the development of a framework directive on the minimum income, which would be set at national level, above the poverty line, and by strengthening social rights so as to guarantee state aid. secondly, to encourage expenditure reductions by ensuring that the various european funds, such as the esi funds, are better allocated to poor households to combat energy poverty and by encouraging the fiscal shift towards taxing the energy industries to reduce the burden on labour costs. i'm sorry, but i'm here to tell you that you're wrong and that you're dreaming. indeed, poverty will continue to grow as this crisis is nurtured by your austerity and ultra-liberal policies and aggravated by the arrival of migrants. european funds have only a minor impact on the policies undertaken by the member states, and the establishment of a minimum wage or the shift in taxation is clearly a matter for national competence. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr casa, i thank you, but you are part of a group, the epp, which leads me to believe, as we say in france, that 'to climb the coconut tree, you must have clean cocoons'. so i don't think you have any lessons to teach, and i urge you to have the information you have checked out, which unfortunately is wrong.
mr president, the urgency of the untenable situations for millions of europeans who are faced with energy poverty in unhealthy housing or who lack stable resources should be a wake-up call. unfortunately, the proposals put forward do not meet this urgency, which requires us to focus on the priorities and the misery of our fellow citizens, rather than accepting the world's needs without having the means. these proposals are also ill-founded. we are told that minorities are vulnerable subjects on the same level as disability, widowhood or illness, but that they are more concrete, that they have real costs. but what minorities are we talking about? no definition is given, at the risk of misleading the objective of social policy: to protect individuals against social risks. the poverty of single parents also seems to surprise us. the first answer is financial protection, but to say, for example, that working is the only way out of poverty for single mothers is deeply antisocial reasoning. women must be allowed to choose between working life and family life, for example by introducing a parental salary. finally, let us not forget that the breakdown of the family unit is a cause of poverty and social distress. let us stop the libertarian policies proposed by the liberal social ideology that destroys natural solidarities. it is the same machine that allows foreign speculators to inflate the price of real estate and that opens the doors of europe to millions of illegal immigrants, without reducing poverty in our own neighbourhood. let's deal with the causes before we deal with the consequences.
mr president, 120 million europeans are at risk of falling into poverty and 19 million europeans do not have enough to eat. the first tool we have at european level to help these people integrate is the european social fund, which allows for professional integration. that is why, commissioner, when the mid-term review of multiannual policies is carried out, i am counting on your support to increase the share of the cohesion funds allocated to the european social fund from 23% to 25%. it is absolutely essential; it is the first aid we can give to all those people who are at risk of falling into poverty. the second point is to reserve 20% of the european social fund to help the poorest and most deprived. the third point is that we should keep the fund for the poorest, because the heads of state and government were wrong to want to abolish these european policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the months go by, our objectives of reducing poverty and fighting it are getting further and further away from us. what a shame! from 2008 to 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or exclusion in the union increased from 117 million to 123 million, despite the target to reduce it by at least 20 million by 2020. the situation with regard to energy is dramatic. it is estimated that more than 50 million europeans cannot afford to pay their water and electricity bills. to answer this question, yes, we need a european observatory on energy poverty to shed light on the social reality of this invisible suffering of energy poverty. yes, it takes real financial investment to invest in, say, old buildings. this will not only reduce household energy bills, but also reduce greenhouse gases and, to top it all off, create jobs that cannot be relocated. so, commissioner, in a context where energy prices are about to explode, your role is twofold. first, you must encourage member states to define what energy poverty is and thus improve the performance of energy-intensive buildings, with long-term financial levers. the second thing, madam commissioner, is to put in place measures to reduce energy costs for the most vulnerable households.
author. madam president, the attack in a park in lahore left 72 dead, including 29 children, and more than 300 injured. the perpetrators of this horror claimed to target christians, but the victims were mostly muslims. two weeks ago, shiite mosques were targeted. in pakistan, it is an understatement to say that political and religious tensions are high. these tensions are rooted in the dangerous game being played by some gulf countries, but also by the pakistani government, which has supported and even financed terrorist groups that are now largely beyond control. the present awareness is unfortunately accompanied by authoritarian deviations: reintroduction of the death penalty, including for minors, the establishment of special courts, extortions, a law on blasphemy against minorities, but also against progressives and journalists. pakistan's accession to the gsp+ should be a negotiating instrument in the hands of the european union to stop this spiral of repression. more broadly, we know the historical role pakistan has played in destabilising the region. the developments that are taking place can make a difference. the european union can help to make things go in the right direction.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
we shall now proceed to the vote. so i will put the motion for a postponement to the vote... (mr lamberts remarks that he raised his arm in support of the motion and complains that the president did not see it). well, i didn't see you, mr. lamberts, and apparently, no one here did. you have the floor now to defend this proposal.
i suggest that you move to the defence of the amendment (mr lamberts: "excuse me, there is too much noise; i cannot hear you")... well, you'll also buy me a speaker, under the circumstances.
so we have heard one speaker for and one speaker against. we shall put to the vote this proposal to postpone the vote on the report. we therefore vote to postpone the vote. the request for a continuance is denied.
madam president, it seems to me that mr cofferati has made a proposal to the european commission, and i think it would be important for the european commission to be able to give its opinion on this proposal.
i thank you, madam, i take note of your remark; it will be corrected. i think that before the vote mr tarand wanted to speak.
mr tarand, unfortunately i have been informed by the services that the amendment you have tabled is not admissible, since it is out of time under rule 96 (3).
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the data protection package after four years of legislative work. on the one hand, it will protect the personal data of europeans, especially in relation to multinational companies. we have taken care to strengthen the rights of internet users by giving them greater control over their data: the right to erasure, information on how their data is processed, controls on the transfer of data from europeans to third countries, strictly limited possibilities for profiling, sanctions for violators. the reform will give the eu the highest standards of privacy protection in the world, which, given its demographic and economic weight, will influence standards in the rest of the world. secondly, because technology provides new means of surveillance for the police and the judiciary, it was essential to build a foundation of guarantees for the rights and freedoms of citizens, while allowing the security forces to exchange information more quickly and efficiently. we have struck the right balance between protecting the fundamental rights of citizens and enhancing the effectiveness of police and judicial cooperation throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ this codecision report concerns the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the european institutions and bodies and the free movement of such data. it establishes the european data protection supervisor (edps) and lays down the rules to ensure the confidentiality of personal data. i have supported this report because i believe it is essential to ensure that internet users have control over their personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted decisively in favour of this major data protection reform, which allows us to adapt to contemporary digital developments. citizens are publishing more and more personal information and digital companies have started collecting it on a large scale. this meant that the legislation, which had been inadequate since 1995, had to be updated! this reform of european legislation obliges companies to inform their customers in case of data hacking, allows the transfer of data in very limited cases and, above all, establishes a right to be forgotten and a right of citizens to see the information that is collected about them.
in writing. ‒ for the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, it was essential, in order to be able to fight effectively against terrorism and organised crime, that the adoption of the directive on the use of passenger name record data be coupled with the adoption of a package on the protection of personal data. this is what has been done with this regulation, which i voted for, which will protect the data of european citizens, particularly against the misuse that can be made of it by multinationals, but also by governments. the text will now protect their privacy, including through a set of standards that are among the highest in the world: the right to erasure, remedies, information on how data is processed, controls on the transfer of data from europeans to third countries, strictly limited profiling possibilities, or sanctions for non-compliance.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the recommendation of the rapporteur of the green group on data protection. i think that this text is far from perfect, in that it imposes too heavy administrative constraints on european companies, especially small companies in the digital sector, but it does put in place a protective framework for the collection, transfer and exchange of personal data that has no equivalent in the world. i think that there are still considerable legal uncertainties in this regulation and i hope that the member states, when it is applied, will be able to exploit them in the interests of the competitiveness of european companies and european citizens, the one not excluding the other.
in writing. ‒ this data protection reform aims to strengthen citizens' fundamental rights and to facilitate business by simplifying the rules for the digital single market. the regulation has some positive elements (enhanced citizens' rights, equal rules for all businesses, etc.) which will no doubt be highlighted by the media. however, pan-european legislation is a further attack on national sovereignty, which is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of my colleague jan philipp albrecht's report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. this legislation sets up one of the strongest frameworks in the world for the protection of personal data. it will give citizens and consumers greater control over what is done with their personal data. i welcome the adoption of this text which protects our fellow citizens and which i hope will be an example to be followed elsewhere in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this general data protection regulation which, by putting in place a strong protection framework, will allow citizens to have greater control over their personal data. it will standardise the rules across europe by reducing red tape, which will also allow european businesses to be more active in the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ the new european framework for the protection of personal data should give citizens more control over the use of their data, which must be achieved through their consent (for example, by a message appearing on a website warning them that their data may be used) and the possibility to revoke this consent, thus a right to delete this data. it's called the right to be forgotten. any transfer or loss of data by a company (e.g. due to hacking) must also be reported. finally, fines of up to 4% of global turnover will be possible for non-compliance, which can be colossal for companies like google or facebook. i therefore supported the adoption of these new rules, but i regret that they have been used as a bargaining chip after being blocked for four years to get parliament's consent on the pnr dossier. i will continue to monitor the application of these rules to protect the right to privacy, which is threatened by the pnr.
in writing. ‒ the report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data was passed at second reading, so there was no final vote. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the positive aspects of this regulation, which is aimed at improving the protection of personal data and thus the privacy of citizens in france and in europe. i will mention the right of access to personal data, the right to erasure of inaccurate data and the right to be 'digitally forgotten', which protects children in particular. another positive aspect is that companies located outside the european union but offering services within it will be subject to the same rules as european companies. it is important, however, that france and the other member states can bring their own emphases in terms of personal data protection.
in writing. - i abstained. this ratio oscillates between benefits to citizens in the context of the protection of personal data and a breach of national sovereignty in this protective role. this would give citizens a 'digital right to be forgotten', easier access to their data and better knowledge of how it is being used by a third party. as for companies, they will be obliged to apply the same legislation, to unify their rules at european level, as will foreign companies with their headquarters in europe. so while these positive elements are interesting, i cannot support a further attack on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ in early 2012, the commission proposed a reform package comprising a regulation establishing a general eu data protection framework and a directive addressing the processing of personal data for the purpose of fighting crime. by strengthening the right of users to be informed about what is being done with their data, these two texts will give european citizens greater control over their privacy and make them masters of their own data, ensuring that they consent to the processing of their data and guaranteeing them remedies against any misuse of their data. the adoption of these measures will also make them applicable to all undertakings. foreign companies, especially the giants of the digital economy, who want to process the data of european citizens will therefore also have to comply with the new european requirements. this legislative package thus makes it possible to reconcile a high level of protection for citizens with increased fairness of competition in strategic economic sectors. i therefore vote in favour of both texts.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the text proposes the establishment of a single window and european legislation on the processing of personal data. some of the positive aspects are the right to be forgotten for individuals and administrative simplification for companies. however, france already has comprehensive legislation on this matter, which it is not appropriate to interfere with.
in writing. ‒ this regulation replaces the old 1995 directive, which was rendered obsolete by technological developments and was largely ignored by member states, resulting in a lack of protection for citizens. the outcome of the trilogue significantly improves the european commission's proposal by strengthening the parts concerning the right to be forgotten, the right to object and the explicit request for consent from individuals. it also offers guarantees to european residents when their data is transferred to third countries. finally, it contains an important provision for employees, who cannot be put on a 'black list' on the basis of their 'political orientation, trade union affiliation and activities'. the report is moving in the right direction to ensure more protection, i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the regulations are quite good, in a logic of data protection and the right to be forgotten digitally. the rules are intended to apply to individuals and businesses. in short, i think this text is quite good.
in writing. ‒ there are positive elements to this regulation (strengthening of citizens' rights, same rules for all businesses, etc.). however, pan-european legislation is a further attack on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ while the complexity of this text, which contains many legal uncertainties due to vague wording, is regrettable, it is the result of a compromise which was very difficult to reach. the negotiations on this text lasted four years and were prolonged by the attitude of certain political groups, which paralysed the process. i voted in favour of this important text which establishes a legal framework for the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ while the proposed regulation remains complex and presents a number of legal uncertainties, it also proposes the establishment of a robust framework for the protection of personal data. i have approved the second reading, and i am waiting for more clarity at the end of the next negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's vote comes more than four years after work began on a reform of european data protection rules. the message here is very clear: the new provisions are intended to increase the protection of european citizens so that they have control over their personal data. the level of protection must be high and uniform throughout the european union. i therefore voted in favour of new rules which include provisions on the right to be forgotten or the right to transfer your personal data to other service providers.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the new data protection regulation. the regulation harmonises eu legislation and gives individuals greater control over their privacy. europeans now have a stronger right to information and consent when their data is processed, a right to redress in cases of abuse and a right to object to profiling. finally, sensitive data will be better protected. these are measures that will have to be respected by businesses and member states in the european union. the regulation also supports the digital economy by ensuring free and undistorted competition in this sector, which will apply to all companies, including foreign ones. this will allow european companies to compete on equal terms with internet giants such as facebook or google. the text also provides for dissuasive sanctions for companies that do not comply with the rules. finally, this regulation is part of a package on data protection, which was voted on the same day as the pnr, on the initiative of the european socialists and democrats. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the data protection package, which plays a crucial role in the digital strategy for europe, and represents a step forward in reducing the legal uncertainty generated by the fragmentation that characterises the implementation of personal data protection in the union. we as members of parliament also stressed the need to reduce the administrative burden, to further harmonise the application of data protection rules, to improve the efficiency of their control and their transparency. we can only regret that this data protection package was not voted on at the same time as the pnr directive, as my group in parliament had originally wanted. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting this package, which will strengthen the protection of european citizens' data, especially in the digital world. this revision of the general framework for the protection of personal data makes users masters of their data by strengthening the right to information on what is done with data, by improving consent procedures and redress routes. the new regulation also improves data portability and guarantees the right to object to profiling as well as additional protection against the use of sensitive data. with this new regulation, the giants of the internet, even if they are located outside the european union, will have to apply our rules. this is a major step forward for the citizens. the package also contains elements relating to the fight against crime. in this context, data will be processed in a very controlled manner in order to avoid any misuse by the services concerned. finally, national data protection authorities are to be strengthened and made more independent so that they can enforce the rules effectively.
in writing. ‒ after five years of negotiations, this report on the protection of personal data was finally adopted, despite the reluctance of the states. the reform will replace the current 1995 data protection directive with a general regulation to strengthen and adapt data protection. this report is the fruit of a long battle waged by the european parliament. it will, in particular, strengthen the participation of individuals in the protection of their own data, clarify definitions and provide greater legal certainty. the powers and functions of the supervisory and data protection authorities are also strengthened. this regulation also emphasises the application of the principles of necessity and proportionality in the transfer of personal data. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this codecision report makes legal proposals to strengthen the protection of personal data within the union, particularly when used to fight crime. it also aims to build trust between law enforcement agencies so that they can exchange personal data in their possession to fight crime. i also believe that there is a need for strict standards on the use of data for police and judicial purposes and that the rights of citizens in this respect must be respected. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted decisively in favour of this major data protection reform, which allows us to adapt to contemporary digital developments. citizens are publishing more and more personal information and digital companies have started collecting it on a large scale. this meant that the legislation, which had been inadequate since 1995, had to be updated! this reform of european legislation obliges companies to inform their customers in case of data hacking, allows the transfer of data in very limited cases and, above all, establishes a right to be forgotten and a right of citizens to see the information that is collected about them.
in writing. ‒ this directive establishes a framework of guarantees for the rights and freedoms of citizens, while modern technologies now allow the use of advanced means of surveillance of the population by the police and the judiciary in order to ensure their safety, in the context of the terrorist threat that we know. while it is important to be able to prevent attacks and crime by strengthening police and judicial cooperation within the european union, it is also essential to protect the fundamental rights of citizens in parallel. failure to protect the data of suspects, witnesses or victims may threaten their security, their right to privacy or to a fair trial. that is why i voted for this package of laws and measures that regulate access to this data by security forces, while harmonizing the processes for processing and transferring this data between the 28 countries of the european union for an easier exchange of information, in order to counter cross-border criminal initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the rapporteur's recommendation on the proposal for a directive on sovereign files, which complements existing national rules on the processing of data for criminal purposes. this directive lays down minimum rules on data protection other than those covered by the regulation, which deals with commercial uses. the text provides a framework for the processing of data used in the context of police and judicial activities and which may be useful for investigations and prosecutions. i believe that if the first version was unacceptable because it did not respect the essential balance between the protection of personal data and their necessary use for security purposes, the version at second reading, which is the result of an agreement with the member states, seems to me to be much more balanced, in that it corrects the risks to the operational capabilities of the law enforcement agencies.
in writing. ‒ this directive guarantees the protection of personal data of persons involved in criminal proceedings, whether as witnesses, victims or suspects. it will also facilitate the exchange of information between national police and judicial authorities. the directive also provides clear rules for the transfer of personal data by law enforcement agencies outside the european union. on the one hand, this directive is designed to protect personal data; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. so, another attack on national sovereignty. i therefore naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report by my colleague marju lauristin on the protection of natural persons for the prevention of criminal offences. the report is a directive on the processing of personal data for preventive security purposes. i support this proposal, which aims to protect the freedoms and fundamental rights of natural persons, and in particular their right to the protection of personal data, and which guarantees the free exchange of personal data by the competent authorities within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this data processing directive, which complements and harmonises national rules on the processing of data for criminal purposes in order to facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information between police and judicial authorities.
in writing. ‒ the report on the protection of natural persons for the purpose of preventing criminal offences was passed at second reading, so there was no final vote. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize certain aspects of this directive. it guarantees the protection of personal data in criminal proceedings, both for witnesses and victims and for suspects. it prohibits, in particular, 'profiling', which may make any targeted approach to the fight against islamist terrorism more difficult. i am also opposed to any further steps towards the establishment of a european police and penal system, which is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ the text under vote guarantees the protection of personal data of individuals involved in criminal proceedings, whether they are witnesses, victims or suspects. it also facilitates the exchange of information between national police and judicial authorities and provides for the harmonisation of 28 national data protection laws. this would improve the protection of personal data and ensure that they are processed fairly and lawfully for a specific purpose, which would be controlled by independent national authorities. the commission, while promising us better protection of personal data and respect for fundamental freedoms, is undermining national sovereignty, because the police and criminal justice system is fundamentally a sovereign right. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in early 2012, the commission proposed a reform package comprising a regulation establishing a general eu data protection framework and a directive addressing the processing of personal data for the purpose of fighting crime. by strengthening the right of users to be informed about what is being done with their data, these two texts will give european citizens greater control over their privacy and make them masters of their own data, ensuring that they consent to the processing of their data and guaranteeing them remedies against any misuse of their data. the adoption of these measures will also make them applicable to all undertakings. foreign companies, especially the giants of the digital economy, who want to process the data of european citizens will therefore also have to comply with the new european requirements. this legislative package thus makes it possible to reconcile a high level of protection for citizens with increased fairness of competition in strategic economic sectors. i therefore vote in favour of both texts.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the directive guarantees the protection of personal data of persons involved in criminal proceedings and facilitates the exchange of information between european police and judicial authorities. once again, this is an infringement of the sovereignty of the member states which must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the protection of personal data is accompanied by a directive specifically concerning the processing of such data in law enforcement and criminal law. the outcome of the trilogue significantly improves the commission's proposal, particularly as regards the conditions for using data (retention period, transparency) and profiling. some aspects are still unclear, notably the question of the transfer of information to third countries. nevertheless, this proposal represents a real improvement in the protection of personal data in the criminal field. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the guarantee that this directive offers for the protection of data in criminal proceedings extends from the victim to the witness and the suspect. it is true that banning the profiling of individuals on ethnicity, religion and political opinion can be damaging in the fight against islamist terrorism. it prevents targeted surveillance, which would be more effective. i am therefore not in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this directive is designed to protect personal data, but it is a new step in the establishment of a european police and criminal justice system, which is still a matter for the member states. so this is another attack on national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a directive on the processing of personal data for the prevention of crime. the european parliament has also called for the adoption of a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens and the dangers of carcinogens in the environment.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the processing of personal data must strike a balance between the protection of personal data and their use for security purposes. at the end of the first reading, the directive did not meet this essential balance. on the other hand, the negotiations at second reading have brought about a rebalancing which i consider acceptable. i therefore approved the referral back.
in writing. ‒ a directive on the processing of personal data for crime prevention purposes is included in the data protection package. recent terrorist incidents have shown that some member states are reluctant to share information which is sometimes necessary in the fight against crime and terrorism. i therefore supported this text which will allow national authorities to exchange personal data, while respecting the fundamental right to privacy.
in writing. ‒ as the second part of the data protection package, which plays a crucial role in the digital strategy for europe, this text is a step forward in the fight against terrorism at european level. while we can be satisfied with this progress, i regret the lack of compulsory information sharing between national services. therefore, in line with the alde group's policy, we will continue to support the mandatory sharing of information between member states and will make proposals to improve europol so that it acquires a european investigation capacity. we can only regret that this data protection package was not voted on at the same time as the pnr directive, as my group in parliament had originally wanted. i have voted in favour of this text, since it is nevertheless a positive first step towards greater european integration on the question of security.
in writing. ‒ i had already voted in favour of this directive on data protection in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. as with the general data protection regulation, the aim is to modernise and strengthen the system by allowing exchanges between the different competent authorities of the member states in criminal matters in a more harmonised and coherent system and by subjecting those responsible for processing such data to more stringent obligations. the powers of supervision and control over the application of the rules on the protection of personal data will remain with each member state. theoretically, data transfer should be strictly limited and should not become frequent and massive. the risk of profiling is also strictly controlled. i voted for this directive because it allows for a minimum of supervision. i remain, however, rather sceptical about its actual implementation in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed the text on the creation of a european pnr. the aim of the directive is to collect the personal data of all air passengers entering or leaving the union. the national front's position is very clear: this project represents a serious attack on the freedom of european travellers and would prove ineffective in the fight against terrorism. the attacks in paris and brussels, for example, could not have been prevented by such a device. moreover, some, such as the united kingdom, rightly fear that some government officials are not trustworthy and may leak information that could facilitate further attacks. finally, under the guise of fighting terrorism, the pnr is more like an aerial extension of the schengen area and represents a new attack on the sovereignty of states. the pnr is intended to be shared with the united states, without any reciprocity... france, for example, has already had its own pnr since 2006. the european parliament has voted against the draft law on mass surveillance, the threat to national security and the infringement of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the pnr is welcome, but it is far from being the answer to terrorism. when we know that the british intelligence services were aware of possible attacks in madrid, that the french police were on the trail of the terrorists in london, that weapons used in the paris attacks were purchased in germany or that the swedish intelligence services refused to share information relating to one of the terrorists in the brussels attacks, we are entitled to question the cooperation between the member states within the european union. it is clear that defending our national attributes does not save lives, quite the contrary. in an open space, it is a european intelligence service that we need. it is essential to extend europol's powers and to create a european public prosecutor to combat cross-border criminal activities. we will fight terrorism effectively with more europe. the control of the movement of firearms, the drying up of sources of funding, the prevention of radicalisation are all challenges we must address together if we are to make europe an area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ to combat the terrorist threat, europe needs to have a single pnr (european air passenger register). however, this resolution does not create a centralised european system, but the addition of 28 national pnrs, with the possibility, voluntarily but not automatically, of feeding a centralised information system. that is why i voted in favour of an amendment calling for the centralisation of information and the compulsory sharing of data to avoid the creation of 28 national pnrs. unfortunately, he was not retained. i therefore consider this draft pnr to be unsatisfactory, but essential, and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
in writing. ‒ the front national is hostile to the european pnr, which aims to collect the personal data of every air passenger entering or leaving the european area in order to fight against terrorism and serious crime for three reasons: it is liberticidal because it infringes on the privacy of passengers, collecting information on their religious affiliation or their health status; it is also ineffective and aims more at extending the schengen area at air level especially since france already has its national pnr than at fighting terrorism, which would be done more effectively by focusing on close surveillance of suspects with an 's' card; finally, it undermines national security by allowing other european countries, some of which are self-confessedly unreliable, such as the united kingdom, to access information on passengers entering or leaving french territory. so i turned down this whole cop-out project.
in writing. ‒ the european pnr aims to collect the personal data of all passengers on aircraft entering or leaving the european area. the data are: identity of the passenger and accompanying persons, itinerary, travel agency, means of payment, special requests on the meal for example. however, i am hostile to the pnr. firstly, the european pnr is liberticidal because it seriously infringes the privacy of passengers (the information will be kept for 5 years). secondly, the european pnr is ineffective because it does not make it possible to combat terrorism effectively. neither the paris nor brussels bombings would have been avoided if he had existed. terrorists don't usually fly directly from one country to the other to get to the exit of a plane at a bombing site... it would be more useful to give priority to targeted surveillance of terrorists and s-listed suspects for example. finally, the european pnr undermines national sovereignty as it aims to save the schengen area by creating a sort of schengen airspace. the european pnr is also intended to be disclosed to the united states, which will not in turn disclose its us pnr to the eu. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the pnr is a tool that is freedom-threatening, ineffective, undermines national sovereignty and can threaten our security. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed this report which aims to create a european passenger name record (pnr). the aim is to collect the personal data of all air passengers entering or leaving the european union. this project seriously undermines the freedom of european travellers and would prove to be absolutely ineffective in the fight against terrorism. the attacks in paris and brussels, for example, could not have been prevented by such a device. moreover, some member states, such as the united kingdom, are rightly concerned that certain state officials are not reliable and may disclose information that could facilitate the planning of further attacks. finally, under the guise of fighting terrorism, the pnr is more like the air expansion of the schengen area, which represents a new attack on the sovereignty of states. without any reciprocity, the european pnr will indeed be shared with the united states. france, for example, has already had its own pnr since 2006. mass surveillance, danger to national security, infringement of the sovereignty of states: for all these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the pnr has finally been approved by our assembly after five years of blocking in the european parliament. we have been asking for months for an acceleration of the timetable for the adoption of this report. the left-wing groups have done everything possible to delay the implementation of the pnr directive. the pnr (passenger name record) will allow the identity of air passengers entering or leaving the european area to be identified so that law enforcement authorities can make good use of this data. it's a way to detect foreign fighters, for example. this instrument will enable the authorities to combat terrorism more effectively. we cannot accept to suffer attacks like those in paris and brussels and do nothing. i voted in favour of the pnr directive, of course.
in writing. ‒ after eight years of interinstitutional deadlock, the european parliament has finally adopted the european pnr directive. i'm very pleased. the european pnr is certainly not a miracle solution, but its implementation will undoubtedly contribute to the fight against terrorism. access to information provided by passengers to airlines will allow our authorities to better monitor members of terrorist groups, but most importantly to identify members unknown to our services. i particularly welcome the fact that the directive can apply to intra-eu flights (i.e. from one member state to another) and not just to flights from third countries. the new rules also provide for safeguards to protect personal data: beyond six months, passengers' identities will be hidden and can only be known by a court order. in addition, the european pnr is a corollary to the data protection directive, which will protect the privacy of all citizens. however, i regret that the exchange of information between member states is not compulsory. the two-year transposition period into national law seems to me to be a long one, given the imminent danger posed by terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the use of passenger name record (pnr) data. the purpose of pnr data is to combat serious crime and terrorism. this report introduces an obligation for air carriers to provide member states with passenger data on flights to or from the territory of the union. at the same time, we have measures in place to ensure the protection of privacy and personal data. the report also lays down common rules for the establishment of national pnr systems by the member states of the union. i believe that these measures are necessary to make the fight against terrorism more effective, and i regret that a left-wing coalition has opposed the report for so long, despite the attacks and the high terrorist threat, particularly in france and belgium. i would like to remind you that pnr data may not be used for any purpose other than the fight against serious crime and terrorist offences. considering that the fight against terrorism requires quality work in terms of information and identification of individuals at risk, i supported this report.
in writing. finally, after years of negotiations and political deadlock, the report on the use of passenger name record data, the european pnr, was adopted by the european parliament. for years my group and i have been fighting for the adoption of this instrument, which is essential in the fight against terrorism in europe. the european pnr will enhance the security of european citizens by allowing the detection of suspected or monitored persons travelling by air. i'm sorry that so much time has been wasted. however, this instrument will not be sufficient to deal with the threat posed by foreign fighters in our territory. the european union must now continue to work to strengthen its arsenal in the fight against terrorism and the prevention of radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that the pnr directive has finally been adopted. it is a necessary tool for our intelligence and security services to collect and process information useful in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this is a necessary step in the fight against terrorism. the union's response to this threat must be a firm one within the natural framework of our rule of law. the pnr can and should be improved. it is not yet a european pnr, but 28 national pnrs whose interconnection has yet to be organised. although this legislation provides for the possibility for several states to pool their data collection and processing unit, a european pnr and a mandatory exchange of data between states will have to be achieved. the pnr can and should be complemented by other measures, including the strengthening of europol and eurojust, the creation of a european prosecutor, the introduction of systematic controls at schengen borders, the harmonisation of terrorist offences and the creation of a foreign fighters file. parliament must continue to assume its responsibilities under the treaty if europe is to have the means to combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ after five years of blocking by left-wing groups, the directive on the european pnr - the system for recording air passenger data - has finally been adopted. the pnr will complement the european arsenal in the fight against terrorism. it will, for example, enable the detection of the movements of dangerous or monitored individuals. this information could have been valuable in preventing the attacks that have struck france and belgium in recent months. however, i would like to reassure those who fear that their data will be collected en masse, we have put in place safeguards to ensure the protection of this data, such as the appointment of an officer to verify the legality of the collection in each national unit or the limitation of the retention periods. i welcome the selflessness with which our political group has succeeded in getting this directive, which is essential in the fight against those who threaten our freedoms, passed. finally, i would like to emphasize the irresponsible attitude of the left-wing groups, who, by means of low political maneuvers, have only delayed the adoption of this directive, which is unanimously considered essential to the protection of our security.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a european pnr directive has been on the table since 2011. it provides for the transfer and processing of air passenger data (date of travel, route, contact details, eating habits, etc.) for the purpose of combating terrorism and organised crime. the european nrp will strengthen the range of measures available to the european union to combat terrorism, but it is not the only tool in this fight, which is primarily about preventing radicalisation, controlling the movement of firearms, stopping the sources of terrorist financing and improving cooperation between intelligence, police and judicial services. we also wanted to link the question of pnr to that of the protection of personal data. responsible governance means striking the right balance, in this case, between protecting individual freedoms, fighting terrorism and ensuring the safety of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european pnr aims to collect the personal data of all passengers on aircraft entering or leaving the european area. not only does it infringe on passengers' privacy, providing more or less reliable european states with very personal information (religion, health, etc.), but it is also clearly ineffective against today's terrorists. on the contrary, it may threaten the national security of states. worse, it is intended to be communicated to the united states, which is unacceptable, since it is not reciprocal. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it seriously infringes the privacy of passengers, does not allow a real fight against terrorism and undermines national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the fight against terrorism is a huge and complex challenge facing the eu as a whole and requiring a common response from all its member states. in this context, the adoption of the european pnr is positive in that it will strengthen the range of measures available to the eu. that said, let us be clear: the current situation will not be solved overnight by the adoption of the pnr, a measure that is certainly welcome but which is far from being the miracle solution. it is not enough to collect as much data as possible, but it is also necessary to know how to exchange and process it in an efficient and relevant way. the real added value of the european pnr will depend in particular on the ability of the member states to enhance the quality of their cooperation. we must rethink our action in a global and coherent way. the control of the movement of firearms, the drying up of the sources of financing of terrorism, the prevention of radicalisation are all tasks which also call for a real mobilization.
in writing. ‒ i am relieved that the european pnr directive has finally been adopted after more than five years of blockage by the left, which deliberately paralysed the work for purely ideological reasons. for those who fear mass collection of their data, i will tell them that precautions have been taken to ensure data protection, such as the appointment of an officer to verify the legality of the collection in each national unit and limited retention periods. i regret, however, the deliberate obstruction of some members who, to the end, tried to block the adoption of this text with fallacious arguments. how can we say, for example, that the pnr would not have prevented the attacks in paris and brussels, when the system does not exist? how can we explain that this system - so flawed - that was introduced in the united states after the terrorist attacks of 2001 is being replicated all over the world? our priority must be to fight those who threaten our freedoms. freedom can only be real in a world where there is sufficient security to express one's opinions and disagreements.
in writing. ‒ once collected by airlines for the purpose of booking flights, they are communicated to the european state concerned, which centralises them and then passes them on to the other partner states, whether in the eu or outside, who request them. the european pnr is officially justified by the need to combat terrorism and certain serious crimes (trafficking in human beings, participation in a criminal organisation, cybercrime, child pornography, trafficking in weapons or explosives). the european pnr also threatens national security by allowing european states to access information on passengers entering or leaving france. the european pnr is also intended to be disclosed to the united states, which will not in turn disclose its pnr to the european union. it is obvious that such cooperation without reciprocity is unacceptable, since it is more akin to feudalism than to genuine international cooperation. this confirms that the european union is more at the service of the united states and the pro-american lobbies than at the service of the peoples of europe. it is logical that i should have voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr kirkhope on the use of passenger name record data (eu-pnr). after years of ideological and populist blockade by the left and the far right, i can only rejoice in the success of this vote and grieve that it took the left so much time and drama to discover the meaning of the word "responsibility". the pnr is not a panacea, but it is an indispensable tool in the fight against terrorism, which has hit europe and france hard in recent years. while we already exchange pnr data with the united states and canada, it was incomprehensible that europe did not use this data for its own protection. the necessary arrangements have been made to protect the privacy of citizens and member states will have to take their common interest seriously and effectively share important information with each other. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european pnr, which is intended to allow passengers to be traced in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. if this tool is not to be the alpha and omega of the fight against terrorism in europe, it is necessary. i am sorry that we have wasted so much time on the pnr vote because of the blockage from some on the left.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european passenger name record (pnr), a platform for the exchange of air passenger data files at european level, which we, the republican meps, have always defended in order to strengthen the means at the disposal of the european union in the fight against terrorism. this project, which has been on the table since 2011, has been blocked for far too long by the left, the liberals and the far right, who demanded the simultaneous adoption of guarantees on the protection of personal data. the insistence of the epp group has helped to speed up awareness and therefore the decision to vote. this european pnr will now enable the authorities of the member states to detect suspicious movements of tracked and dangerous individuals.
in writing. ‒ the european passenger name recording (pnr) is a vast system of recording all passengers flying in europe, regardless of their destination: all passengers on all european flights will be recorded, and their data will be recorded for 5 years! our concerns about the proportionality of the means (tracking our movements), about the objectives (the fight against terrorism) that allow fundamental rights to be circumvented, and our reminders of the repeated judgments of the eu court of justice against such tools, have been ignored. it would have been possible to develop a more balanced system by targeting thefts and persons at risk, rather than entering into a "all suspects" logic based on a mass file. i would add that the investigations into the tragic events in paris and brussels show that data collection is not a problem: what is lacking is a better sharing of this data between european services. i therefore opposed this text and regret all the more that the emotion created by tragic events was used to facilitate its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european pnr, which aims to collect the personal data of all air passengers entering or leaving the european area. this system seriously infringes the privacy of passengers. european states will know their movements, the identity of their accompanying persons and even very personal information relating to their religious affiliation and health status (revealed by special requests related to illness or disability). as in george orwell's novel of anticipation, 1984, a 'big brother' is thus set up at european level to systematically spy on citizens' private lives. the pnr is also ineffective, because it does not make it possible to combat terrorism effectively. neither the paris nor brussels bombings would have been avoided if he had existed. instead of wasting time on the filing and monitoring of hundreds of millions of passengers, of whom we know that at least 99% are innocent, it would be better to focus on targeted surveillance of potential terrorists. the pnr undermines national sovereignty, as it aims to save the schengen area by creating a sort of schengen airspace.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it decides to create the european nrp under the pretext of fighting terrorism. this is a particularly shocking mass data breach because: 1) it infringes the freedom and privacy of hundreds of millions of air passengers who have nothing to do with terrorism; 2) it will be ineffective because it will cost a billion euros which would have been better spent on our intelligence services to identify terrorists and real suspects;3) it is a new attack on france's sovereignty by trying to save the schengen area by giving it a kind of air expansion.
in writing. ‒ the european pnr is a tool to collect the personal data of all passengers on aircraft entering or leaving the european union. these include specific details such as the identity of each passenger, the travel agency, the itinerary, the means of payment, and any special requests related to meals or health. already held by airlines, they will be shared with the european state which will forward them to any partner state of the european union or not, including the united states, which will benefit from this information without providing their national pnr. this is a liberty-killing text, which complacently violates the fundamental right of every human being to privacy and in so doing turns passengers into orwellian puppets to be manipulated by the "big brother". but he's also wasting his time watching passengers who are 99 percent innocent, instead of focusing on the real criminals on the s-files. finally, it creates a new zone without borders, by establishing an airspace schengen which further threatens the security of states. for all these outrageous reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a european pnr directive has been on the table since 2011. it provides for the transfer and processing of air passenger data (date of travel, route, contact details, eating habits, etc.) for the purpose of combating terrorism and organised crime. this directive will strengthen the range of measures already available to the european union to combat terrorism. it should thus help to identify new suspects previously unknown to the european authorities and to trace their movements more easily. the directive will therefore enable the eu to have an effective and operational tool, but also a fair and proportionate one, which ensures the right balance between the fight against terrorism and the protection of individual freedoms. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the european pnr is intended to collect and store personal data of passengers transiting through european airspace. the system is particularly ineffective, since it would be better to target precise and specific surveillance on "s-files" and other persons followed by the intelligence services. more seriously, the pnr is even a threat to national sovereignty, since any authorized institution of a european state will have access to the data of passengers in transit on our territory. it should also be noted that the united states will be able to access the pnr, whereas the reverse is not true. the european pnr is primarily aimed at saving the schengen area, in vain attempts to demonstrate its usefulness. but the pnr is all the more questionable since france already has its own system, since the law of 23 january 2006.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on the creation of a european passenger name record (pnr) was adopted by the european parliament through the kirkhope report. the pnr file, together with two texts designed to protect the personal data of european citizens, will be an additional tool in the fight against terrorism. the principle is simple: air carriers will gather passenger data in the european pnr file, which will be analysed by the member states' passenger information units. these units will also have to implement strong privacy safeguards. however, contrary to what many would like to believe, it is important to remember that the pnr is by no means a miracle cure. moreover, the pnr alone would not have prevented the attacks in paris or brussels. the real key lies in the processing of the data contained in the pnr file. in this respect, now that they have multiple instruments, european states have a responsibility to invest massively in human and financial intelligence resources and, above all, to exchange information.
in writing. ‒ passenger name record (pnr) data is the information provided by air passengers when booking their tickets, which is available to air carriers: dates of travel, route, contact details, means of payment, etc. the directive requires air carriers to provide all pnr data to law enforcement agencies. it should be noted that advanced passenger information (api) data, which is biographical information extracted from the machine-readable part of a passport, is already being transmitted to the authorities responsible for carrying out border checks and that many other european databases allow the identification and arrest of individuals: sis ii, ecris, sie, vis, etc. the new directive is therefore just one more step in the process, at a considerable cost (€1 billion) and without any guarantee that it will be more effective. on the contrary, the exponential increase in the amount of data to be processed only makes it more difficult to identify people who are suspected of being dangerous. anyway, terrorists don't fly, or fly under a false name. in fact, this directive will only serve to monitor and impede the movement of citizens a little more. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the pnr is a measure which seems to us to be rather ineffective in the schengen area. it is above all an invasion of privacy and allows for the overall surveillance of citizens. i believe that if there is to be surveillance, it must be targeted to be both legitimate and effective. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the european pnr is to collect personal data of air passengers entering or leaving the european area: identities, itineraries, travel agencies, means of payment, baggage information and specifics related to meals and health. officially, this massive data collection is to help fight terrorism and certain serious crimes. however, we are very hostile to the pnr for three reasons. firstly, it is a freedom killer because it seriously infringes the privacy of passengers by transmitting to the states a very large amount of private information which will be kept for five years. secondly, it is ineffective and the perpetrators of the latest attacks could not have been detected with this tool. rather than monitoring passengers, almost all of whom are innocent, it would be better to exploit the many intelligence tools that already exist and that could be very effective. thirdly, it is a nuisance to national sovereignty because its disguised aim is to save the schengen area by creating an 'air schengen'. we are radically opposed to this ineffective and freedom-threatening initiative.
in writing. ‒ the european pnr is a freedom killer because it seriously infringes the privacy of passengers. it is also ineffective because it does not make it possible to combat terrorism effectively. the european pnr also undermines national sovereignty, as it aims to save the schengen area by creating a sort of schengen airspace. finally, the european pnr is intended to be disclosed to the united states, whereas the latter will not in turn disclose their us pnr to the european union. it is obvious that such cooperation without reciprocity is unacceptable, since it is more akin to feudalism than to genuine international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ after the terrible attacks in the european union, including those in paris in 2015 and brussels in 2016, and after long and difficult negotiations, hampered in particular by socialist and green mps, but also by the front national mps, the european parliament finally voted on the passenger name record. the pnr requires air carriers to communicate passenger data, including name, address, travel dates and itineraries, and identity card numbers to the european states concerned by a flight to or from a state which is not a member state of the european union. this tool is essential in the fight against terrorism. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the passenger name record report. so much time has been lost because of the blocking of this text by the left and the far right in the european parliament. from the outset, the french epp delegation and the epp group wanted to make rapid progress on this vital issue, and we were the driving force behind it, as was our duty towards the citizens. it is one more step in our daily struggle against barbarism and terrorism. it is more than outrageous that we have waited for the worst to happen before the left finally took up its responsibilities in terms of protecting citizens. today we have taken a big step forward in protecting europeans, but member states must now transpose this text into their national legislation as quickly as possible if it is to be truly effective.
in writing. ‒ after five years of waiting for some political groups in the european parliament to stop blocking the introduction of the passenger name record (pnr), we have finally voted on the text that will strengthen the security of european citizens. in the current context, enhanced security measures are essential, and the pnr will facilitate the task of intelligence agencies in identifying and assessing threats. however, the nrp is not a panacea and we must be careful not to slacken our efforts. while its adoption puts us on the right track, cooperation between member states on intelligence matters remains essential and eu action cannot replace it. we now rely on the member states to implement the pnr directive as quickly as possible and to ensure the best possible security throughout the european union.
in writing. i voted against this report which aimed to adopt a proposal for a directive on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention and detection of terrorist offences and serious crime, also known as the pnr directive. this mechanism for the use of personal data, already in place in a number of member states, has not proved effective in the fight against terrorism and seriously undermines the protection of personal data and the privacy of european citizens. this directive directly contradicts a recent ruling by the court of justice of the european union which ruled on the mass collection of data targeting certain sections of the population, as is the case with the pnr. this new regulation is disproportionate and in breach of the european charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the vote in favour of the european directive on the use of passenger name records (pnr) was a foregone conclusion. this new instrument, whose adoption has been blocked for so many years by the left and the far right, will be part of the arsenal of instruments europe needs in the fight against terrorism. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances. it is now up to the eu member states to implement the european pnr as soon as possible.
in writing. the european pnr strengthens the eu's toolbox in the fight against terrorism. i am in favour of this new instrument which will help to identify people suspected of having links with terrorist groups and to track their movements more easily. the european socialists have provided strong guarantees for the protection of personal data and the respect of fundamental rights. we felt that this was a necessary condition for making this tool fair and proportionate. we have also always insisted that the pnr should be voted on together with the data protection package. that is what has been done today, and we welcome that. the implementation of the pnr will also need to be closely monitored, both in relation to the results achieved and to the requirement to respect individual freedoms. the ball is now in the court of the member states, which must transpose this directive as soon as possible. the nrp will only be fully effective if the latter agree to work together and improve the quality of their cooperation. finally, it is only one element of the union's counter-terrorism strategy, which must be tackled in a comprehensive and common way.
in writing. ‒ after much debate, parliament finally adopted the passenger name record (pnr) directive, which has become all the more necessary in the light of recent developments. this directive is central to enhancing passenger safety, particularly in the prevention and detection of terrorist attacks or serious crime, thus ensuring a safer common area. while we can welcome the positive signal of this vote, i regret the role played by the member states in this matter, which have considerably reduced the european scope and coordination of the pnr. three shortcomings in particular: firstly, rather than creating a single european file, as parliament wanted, which would gather data on all passengers, the member states opted instead for 28 national files, 28 'silos' of pnrs; secondly, the exchange of data and information is not automatic but at the discretion of states; thirdly, the legislative scope of the text leaves the door open to possible differences in application, since it is a directive and not a regulation. despite these shortcomings, this report is a step forward for security in europe and will hopefully serve as a starting point for further european integration on the subject in the future. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this directive on passenger data. the commission has also proposed to amend the directive to allow the collection, processing and exchange of air passenger data for the purpose of combating terrorism and organised crime. after lengthy negotiations, the socialists and democrats succeeded in amending the text so that this tool is effective but proportionate. we have obtained strong guarantees in terms of the protection of personal data and respect for fundamental rights. the rules for the european pnr will have to be aligned with the rules of the european data protection package. the results of the processing of relevant pnr data will now be shared between member states to ensure greater security for european citizens in the face of the serious terrorist risk we face today. this is therefore a welcome step, but it will not be enough and the union will have to equip itself with a more complete arsenal to combat this threat.
in writing. ‒ after five years of waiting, the european parliament has finally adopted the directive on the use of passenger name record data, the european pnr directive. the pnr has its place in the legal arsenal which our democracies must have at their disposal in order to combat terrorism. this instrument will make it possible to create a european air passenger data register. in practice, when a citizen buys a plane ticket, he provides a set of personal data, namely: name, surname, date of birth, address, etc. the pnr will thus be a database containing the data of millions of citizens. the competent authorities of the european states will then be able to analyse this database and use it to identify potentially dangerous individuals and to detect their movements. it should also be noted that this data may only be used for the prevention, detection, examination and prosecution of investigations related to the fight against terrorism or serious transnational crime. no one can reasonably claim that the pnr alone will eliminate the terrorist threat, but its rapid implementation will make a real contribution to this.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a european pnr (passenger name record) will provide the union with a new tool in the fight against terrorism. the european pnr should allow for better identification of persons suspected of having links with terrorist groups and better tracking of their movements. this is not without danger to liberties. the european parliament and the socialists have therefore demanded that this text on pnr be voted on at the same time as a legislative package on the protection of personal data. we are thus guaranteeing a framework of safeguards for the rights and freedoms of citizens in the context of new technologies by creating an obligation to delete information and a limitation on the transfer of data with possible sanctions in case of abuse. while enabling security forces to exchange information more quickly and efficiently, we are also providing the european union with the highest standards of privacy protection in the world. we are thus determining a new balance between freedom and security, one that is demanding and adapted to the world of the 21st century. but we'll have to evaluate these arrangements. big brother is on the lookout.
in writing. ‒ the european pnr aims to collect the personal data of all air passengers entering or leaving the european area. they will be communicated to the european state concerned, which will centralise them and then pass them on to the other partner states, whether in the eu or outside, who request them. this text is bad for three reasons: - the european pnr is liberticidal because it seriously infringes the respect for the privacy of passengers; - the european pnr is ineffective because it does not make it possible to really fight terrorism; - the european pnr infringes national sovereignty because it aims, as has just been explained, to save the schengen area by creating a kind of schengen airspace. i was firmly opposed to the adoption of the text.
in writing. ‒ the passenger name record (pnr) directive will oblige airlines to provide national authorities with passengers' personal data (identity, means of payment, full itinerary, loyal passenger, baggage, code sharing, etc.) for all flights from a third country to the european union and vice versa. a first draft was rejected in committee in 2013. but after the paris attacks, the case was put back on the table under pressure from the french government on the grounds that the pnr would have helped arrest the perpetrators of the attacks. it's not true and it's a lie. the pnr only harmonises national pnrs and therefore does not oblige states to share data. the perpetrators of the bombings traveled by train or car and were known to the police. the pnr would have done nothing to stop them from acting. it is, however, a freedom killer, and with data retention times too long, we will never be safe from the misuse of this mass collection of data that serves no purpose. it is a personalised targeting that is needed and human resources to analyse them, not to mention the indispensable police cooperation under judicial control. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ despite the work of amendments and improvements to the text carried out by my socialist colleagues, i have decided not to take part in the vote on this directive. in view of the stakes, i felt it was necessary to strengthen this legislative proposal even further. and the panama papers revelations have only reinforced my analysis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of whistleblowers, which would have required a specific text on whistleblowers. today, only five member states have specific legislation on whistleblower protection; the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment. i have therefore asked for the text to be referred to a parliamentary committee and for its vote to be postponed, in order to make its approval conditional on the approval of a specific text on whistleblowers, for the sake of balance, as we did when voting simultaneously on the pnr directive and the personal data package. as i was not successful, i decided firmly not to take part in the final vote on the directive on business secrecy, even though i supported all the amendments improving the european commission's initial proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, negotiated by my colleague jean-marie cavada, a former investigative journalist, because it improves the protection of whistleblowers, while allowing european economic actors to enjoy a stable and single regulatory framework. confidentiality is an essential component of the business world. many economic players, from large pharmaceutical companies to small local producers, have to protect their trade secrets, their plans and designs, their copyrights, their strategy. however, an employee who decides to appropriate his employer's trade secret for personal profit is causing damage that can lead to the closure of the company and the destruction of jobs. the recent revelations, the panama papers, luxleaks and others, highlight the need for convergence in tax, social and regulatory matters. this is the direction to follow if europe is to become a world power in the age of globalisation and regain its place in history.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive to protect the business secrets of european companies, especially smes, against economic espionage. this protection is a major concern of businesses. the directive provides for such protection by entrusting the judicial authorities of the member states with the task of taking measures to prevent the unlawful disclosure of a trade secret. the directive also guarantees freedom of the press and whistleblowers where the disclosure of business secrets is in the public interest and does not in any way impede the free movement of workers between companies. finally, the protection of business secrets cannot be allowed to restrict the protection of public health. so there was nothing to prevent me from voting in favour of this text which protects our industry and in particular smes, which are particularly concerned by business secrecy, which is often their only advantage over their competitors. so there is no need to argue, as some have tried to do.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in fact, although i was initially opposed to the original directive proposed by the commission, a great deal of parliamentary work was done on this text, which ultimately, thanks to the cooperation of the enl members in particular, made it possible to protect trade secrets and thus our smes against industrial espionage, while providing a new guarantee for whistleblowers. the right to expose scandals in the public interest is now expressly recognised. in view of this development and the transformation of the directive into a common sense text, i was able to support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it has been the subject of a lot of parliamentary work, in which fn meps have participated, to protect business secrets and thus protect our smes against economic espionage, while providing a new guarantee to whistleblowers by expressly recognising their right to reveal scandals in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ the confidentiality of trade secrets is of considerable importance in order to protect companies against the theft of their information and innovations. we cannot properly expect our companies to be more competitive and innovative without providing them with a legal framework to protect their assets. far too many companies are still victims of data theft. we must protect our businesses while preserving the rights of journalists and whistleblowers to free speech. in the present context we see how much their work has been of great use to the general interest, particularly in the field of taxation. the trade secrets directive guarantees the freedom of expression provided for in the european charter of fundamental rights while allowing companies to innovate without fear. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on the draft directive on business secrets. after months of negotiations, a balanced text was finally reached, which is favourable to innovation and protects freedom of information. in a complex competitive environment, legal protection of trade secrets is essential for innovation. as such, this directive provides for the full protection of the intangible heritage of the undertaking, covering the whole process development phase. a relief for start-ups and smes, which often lack the financial means to protect themselves. we have ensured throughout the negotiations that safeguards are in place to ensure the protection of journalistic investigation and, for the first time, the protection of whistleblowers is explicitly mentioned in european legislation. this is a crucial first step. this momentum must now be used to open the debate on a genuine european status for whistleblowers within the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this codecision report sets out the measures, procedures and remedies to be made available to a trade secret holder in the event of unlawful disclosure of that secret by a third party. the proposed directive provides a common definition of business secrecy and lays down the general principles applicable to civil law instruments, and sets a time limit of at least one year and at most two years for bringing actions. it also requires member states to provide for mechanisms enabling judicial authorities to protect the confidentiality of business secrets disclosed in court. as the balance between the need to protect business secrecy from unfair commercial practices and respect for freedom of expression has been struck in this proposal, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported the text on the protection of trade secrets against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. the text provides a balanced compromise that effectively protects companies against industrial espionage while ensuring that fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and information, are not impeded. it was necessary for the european union to have a harmonised legal framework in order to strengthen business confidence in the european market. however, it was also essential to put in place adequate safeguards to protect the freedom of the press, as well as whistleblowers. the protection of trade secrets should therefore not extend to cases where the disclosure of a trade secret serves the public interest.
in writing. ‒ the term 'trade secrets' refers to know-how and information which confer a commercial and economic value on their legitimate holder. this is the name that should have been used. of course, the european union must ensure that companies, regardless of their size, are protected when their know-how is likely to be affected. the directive thus provides protection for the intangible assets of an undertaking, covering the whole process development phase. this is a good thing for european start-ups and smes, which often lack the financial means to protect themselves. and at the same time, the european union must ensure that freedom of expression and information are fundamental principles that must be preserved at all costs. for the first time, the protection of whistleblowers is explicitly mentioned in a european legislative text. this is a first step which finally opens the door to a specific directive protecting whistleblowers, whom we are calling upon to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the le grip report on the protection of trade secrets. i believe that it provides a strong and concrete response to the fight against industrial espionage which continues to affect our companies. in fact, 25% of european companies were the subject of information theft in 2013! the adoption of this report will thus make it possible to harmonize protection and sanction measures within european companies, which will have their intangible heritage and know-how protected. the vote on this text has led to a campaign of disinformation. i want to restore the truth: this directive guarantees freedom of expression and information without ambiguity, starting with freedom of the press. as regards whistleblowers, this text does not create a statute but it is the first time that the legitimacy of whistleblowers is recognised in a legislative text. this directive concerns 'trade secrets' and not 'whistleblowers'. however, my colleagues and i have been calling for a text on the subject for several months, but the european commission is very cautious, fearing that it will be too political.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i consider it to be a step forward in protecting businesses and their know-how, especially smes, while protecting journalists. in this case, it is not only necessary to consider the situation in france but also to take account of all the member states. in many eu countries, this is an important first step towards press freedom and the protection of sources. the directive did not originally concern journalists or whistleblowers. it was the decisive action of the socialist and democratic group that made it possible to clarify these elements in their favour. however, it is now necessary to supplement this directive with another text in order to protect whistleblowers in a very official and definitive way. this request was formally expressed by the s&d group to the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to protect the business secrets of european companies, including smes, against economic espionage. amendments were tabled, notably by fn members, and adopted to resolve the difficulties noted. the text guarantees freedom of the press and that of whistleblowers to disclose business secrets, in the public interest. in addition, the free movement of workers between enterprises is not impeded. on the contrary, it is also guaranteed. finally, the protection of public health cannot be restricted in the name of the protection of trade secrets. for these reasons the national front was able to support this text, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ vote for: aims to protect the business secrets of european companies, including smes, against economic espionage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to provide european smes or large companies with a harmonised legal framework that protects them from the theft or unlawful disclosure of their commercially valuable data. this text will enable our companies to combat industrial espionage and protect their know-how. this will be particularly useful in certain sectors that are highly exposed, such as perfumery. however, the protection of business secrets will override the right to freedom of information and the right of whistleblowers to disclose 'fault, improper behaviour or illegal activity' in so far as 'the general public interest is protected'. it shall also not affect the right of staff representatives to exercise their functions. nor can the know-how acquired be invoked as a trade secret to oppose the mobility of workers from one undertaking to another.
in writing. far from the recent revelations of the panama papers, this text will protect jobs, technologies and investments, while fighting against industrial espionage: this is its primary purpose. the text also aims to ensure protection for employees - public and private , consultants and managers internally and externally by reversing the burden of proof and offering compensation in the event of reprisals by the company concerned. the text could also be useful for protecting whistleblowers, who will be protected across europe in the event of the disclosure of business secrets 'in the public interest', even though only five member states have specific legislation on the protection of whistleblowers and seven of them do not protect whistleblowers at all. it is with all these elements in mind that, rather than simply rejecting this text and choosing the path of simplicity, i have supported all the rewriting work carried out by my colleagues to protect freedom of information, journalists and their sources, while defending jobs, industry and innovation in europe.
in writing. ‒ i have been asked many times about the proposal for a directive on the protection of trade secrets, and i would like to clarify my vote. i have decided to support this text because i believe that we must stop allowing our know-how and technology to be stolen by individuals or companies with odious methods. there is an urgent need to provide entrepreneurs, researchers and innovators with the legal arsenal to defend themselves against these attacks. when we know that 25% of european companies were the victims of information theft in 2013 and that cybercrime has become a constant threat, i find it baffling that we can be accused of wanting to defend our companies and the jobs that depend on them. contrary to the disinformation campaign promoted by the greens, the text places freedom of expression and information at the heart of its reasoning. journalists are excluded and whistleblowers can break these rules to "reveal wrongdoing, inappropriate behaviour or illegal activity, provided the defendant acted in order to protect the general public interest".
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to protect the business secrets of european companies, including smes, against economic espionage. it takes over the definition of trade secret given by the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips), which has the advantage of already being internationally recognised. this is commercial information or know-how (technological or industrial processes) which has commercial value, is patentable and whose confidentiality must be guaranteed during the research and development phase. this protection corresponds to a high expectation of european companies. three problems were raised by journalists (including élise lucet), trade unions and health professionals respectively. the rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs, constance le grip (epp), took them into account. amendments were tabled (notably by gilles lebreton and marie-christine boutonnet) and adopted to resolve them. there is nothing in the final analysis to prevent the national front from supporting this text. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs constance le grip, on the protection of business secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. the unauthorised use of confidential commercial information is likely to reduce the competitiveness of our smes and cause them economic harm. industrial espionage can thus cost many jobs in europe and encourage relocations. however, the text recognises cases where the theft or disclosure of business secrets may be legitimate and should not be hampered or condemned, such as investigative journalism or whistleblowers. strong exceptions are therefore provided to protect these cases, which ensures the overall balance of the text and protects the public interest in knowing certain information covered by business secrecy. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague, mrs constance le grip. the agreement reached strikes the right balance between the necessary protection of know-how, innovation and confidential information, which is a key issue for european businesses, and the preservation of the fundamental freedoms of information and expression, which are essential to democracy. in addition, other major economic countries already have such legislation. the european union cannot be the only area without a minimum of legal convergence and uniform protection.
in writing. ‒ i have of course voted in favour of the text of the agreement reached in the trilogue on the draft directive on the protection of professional know-how, which was approved by a very large majority of my colleagues. the aim of this directive is to provide common and concrete responses to combat industrial espionage while guaranteeing freedom of expression and information, starting with freedom of the press. it will make it possible to harmonise the disparate national rules on protection and sanction of know-how by providing a common legal basis for all member states to establish a climate of confidence in trade between european companies, thus protecting their know-how and intangible heritage. i have fought to ensure that the freedoms of information and expression, which are essential to the work of journalists, are fully respected. the compromise we, the european parliamentarians, have reached also provides for the protection of whistleblowers by recognising their activity and excluding from the scope of the directive the disclosure of wrongdoing, wrongdoing or illegal activities carried out in order to protect the public interest. finally, the text enshrines the right to mobility of workers, which cannot be impeded on the pretext of the possession of 'business secrets'.
in writing. ‒ by treating as 'trade secrets' everything that a company seeks to hide, and by allowing any leakage to be punished, the 'trade secret' directive is helping to muzzle workers concerned about their companies' practices and the journalists who report on them. this broad approach goes far beyond the necessary protection of intellectual property. the rule now being secret, any leak by a whistleblower must now be justified in the name of the "public interest", otherwise it can be heavily sanctioned. the burden of proof is thus reversed for employees who wish to report their companies' activities, illegal or dangerous practices. they will have to defend themselves in court against a very vague legal concept, which is not the same everywhere (let us recall luxembourg, which is currently suing antoine deltour) and against multinationals able to afford the best law firms. so i refused this text which threatens whistleblowers and the media that relays them. the protection of intellectual property of companies is important, but it must not be done without public information and democratic debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the protection of business secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. the text is a measure to protect companies, especially smes, against economic espionage. i am concerned with guaranteeing the innovation of smes and their development opportunities. the directive leaves member states the ability to prevent the unlawful use and disclosure of trade secrets and to sanction their use by means of specific decisions. at the same time, it now provides sufficient safeguards for journalists and whistleblowers to report on such secrets in the event of illegal activities or professional misconduct.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it has been the subject of a lot of parliamentary work, in which i participated, to protect business secrets and thus protect our smes against economic espionage, while providing a new guarantee to whistleblowers by expressly recognising their right to reveal scandals in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it has been the subject of a lot of parliamentary work, in which fn meps have participated, to protect business secrets and thus protect our smes against economic espionage, while providing a new guarantee to whistleblowers by expressly recognising their right to reveal scandals in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to protect data for commercial purposes and to combat industrial espionage. it is a key issue for innovation, for the competitiveness of companies and therefore for our jobs. however, the legitimate interest in protecting this information must not call into question the equally legitimate right to information on questionable practices (discriminatory pricing, tax optimisation, etc.). the outcome of the negotiations between the european parliament and the council is particularly satisfactory on the latter point. this new directive succeeds in reconciling better protection of the strategic capital of our companies with the full exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted for this text. this resolution was the subject of a great deal of parliamentary work, in which fn meps participated, to protect business secrets and thus protect our smes against economic espionage, while providing a new guarantee to whistleblowers by expressly recognising their right to reveal scandals in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to introduce a harmonised system for the protection of trade secrets and know-how in europe. this will enable "natural and legal persons to prevent information lawfully under their control from being disclosed to third parties or acquired or used by them without their consent and in a manner contrary to honest commercial practices". the text, which purports to 'protect business secrecy', is in fact intended to provide multinational companies with the means to attack citizens who dare to report their activities. the trials and prosecutions of whistleblowers who exposed luxleak, swissleak, dieselgate and other fraud cases are evidence of this. finally, i would note that this european directive coincides with a similar initiative by the united states government. because the protection of trade secrets would allow european and american companies to cooperate more closely in research and innovation, all within the framework of ttip of course. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission's communication has been substantially amended. the report adopted is a measure to protect companies, especially smes, against economic espionage. we want to guarantee the innovation of smes and their development opportunities. the directive leaves member states the ability to prevent the unlawful use and disclosure of trade secrets and to sanction their use by means of specific decisions. at the same time, it now provides sufficient safeguards for journalists and whistleblowers to report on such secrets in the event of illegal activities or professional misconduct. the press release of my colleague gilles lebreton of 19 april 2016 clearly sets out our position. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ economic espionage is a scourge for french and european companies, especially smes, which are victims of aggressive economic espionage. in the face of this reality, the national front meps took their responsibilities and decided to vote in favour of the adoption of the directive on the protection of business secrets. they have thus protected the innovation capacity and development opportunities of our smes. at the same time, they took advantage of this directive to ensure that the european parliament included measures to protect whistleblowers. with their support, the original draft of the brussels commission was thus significantly amended to recognise whistleblowers' right to disclose trade secrets 'to reveal wrongdoing, inappropriate behaviour or illegal activity' in the public interest. it's a new warranty. if it had been adopted earlier, antoine deltour and edouard perrin, who are currently being prosecuted in luxembourg for having revealed the luxleaks scandal, could have taken advantage of it. this directive therefore marks a step forward in the protection of whistleblowers. the national front thus aims to ensure that ethical standards are respected while at the same time fighting economic espionage.
in writing. ‒ three issues were raised by journalists, trade unions and health professionals respectively. the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs has taken them into account. amendments were tabled and adopted to resolve them. first, the freedom of the press and whistleblowers to disclose business secrets in the public interest is guaranteed by recitals 19 and 20 and by articles 1, 5 and 18. the directive is more protective than the vague (and eventually abandoned) provision on business secrecy in the draft law that led to the macron law of 6 august 2015. secondly, the free movement of workers between undertakings is not impeded by the protection of business secrets; it is guaranteed by recitals 3, 13 and 21 and by articles 1 and 18. thirdly, the protection of public health cannot be restricted in the name of the protection of business secrets, as stated in recital 21. there is nothing in the final analysis to prevent me from supporting this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, one in four european companies reported at least one case of information theft, resulting in a loss of turnover in 56% of cases and an increase in protection expenditure in 35% of cases. this legislation protects companies against the unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of undisclosed commercial information. it does not exempt companies from their legal obligations to be transparent and to disclose. in addition, the commission provides for an exemption for the legitimate use of freedom of expression and information: journalists who disclose business secrets cannot be sanctioned. this text strikes a balance between the protection of companies and freedom of information, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague constance le grip on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (business secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. any confidential commercial information which gives a competitive advantage to a company can be considered a trade secret (trade secrets include manufacturing secrets, industrial secrets and trade secrets). the unauthorised use of such information by anyone other than the holder is considered to be unfair practice and a breach of business secrecy. trade secret is substantially different from ipr, which confers exclusivity. the holder of a trade secret does not have an exclusive right to its creation. its competitors and other third parties can therefore freely discover, develop and use the same formula. the commission proposal sets out the measures, procedures and remedies which should be available to the holder of a trade secret in the event of unlawful acquisition, use or disclosure of that secret by a third party.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the protection of trade secrets that we have adopted provides a more precise framework for what we call 'trade secrets'. contrary to the criticisms that have been made about the infringement of citizens' freedom of information, the directive guarantees the respect of business secrets revealed before the courts, but respects the balance with the fundamental right to freedom of expression. by adopting a common definition of trade secret, we also avoid the risk of legal vacuums. i therefore voted in favour of this directive, considering that its contributions were not only fair but essential to ensure at the same time respect for the freedoms and activities of undertakings.
in writing. this report concerns a proposal for a directive on business secrecy, introducing a harmonised system for the protection of business secrets and know-how in the european union. trade secrets are legal instruments that allow companies to protect certain of their business information and to conceal it from third parties (journalists, civil society) but also to impose confidentiality on employees and their representatives. for example, trade secrets have been regularly invoked in the united states with regard to the composition of products used for the extraction of shale gas, despite the risks these products pose to the environment. in addition, trade secrets are often invoked against journalists, trade unions or whistleblowers who publish information on illegal business activities, such as tax evasion. the directive thus puts the protection cursor on the side of the companies and endangers the freedom of expression of journalists and whistleblowers who act in the public interest. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of new rules to help companies that have suffered theft or misuse of trade secret data to obtain redress. in fact, one in five companies is the victim of theft of trade secrets every year. by voting for this text, the european parliament is promoting a safe and reliable environment for companies that need to see their know-how fully protected. freedom of expression and information are therefore fully protected. in this sense, the text does not infringe on the freedom of the press and the work of journalists, particularly in their investigations but also in the protection of sources, is protected.
in writing. ‒ contrary to what has been said on social media, this directive is a balanced text that both ensures additional protection for smes and protects journalistic investigation and journalists' sources. the aim of this directive is to respond to the growing risks to which smes (especially the most innovative ones) are exposed as a result of globalisation, in the face of unfair practices of the misappropriation of trade secrets, while at the same time combating unfair competition and ensuring greater harmonisation and transparency within the union. my political group in this parliament has helped to ensure that all the provisions are in place to guarantee and safeguard the right to freedom of expression and information. this is the first time that a legal text specifically mentions and protects whistleblowers. the directive thus guarantees journalists full protection when their action is used to denounce an illegal practice and, more broadly, when it is motivated by the defence of the general interest (public safety and health, consumer and environmental protection, etc.). i voted for this text because it meets a genuine expectation of security for smes and guarantees freedom of expression and information in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive. while the original proposal of the european commission was far too vague and dangerous, the socialist and democratic group considerably improved it during the debate. the text presented to the european parliament is therefore a satisfactory and balanced compromise. it aims to protect companies, especially smes, against industrial espionage while guaranteeing a high level of protection of freedom of information. by excluding freedom of the press from the scope of this directive and introducing safeguards to protect whistleblowers, parliament has helped to balance this text which will actually improve the situation of those who act in the general interest throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ a 'trade secret' is information that companies protect to preserve, for example, their manufacturing secrets. while the original draft had significant shortcomings, meps fought to amend the directive because of the risk of putting whistleblowers at risk. the final text introduces new rights for citizens and journalists. the text states that the alleged disclosure of business secrets is the result of the "exercise of the right to freedom of expression" and states that the directive cannot achieve "respect for the freedom and pluralism of the media". for whistleblowers, we are also creating new protections: "revealing wrongdoing, inappropriate behaviour or illegal activity" in order to "protect the general public interest" cannot be considered as a breach of business secrecy. this text is an important step forward. it will protect the production processes of companies, while providing protection for whistleblowers and journalists. however, there are still areas of uncertainty and the european socialists call on the commission to extend this progress: we ask for a comprehensive text on the protection of whistleblowers!
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to protect the business secrets of european companies, including smes, against economic espionage. the text proposed better protection for whistleblowers, which i of course supported. i am of course in favour of greater protection of our companies, and especially our smes, against economic espionage. france is a leader in many advanced fields such as aviation and information technology, and these companies must be able to exercise their know-how without fear of a potential threat of espionage. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in the midst of the panama papers scandal, the european parliament voted by a large majority in favour of the 'business secret'. the directive will allow companies to protect and conceal certain information and impose confidentiality clauses on their employees and representatives. in other words, large companies will be able to hide crucial information such as health or environmental information! for example, the chemical composition of products used for shale gas extraction is considered a trade secret in the united states. this directive therefore represents a direct threat to whistleblowers, journalists, trade unionists and employees of companies. the european parliament has made some progress, but it remains hypothetical until a text that actually protects whistleblowers is adopted. it was 'promised' by the commission for june. the vote on the two texts should have been tied. i voted against this directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. this report forecasts an overall increase of 4.3% compared to the 2016 budget with a total amount of 1.9 billion euros! although the main expenditure mentioned is the increase in security and cybersecurity expenditure, the strengthening of the means available to members in the exercise of their mandate is also relevant, as is the strengthening of the attractiveness of the european parliament to the public... paradoxically, in contrast to the enormous increase in the budget, this text encourages, in the most hypocritical way, the search for ways of making savings. the european parliament must of course put in place real measures to contain or even drastically reduce expenditure, while ensuring the protection of the site and the staff involved. that is not the case in this estimate of parliament's expenditure, and i have therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which only deals with the european parliament's budgetary guidelines for 2017, not the final budget which will be voted on in the autumn. first of all, i welcome the fact that the increase in current expenditure envisaged by the secretary-general has been reduced from 1.9% to 1.4%. however, the introduction of gaelic has led to an additional cost: it increases the level of appropriations by 0.2%. i regret that, but it is a legal requirement, since gaelic is one of the official languages of the european union. the largest increase in volume is in safety. it was granted an exceptional allocation of 15 million last year and was registered this year for an amount of 37 million, increased to 47 million after the attacks of 22 march. due to events, we have not received the evaluations that justify this increase. the required analyses will have to be carried out by the autumn. if the security expenditure is not justified by that time, i will draw the consequences and reconsider my position. finally, i am pleased that the secretary-general has committed to changing the presentation of parliament's budget in 2018, by separating current and capital expenditure.
in writing. ‒ while the european parliament continues to advocate a policy of budgetary austerity to respond to the current economic crisis, i can only oppose this report on the provisional state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017, which provides for an overall increase in the parliament's budget of 4.3% compared to the 2016 budget, in order to enhance the security and attractiveness of the european parliament for the public and visitors or to increase the resources made available to members during their term of office. rather than focusing on budget increases, parliament must make savings in its own expenditure and thus be less wasteful of our taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. it reports that the general secretariat of the european parliament wants to increase the budget of the european parliament to €1.9 billion, an overall increase of 4.3% compared to the 2016 budget! the reasons given are security needs, increased funding for members and the need for parliament to allow visits by citizens. paradoxically, the report seeks to encourage ways of saving and making more efficient use of public funds, but this is in total contradiction to the increase in the budget which it operates even as the union demands increasing austerity from the peoples of europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecasts a budget of approximately eur 1.9 billion for the financial year 2017, an increase of 4.3% compared to 2016. this budgetary inflation is intended to finance increased security and cybersecurity expenditure, to increase the resources available to members in the exercise of their mandate or to increase the attractiveness of the european parliament. while our fellow citizens are suffering daily from the austerity measures imposed by the commission on the member states, the technocrats in brussels are squandering taxpayers' money by increasing the budget of the european parliament. that is why i voted against this scandalous report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report underlines that the european union and its member states must take greater responsibility for security and defence. it called on the member states to make more effective use of the common security and defence policy tools. it is important that the financing of the union's civilian missions and military operations be adapted to new needs. i supported this report because i believe that the european union is currently experiencing unprecedented instability and that additional measures are needed.
in writing. ‒ this report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017 indicates that the parliament's secretariat-general wants to increase the budget of the parliament to €1.9 billion for the next year, an increase of 4.3% compared to 2016. i voted against this report which calls for savings and rationalisation in the use of public funds, while at the same time foresees an increase in the budget for 2017 with which i do not wish to be associated. although security costs are mentioned, they are accompanied by expenditure to enhance the attractiveness of the european parliament to the public and visitors, which is not in any way a budgetary imperative.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the report encourages the search for ways to save money and make more efficient use of public funds without, however, calling into question the budget increase for 2017.
in writing. while efforts to make the use of public funds even more efficient are strongly encouraged, i believe that our institution also needs to equip itself with the means to meet its responsibilities, which are those of a co-legislator, in particular by strengthening the teams in charge of parliamentary committees and legislative monitoring. that is why i voted in favour of this report and several amendments to bring more transparency to the use of european public funds, in particular the allowance for members' overheads. i am also in favour of any expenditure to make the european parliament more attractive to the public and visitors, in particular through the parliamentariums and the house of european history. our institution must be accessible to all, including deaf and hard of hearing citizens, which is why i support the creation of an interpretation of our debates in international sign language. in view of the recent terrorist threats to the european institutions, i supported the budget for extraordinary expenditure on security investments. however, i have reservations about the proposal to internalise the chauffeur service and to replace the external service provider with contract staff from parliament.
in writing. ‒ the report encourages the search for ways to save money and make more efficient use of public funds without overly contesting the insane increase in the budget for 2017. it advocates greater public intelligibility and accessibility of the content of the eu budgets, particularly as regards their evolution from one year to the next. rather than focusing on budget increases, the european parliament must make savings in its own expenditure. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr indrek tarand, on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017. the report states that four priorities need to be addressed: improving security and cybersecurity, removing derogations in relation to the irish language, giving more scope for members to exercise their mandate and making parliament more attractive to the public. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the tarand report on the estimated statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. the parliament's bureau and the committee on budgets have agreed on a 2017 budget of the parliament of eur 1 900 873 000, which represents an increase of 3,4% compared to the 2016 budget. in addition, extraordinary expenditure on security and cybersecurity is planned for eur 47,6 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017, which states in particular that the general secretariat of this institution wants to increase the budget of the european parliament to eur 1.9 billion, i.e. an overall increase of 4.3% compared to the 2016 budget. the parliament therefore adopted the adage that 'well-ordered austerity starts with others'. this would finance increased security and digital security expenditure, increase the means available to members in the exercise of their mandate, and enhance the attractiveness of the european parliament to the public and visitors. rather than focusing on budget increases, the european parliament should make savings in its own expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it unreasonably validates the increase in parliament's expenditure in 2017 of 4,3% compared to 2016. austerity is good for eu member states but not for the european parliament! that's what i call not setting an example... the europeanist oligarchy is cutting itself off even further from the peoples it is supposed to represent.
in writing. ‒ in an age of austerity, the european parliament's secretariat has found nothing better to do than to increase the european parliament's budget for 2017 by 4.3% to €1.9 billion. the reason given is to finance increased security and cybersecurity expenditure, to increase the resources available to members in the exercise of their mandate and to make the european parliament more attractive to the public and visitors. in the midst of the crisis, european citizens will certainly appreciate these measures. parliament must make savings in its own expenditure, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this is a proposal to increase the eu budget for 2017 by €1.9 billion! the increase would be justified by security and cybersecurity expenditure, but also by more resources granted to members in the exercise of their mandate and by expenses related to the reception of visitors. in the face of budgetary constraints, the europe of nations and freedoms group is advocating savings for the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the guidelines for the preparation of parliament's 2017 budget. once again, the parliamentary majority that supports the general contraction of european and national budgets finds it normal that the parliament's budget increases by 3.9% in 2017, after an increase of 3% in 2016. the budget of parliament continues to grow faster than inflation without any democratic progress being made. the new increase is now justified by security. the report calls for a blind approval of a doubling of the security budget, while admitting to not having any information on the planned expenditure for this! on many other issues, such as parliament's lavish housing policy, the report continues to make a desperate call for transparency, with the details of the price of several transactions still not known despite repeated requests. the green rapporteur's positive efforts to support 'more organic food' in canteens and the translation of sessions into sign language are not enough to make up for the bureaucratic backwardness of this institution, which is no more democratic than the rest of the eu institutional system. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report on parliament's finances is no different from the proposals of the secretariat. i object to the fact that the expenditure they are advocating, which is already substantial, is being reassessed by 4.3%. i think that such a budget is largely superficial. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report encourages the search for ways to save money and make more efficient use of public funds without overly contesting the insane increase in the budget for 2017. it advocates greater public intelligibility and accessibility of the content of eu budgets, particularly on their evolution from one year to the next. rather than focusing on budget increases, the european parliament must make savings in its own expenditure. i therefore vote against this report, which is far from it.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's bureau and the committee on budgets have reached an agreement on a 2017 budget of the parliament of eur 1 900 873 000. this report provides an estimate of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017 and identifies priorities, including the institution's security and cybersecurity. so i voted for it. however, i opposed an amendment which favoured a single workplace for the european parliament. the preservation of the strasbourg seat, as provided for in the treaties, is essential to the maintenance of a europe closer to the citizens, with institutions equitably distributed among the member states.
in writing. ‒ in the search for security, visibility and increased action by meps, parliament has decided to increase its budget to meet the priorities we have set for ourselves. given the importance of our work in the european parliament, but also the need to make the european union even more attractive to our fellow citizens, i naturally voted in favour of the text. it is crucial, however, to reaffirm our attachment to the european parliament's seat in strasbourg. i regret that the majority of the european parliament is turning its back on this pillar of european construction, and i call on each of my french colleagues to demonstrate their commitment to respect for the treaties and to the city of strasbourg as the official seat of the european parliament.
in writing. this budgetary report covers the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017. such a budget must have three priorities: safeguarding european democracy, addressing security challenges and, above all, ensuring budgetary exemplarity. on this last point, i think that a number of expenditure items are not useful, whether it is the transport of members, the increase in parliamentary assistance or the renewal of offices. i also oppose the cut in interpretation services, despite the adoption of my amendment on the introduction of international sign language interpretation for plenary debates. in view of these facts, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ meps are called upon to give their opinion on the management of the european parliament as an institution. the adoption of the report on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017 thus makes it possible to identify several priorities, such as strengthening security and increasing the attractiveness of the institution to the public and visitors. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights that the secretariat-general of the european parliament wants to increase expenditure by 4.3% compared to 2016, bringing the budget to eur 1.9 billion. parliament therefore adopted the adage that 'well-ordered austerity starts with others'. rather than focusing on budget increases, the european parliament should make savings in its own expenditure. i am voting against this text.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i deplore the decline in freedoms in turkey, including freedom of expression. turkey is the country that keeps the most journalists in prison in the world, and that is unacceptable. there is an urgent need for reforms in the area of justice and fundamental rights and freedoms. we call for the restoration of the separation of powers and the drafting of an inclusive constitution. we also call for the immediate resumption of peace negotiations with the pkk, and we condemn the return to violence and the behaviour of the turkish authorities which amounts to collective punishment. turkey must lift the curfews, respect human rights and bring to justice those responsible for the abuses (including the appalling actions of the special forces). as such, it is essential that the union play a role in the resumption of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ on 18 march, chancellor merkel and the other so-called "negotiators" of this agreement with turkey actually gave in to all of sultan erdoğan's demands. the leaders who preside over the destinies of our drifting continent have signed a new blank check to the turkish fireman. the 3 billion euros previously allocated to turkey have been doubled, all at the expense of our taxpayers. worse still, despite the shadowy links between the turks and the barbarians of the islamic state and despite the fact that turkey allows the smuggling mafia to flourish, it has been decided to grant its 80 million citizens unrestricted access to the schengen area. what a terrible market for fools !
in writing. - €3 billion this is the price that our europe, under the aegis of mrs merkel, has agreed to pay to ankara to relieve our conscience with regard to the refugees fleeing syria. this is the price mr erdoğan has made us pay for considering his country a "safe country", and even a country that meets the criteria to one day become the largest member state of the european union. what a hypocrite ! the persecution of the turkish kurds for decades is worth mentioning. do we need to recall the countless imprisonments of journalists critical of mr erdoğan's regime? is it necessary to recall the occupation of cyprus? should we recall the regression of the secular state built by atatürk? what a pitiful munich spirit! even though this report lists the human rights violations in turkey, the heads of state continue to cover their faces in the name of a realpolitik which does not dare to say its name, even though we are receiving reports that ankara does not keep its word and dares to turn back refugees whom turkey is supposed to host in exchange for the manna we give it.
in writing. ‒ this 2015 report on turkey is in fact a way of supporting its accession to the union. the report also attempts to present a common foreign policy of the union to which turkey should conform even though the sovereign member states have their own foreign policies. turkey has no place in the union because of its geography, its values or its standard of living, because we would simply not be able, in the current austerity context, to finance turkey massively with european funds. finally, we cannot accept that a country whose regime is becoming authoritarian and violates freedom of expression, fundamental rights and the rights of minorities should join the union. i would also remind you that turkey still refuses to recognise the armenian genocide of 1915. finally, i would like to stress that turkey is already trying to outsmart the union in order to manage its migrant situation, even though it receives substantial pre-accession funds and remains the main gateway for migrants to the union, and even the main link for the islamic state to export its oil abroad. i therefore naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution on the 2015 report on turkey is, as it stands, unacceptable. the resolution calls for a strengthening of relations between the european union and turkey through the resumption of accession negotiations and the opening of chapters 23 (justice and fundamental rights) and 24 (justice, freedom and security). i am firmly opposed to turkey's membership of the european union. i believe that by continuing to negotiate with turkey we are lying to the turkish people by giving them hope that they will one day be part of it. i would remind you that the accession procedure requires the unanimous agreement of the member states. i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in its motion for a resolution, parliament stresses that turkey is a strategic partner for the union and that active and credible negotiations would provide an appropriate framework for exploiting the full potential of eu-turkey relations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. i am opposed to the reopening of these negotiations and in line with the french position, i voted against this resolution with my colleagues from the french delegation of the epp, considering that fundamental values of the union are not being respected in turkey.
in writing. i voted against this report on turkey for 2015. i am firmly opposed to any new opening of negotiating chapters for turkey's accession to the european union. the european union must be frank with turkey. let us stop making turkey believe that it will join the european union and lay the foundations for a strong partnership. this is the way in which the union will be able to continue to support turkey in its necessary structural reforms. regular dialogue is also essential to address together the major common challenges, including migration and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ for the past two years, turkey has witnessed a serious decline in freedom of speech, expression and opinion, both online and offline. such restrictions on fundamental rights and violations of the rule of law must lead the union to react firmly, in particular by making its aid to istanbul conditional on respect for democratic principles. it is also inconceivable that cooperation between the union and turkey on the reception of refugees or migrants should be made conditional on the opening of new chapters in the context of turkey's application for membership of the european union. more generally, the union needs to pause its enlargement process in order to consolidate what has been achieved at 28. we believe that turkey's accession to the union should not be on the agenda of the european calendar. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ our line has always been to oppose turkey's accession to the european union. the resolution mentions in particular the increasing participation of the turkish foreign minister in the meetings of the european foreign affairs council, which seems to me completely unacceptable since either you are in the union and in that case you have a right to a seat, or you are not in the union and in that case you do not participate. it is a false message to our turkish partners and to the citizens of europe. for the same reasons, i am opposed to the inclusion of turkish as an official language of the union. i am in favour of turkey being a privileged partner, but not a member state of the union, and that is why i have chosen to oppose this process by voting against this resolution and therefore refusing to open new chapters of negotiations.
in writing. ‒ this report by kati piri is uncompromising on the deplorable situation of freedoms in turkey. turkey is the country that holds the most journalists in prison in the world. there is an urgent need for reforms in the area of justice and fundamental rights and freedoms. the text calls for the restoration of the separation of powers and the drafting of an inclusive constitution. it also called for the immediate resumption of peace negotiations with the pkk. it condemned the return of violence by the latter, as well as the behaviour of the turkish authorities which amounted to collective punishment. again, the facts are clear. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european union's external borders. like my colleague, i would like to see chapters 23 (judiciary and fundamental rights) and 24 (justice, freedom and security) opened. i believe that this is the best way of getting turkey to make progress in the field of human rights.
in writing. ‒ on thursday, 14 april, i rejected a report on the emergency measures to be taken by turkey, which was in favour of continuing the accession negotiations. i believe that eu-turkey cooperation on migration must be decoupled from the eu accession process. we cannot accept that turkey uses migrants to finance its accession to the union, which we are opposed to anyway. the report also highlights the deterioration of the rule of law and fundamental values in the country, with a worrying regression in freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on turkey, which marks a worrying development in the european parliament's position on turkey's application for membership of the european union. my position is constant and i want to reiterate it: yes to turkey as the union's privileged partner, no to its accession, which, given the deadlock in the negotiations on the chapters already opened, is not close to being achieved. i am concerned to see that the positions of certain political groups in parliament are encouraging the institutionalisation of the participation of the turkish foreign minister in the european foreign affairs council meetings, or the inclusion of the turkish language as an official language of the union. it's the undercover route to membership. the european peoples are very clear on this subject: turkey, which shares its borders with syria, iraq, iran and georgia - in other words, a highly unstable region - has no intention of joining the union. we have a titanic job to do today to re-establish control of our own external borders. would we go so far as to entrust this task to a country which is at the same time criticized for its violations of freedoms?
in writing. ‒ this report goes completely against our longstanding position, which is to reject, by all possible means, turkey's interference in the affairs of the european union. the elements discussed in this text once again demonstrate the submission of the european institutions to the turkish state, which is trying to lead the dance in trade with the union. the desire to encourage the introduction of turkish as an official language of the european union is an aberration to which i strongly oppose. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague kati piri on the report on turkey 2015. despite the fact that turkey is not european, geographically or culturally, turkey's policies on the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression, respect for human rights and the rule of law continue to distance it from european standards. if cooperation between turkey and the union is legitimately to be strengthened in the field of energy security, the fight against terrorism or the refugee crisis, it is an irresponsible lie to the citizens, both european and turkish, to falsely maintain the illusion that turkey is destined to join the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which contains unacceptable parts. it proposes the opening of new chapters on accession (paragraphs 23 and 24), and i am against turkey's accession to the union. the report also welcomes an initiative to make turkish an official language of the union, even though the cyprus question is still unresolved. the commission is also proposing that the turkish foreign minister be allowed to participate in the european council of ministers when this is justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution adopted by parliament on the situation in turkey in 2015. in rejecting it, we republicans reaffirmed our deep reservations about the content of the sloppy, hasty and unbalanced agreement between the european union and turkey. on the pretext that we must be able to count on the cooperation of the turkish state to stop the flow of illegal migrants and refugees who pass through the 'balkan route' or cross the mediterranean from the turkish coast, to break the criminal networks of smugglers, which we know are increasingly linked to the 'islamic state' group, we cannot hesitate on the question of human rights, freedom of the press, the rights of minorities and go through the hot forks of the sublime porte! i also reiterated my absolute opposition to the opening of negotiating chapters for turkey's eventual accession to the european union, and in particular to the condition of the turkish government that visa requirements be lifted for turkish nationals wishing to travel to the union: we republicans are not going to give in to turkish blackmail!
in writing. - i voted against the annual report on turkey. although this text contains an impressive number of points which are fundamentally critical of the turkish government, it is still in line with turkey's accession to the european union. the amendment by the europe of nations and freedoms group condemning the resumption of accession negotiations was rejected, while turkey does not meet the conditions for continuing negotiations. the idea of turkish membership is contrary to the interests of the european nations. it is rejected by the french and other european peoples en masse. that is why the accession process for turkey must be brought to an end.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it supports the eu accession process for turkey despite turkey's troubled relations with the islamic state group. the amendment by the enl group which proposed to stop the accession negotiations was rejected by 551 votes to 80! another amendment by the enl group calling for the recognition of the armenian genocide was also rejected, but still received 159 votes. the icing on the cake: this report proposes to make turkish an official language of the union!
in writing. ‒ this report on the state of play of the accession negotiations with turkey comes amid the migrant crisis. the eu has offered 6 billion to "guard" syrian refugees, even though turkey's sympathy for the islamic state group is no longer to be demonstrated. moreover, it is a real satisfaction given to the erdoğan government as it pursues its authoritarian agenda. the resolution notes this hardening of the opposition to the independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. it also called for peaceful solutions to the kurdish conflict and violations of cypriot territory. but the 'pursuit of enlargement' remains. turkey can therefore continue its actions, in particular against the local forces, especially the kurds, who are fighting the islamic state group. parliament even proposes to offer turkey new import duties on agricultural products, services and public procurement. it called for turkey's views to be taken into account in the negotiations on tafta. turkey is therefore practically a member of the union. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report, which favours cooperation with turkey, ultimately supports its accession. i see that turkey is playing a very confusing geopolitical game that we pretend not to understand. following his complaints, it should be noted that the substantial funding granted to him was collected, without results. finally, i am opposed to the spirit of this text, which advocates an ever wider europe. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the vote on this resolution, which envisaged the opening of new negotiating chapters for turkey's accession to the european union, called for the turkish language to become an official language of the european union in the short term and proposed that the turkish foreign minister be systematically invited to the council. turkey is not geographically, historically or culturally part of the european union. it is not therefore intended to be a member.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the paragraphs which aimed to take turkey's accession negotiations further. turkey is a very big country that i respect. that is precisely why we must stop lying to the turkish people: europe is not destined to expand indefinitely. we must build a privileged partnership with our nearest neighbour, but to do that we must stop focusing on the false debate about their membership. europe and turkey have a future to build together, but turkey's future is not to become a member of the european union.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a key partner for the european union, particularly in managing migration flows to european countries. i also welcome his commitment to the fight against terrorism and i support the decision of the turkish government to allow the coalition forces to use its military bases. however, i cannot accept that turkey should use the current crisis to get parliament to continue the process of accession to the european union. while turkey is far from meeting the convergence criteria for considering membership, and even though it is a major player in the middle east and not in europe, my position remains unchanged. i therefore voted against the resolution and i would like to express my disappointment at the european parliament conceding what, for the moment, should not be conceded.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the 2015 report on turkey, presented by the european commission in november 2015. i would like to remind you that the current cooperation between the union and turkey in the management of the migration crisis must be dissociated from the negotiation process for the country's accession to the union. in particular, although turkey is a "key strategic partner" for the european union, the overall pace of reforms in the country has slowed down in recent times, with worrying regressions in freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary. the 2015 report on turkey also indicates that the kurdish peace process is a major issue. the negotiations on the reunification of cyprus are also linked to turkish policy. if there is a positive development in relations between cyprus and turkey, it will not change the fact that i am still opposed to turkey's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ as every year, parliament adopted a report on the situation in turkey in the context of its application for eu membership. in this text, parliament deplored with rare firmness the setbacks in respect for democracy and the rule of law and the regressions observed in certain areas (independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression, respect for human rights against academics, journalists and hdp activists, etc.). the kurdish question in particular is dealt with at length: abuses by the security forces are denounced and the turkish government is called upon to assume its responsibilities in order to resume negotiations with a view to reaching a lasting solution. - what's the deed? but at the same time, the text adopts a mediocre position, which is sometimes absurd, particularly in the fight against terrorism. it is recalled that the pkk is on the union's list of terrorist organisations, which justifies the unjustifiable. 113 members voted for the amendment i tabled to remove the pkk from this list. the trade dimension is also present, with a call for "turkish interests to be taken into account" in the negotiations on the itcp. the eu and turkey have reached an agreement on migration. a curious balancing act that led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report, which remains in the context of albania's accession to the european union, multiplies attempts to interfere in the country's territorial or energy policies. it also notes all the points - the power of organised crime, child labour, the censorship of albanian newspapers, etc. - on which i see the country's accession to the union more than ever compromised.
in writing. ‒ this 2015 report on albania is also intended to support the country's eu accession process. on 10 october 2010, the commission recommended that albania be granted the status of a candidate country for accession to the union. in may 2010, it already allowed citizens of albania (like those of bosnia and herzegovina) to travel to the schengen countries with a biometric passport and without a visa, thus encouraging a little more immigration to western european countries, like my own, france. in addition, albania suffers from serious internal problems and is an eu hub for various traffics. its public administration and judicial system are gangrenous and organized crime and corruption are rampant. the fundamental rights, especially of minorities, are rarely respected. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, parliament welcomes the steady progress made by albania in reforms around the priority objectives, while encouraging the parliament and political parties not to slacken the pace of reforms. parliament stressed the shortcomings in the functioning of the judiciary and called for an acceleration of efforts to overcome political interference, selective justice, corruption and lack of resources. it recommended that the commission closely monitor progress in judicial reform and encouraged it to take account of albania's progress in the five priority areas when considering the opening of accession negotiations. i have supported this report because i believe that albania has made real progress in reform and that it should be encouraged to continue this progress.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the 2015 report on albania. in this resolution, parliament recalls the need to eradicate corruption and welcomes the adoption of the national anti-corruption strategy for 2015-2020 and the action plan for 2015-2017. it is also essential that albania continue to develop an effective policy against radicalisation. i would like to remind you, however, that the european union needs to take a long-term break in its enlargement policy.
in writing. ‒ this report is similar to the report on turkey. as i am naturally opposed to the enlargement of the union, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report by my colleague knut fleckenstein on albania. i welcome the steady progress made by albania in the reforms it is carrying out around the priority objectives. however, the need to address the problems currently affecting the functioning of the judiciary, such as corruption and ineffective control mechanisms, political interference, low accountability and selective justice, should be emphasised. the importance of media freedom should also be stressed and the implementation of the audiovisual media law should be strengthened. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights albania's recent progress on reforms. the report also welcomes the proposed reform of the judiciary, which should help to combat a persistent problem in the country, namely corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on albania, which is in line with the logic of that country's accession to the european union. the amendment by the europe of nations and freedoms group opposing accession negotiations was rejected, as albania does not meet the conditions for negotiation. the idea of systematic enlargement of the european union is contrary to the interests of the european nations. it is rejected by the french and other european peoples en masse. that is why this process must be stopped.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is in line with the future accession of albania. i am opposed, as a matter of principle, to any enlargement of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report on albania is relatively balanced and focuses on the key issues for the country's development: endemic corruption, unemployment, organised crime, drug trafficking... the resolution welcomes the improvements in these areas. but it is to better impose a pace of reform on albania with a view to eventual accession to the union. the resolution calls for "no slackening of the pace of reforms, and even acceleration", whether in strengthening the rule of law or in privatisation, with the goal of the advent of the sacred "market economy". other policies would be more beneficial to the people, in a country that has not seen any investment in its public infrastructure since the end of enver hoxha. i vote against this sermon about a country with aggressively anti-serb governance.
in writing. ‒ this report is similar to the one on turkey. as an opponent of enlargement, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which notes that albania is making progress in its reforms around the priority objectives set for the opening of accession negotiations, but that it must make important commitments, notably on the rule of law and democracy and the fight against corruption and crime. the european union must be extremely vigilant in ensuring that all the negotiating chapters are respected before accepting further enlargement.
in writing. ‒ albania has embarked on the path of reform and democratic political culture, and should be commended as such. it is now essential to strengthen the independence and proper functioning of the judiciary and political transparency, and to guarantee fundamental freedoms in the country. i would also like to congratulate the government on the measures it has taken to combat the scourge of organised crime, which is undermining the economy and endangering social structures. it is in our common interest to support albania in its reform and development process; i therefore naturally voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed the 2015 report on albania, which reports on some progress made by the country, such as the reform of its judicial system. however, i am very concerned about the extent of corruption and organised crime in the country and call for full respect for the rule of law, a basic principle of the democracies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this follow-up report on albania. in order to underline albania's commitment to the negotiation process, it is necessary that the country accelerate its pace of reforms, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime. it is essential to take measures to strengthen human rights. i supported this text because it also calls on albania to continue its economic reforms in order to curb the underground economy. finally, it is a matter of welcoming the constructive role played by albania in the region and its desire to improve relations with serbia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. bosnia and herzegovina still has some work to do in the fight against corruption and respect for the rule of law, but we must bear in mind that any rapprochement with the union will lead to greater stability and prosperity in the entire western balkans region. i would also like to make it clear that i am opposed to any enlargement of the union.
in writing. ‒ this report supports bosnia's 'european perspective' without saying a word about the unfavourable treatment of the large historical minority of bosnian serbs. the attempts of the parliament to interfere in the internal politics of the country, in the energy or ecological fields, are also noteworthy. i have of course voted against this report which paves the way for the country's accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which is a monument of contempt for bosnia and herzegovina and its people, and i did so out of pure submission to the euro-federalist ideology of unlimited eu enlargement. the parliamentarians who drew up this report dare shamelessly to give political directives to the political and religious leaders of bosnia and herzegovina: apparently it is unbearable for the eurobates in brussels that we can remain attached to the idea of a nation. democracy is also being put to the test in this report, as it clearly asks the president of the republika srpska to postpone the referendum on the judiciary in the state of bosnia and herzegovina; the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. finally, the bosnian serb republic's ties with russia are almost tantamount to a declaration of war, as the territory apparently does not have the right to establish bilateral foreign policy relations in the best interests of its strategic interests.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution considers that an effective coordination mechanism for union-related issues between the different levels of government is essential to ensure better interaction with the union. parliament also called on the delegation of bosnia and herzegovina to the stabilisation and association parliamentary committee (sapc) to make constructive progress towards the adoption of the rules of procedure at the next meeting of the sapc. parliament regretted that corruption remained widespread and called on the authorities to improve the record of the effectiveness of investigations and prosecutions in high-level corruption cases. i voted in favour of this resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. in this resolution, parliament recalled that bosnia and herzegovina was seriously affected by the phenomenon of foreign fighters and that effective deradicalisation programmes were urgently needed. i welcome the adoption by bosnia and herzegovina of an action plan to combat trafficking in human beings for the period 2016-2019, but i stress the need for swift and effective implementation.
in writing. ‒ this text is a well-intentioned interference in serbian affairs, which is intended to bring them into line with the union's vision. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 report by my colleague cristian dan preda on bosnia and herzegovina. in the context of the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina, a coordination mechanism is essential to ensure better interaction with the union. nevertheless, corruption is still widespread. the independence of the media and the holding of free and independent elections must also be stressed. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which assesses each year the progress made by candidate and potential candidate countries. while the report highlights the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina in recent months, it is concerned about the widespread corruption in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on bosnia and herzegovina, which is in line with the logic of the country's accession to the european union. the idea of systematic enlargement of the european union is contrary to the interests of the european nations. it is rejected by the french and other european peoples en masse. that is why this process must be stopped. the anti-serb content of the text is not to make it more acceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it supports the european perspective of bosnia. i am opposed, in principle, to any new accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina officially applied for candidate status for european integration on 15 february. since its independence, bosnia has not been able to overcome its primary challenges: mass unemployment, endemic corruption, partial justice and above all a constitutional and institutional architecture based on the recognition of constituent ethnicities (bosnian muslims, bosnian serbs and croats). as the european court of human rights has recently pointed out, it is particularly problematic that a person cannot declare himself a simple 'citizen of bosnia and herzegovina' without any ethnic affiliation, in order to be able to stand for election. but for parliament, the rapprochement with the european union and its neoliberal orthodoxy will naturally solve these problems. the united kingdom and germany have also long been pushing for the setting aside of constitutional revisions in favour of european integration and yet another wave of social and fiscal dumping. the report's concerns are that there is no unified single economic zone in the territory, "which is detrimental to the business environment". i vote against it. the country's priority is political stabilisation of its federal entities and not european membership.
in writing. ‒ this text is a well-thought-out interference in serbian affairs that aims to bring them into line with the vision of the european union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina submitted its application for membership of the european union on 15 february 2016. the resolution welcomes the reform drive of the authorities of the country, which is reflected in particular by the implementation of the 2015-2018 reform programme. however, bosnia still needs to make progress on the rule of law, democracy, the fight against corruption and judicial reform before it can join the european union, which must be extremely vigilant about respecting all negotiating chapters before accepting further enlargement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on bosnia and herzegovina because it presents a clear picture of the situation in the country. we recall in particular that membership of the european union is conditional, that a stable judicial system is necessary and that fundamental freedoms must be guaranteed. bosnia and herzegovina has embarked on a path of reform and its efforts are to be welcomed. the resolution thus presents a first positive report and i encourage, by supporting this resolution, the government to pursue reforms.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the 2015 report on bosnia and herzegovina. it noted the progress made by the country and encouraged the national authorities to continue along the path of compliance with the basic rules of european democracies. however, there are still many aspects which illustrate the marked differences between this country and the member states of the european union, which do not allow consideration of bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the union. in this respect, my position is very clear: there will be no enlargement of the union in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on bosnia and herzegovina. the text welcomes the bosnian initiative but stresses that bosnia must continue to implement important reforms. it is essential that the bosnian authorities pursue legal, socioeconomic, political and constitutional reforms. it is more regrettable that the country has not brought its constitution into line with judgments of the european court of human rights. the priority of european action in bosnia and herzegovina must be the fight against corruption and the independence of the judiciary. the text also calls for the full implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa).
in writing. ‒ this report, which aims to meet the poverty reduction target, is part of the europe 2020 strategy which aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty by that date. the report sets out two main objectives: to increase the income of poor households and to reduce expenditure, in particular by better allocating european funds. i opposed this text because in the area of the fight against poverty, measures such as the minimum wage or the tax shift are clearly the responsibility of the member states. moreover, common european aid would be ineffective because the "type" of poverty varies from one country to another. the only possible response is a targeted response by each member state on its territory. finally, the migration crisis and the impasse of the economic crisis are evils that no european initiative can control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to meet the poverty reduction objective of the europe 2020 strategy. the establishment of harmonised social standards will enable the union to take integration to the next level and help to address the inequalities that have increased since the crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020, focuses on family poverty in the context of rising housing, energy and education costs, with the aim of increasing the incomes of poor households by introducing a minimum wage and reducing their expenditure by introducing a tax shift towards energy-intensive industries or subsidies from eu funds. apart from the encroachment on the competences of sovereign states, such tax measures are inappropriate in that the types of poverty vary from one state to another. the best solution is still a targeted intervention by each member state and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. to get closer to this objective, certain actions are being considered at european level. this text focuses in particular on the poverty of families in the context of the rising cost of housing, energy, and education. unfortunately, although the aim is commendable, the means and methods are not at all appropriate to the situation. a european approach to the situation is no longer possible and there is no mention of the crisis and the austerity policy in europe or even of the arrival of migrants. the use of eu funds has only a limited impact on the policies undertaken by the member states and proposals such as the minimum wage or tax harmonization should be the responsibility of the states and not the european union. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. the report sets out two main objectives: to increase the income of poor households and to reduce expenditure, in particular by better allocating european funds. i opposed this text because a common european approach to the fight against poverty is inappropriate, given the wide macroeconomic differences between member states. the only adequate solution to this scourge is a targeted response by each national government in its territory. the migration crisis and the impending economic crisis are troubles that no european initiative can control. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report looks at the possible impact of energy and consumer price policies on poverty, particularly for disadvantaged groups. the report aims to find the best way to help households facing poverty and examines what measures could be taken to combat poverty as such. considering that the union is moving away from its 2020 strategy target of reducing poverty by at least 20 million people in europe, and that it is necessary to develop a strategy so that all households can meet their needs, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported this report which analyses the possible impact of energy and consumer price policies on poverty. it proposes solutions to achieve the poverty reduction objective of the europe 2020 strategy, such as the development of employment and the guarantee of an income to enable people to live a decent life.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of the report entitled 'meeting the poverty reduction target in the context of rising household costs' because it is now essential to fight poverty more effectively. this is one of the objectives of the european union for 2020, reducing by 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty. in this context, it seemed important to me to support a european definition of energy poverty. without such a definition, it seems to me that it is difficult to combat it effectively. i am not saying that the commission should be the one to decide on minimum incomes, but i am saying that it is up to the member states to decide on national minimum incomes and not the european commission, which is why i was opposed to this idea.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the best solution to the problem would be targeted intervention by each member state.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. to get closer to this objective, certain actions are being considered at european level. this text focuses in particular on the poverty of families in the context of the rising cost of housing, energy and education. poverty is growing as the crisis deepens, and is being made worse by the arrival of migrants, but no european initiative is able to reverse the trend. european funds have only a minor impact on the policies undertaken by the member states, and policies such as the establishment of a minimum wage or the shift to taxation clearly fall within national competence. of course, the 'types' of poverty and the causes of poverty vary from one member state to another, which is why a common european approach is not very suitable. the best solution would be a targeted intervention by each member state to address poverty in its territory. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which is one of the five objectives of the european union for 2020. the union has set itself the target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty. unfortunately, we are still far from that goal. this report therefore intends to make proposals to achieve this.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is hypocritical. the eu appears to be fighting hard against poverty, but the money it spends on it is paltry. the report also conceals the grim reality that poverty has its root causes in the ultra-liberal policies of the eu. the passage calling on the brussels commission to combat precarious work is, from this point of view, totally surreal!
in writing. - i voted against it. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set up two axes to achieve the goal of lifting 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. the aim is to increase the income of poor households and to reduce expenditure. at first glance, these measures seem to be a good remedy for the worsening poverty. it is the crisis that is stalled and intensifying with the mass arrival of migrants that is increasing poverty. the european union is being cowardly in not tackling this problem head on. in addition, it is up to each member state to solve the poverty of families and to find a way to provide them with housing, energy and access to education.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this is a proposal to increase the eu budget for 2017 by €1.9 billion! the increase would be justified by security and cybersecurity expenditure, but also by more resources granted to members in the exercise of their mandate and by expenses related to the reception of visitors. in the face of budgetary constraints, the europe of nations and freedoms group is advocating savings for the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report gives us a picture of the bleak state of poverty in europe. between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union increased from 117 million to 122.6 million. in order to meet the poverty reduction objective of the europe 2020 strategy and the objectives of improving energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and using renewable energy, the report focuses union action on access to housing and the fight against energy poverty. the report calls on member states to 'apply reasonable rental policies'. it also proposes a european moratorium on winter heating cuts "to ensure that no household can be without electricity for a defined winter period". not a word about the responsibility for the economic disaster that is causing poverty! it's just a lot of friendly talk. i shall nevertheless vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i disapprove of the means used by the european union to achieve its europe 2020 objectives. the minimum tax rate is a matter for the member states. poverty varies from state to state. a common european approach would therefore lack pragmatism. i believe that the most appropriate means would be a targeted policy of each state on its territory. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. two approaches are therefore proposed. first, to promote the increase in the incomes of poor households by setting minimum incomes and strengthening social rights in order to guarantee sufficient state aid. secondly, to encourage a reduction in the expenditure of poor households, in particular by ensuring a better allocation of european funds. one of the problems with this report is that it does not deal with the issue of migrants, which is one of the causes of the impoverishment of the european population. the solutions it proposes are also contrary to the sovereignty of the member states. we therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ poverty is growing as the crisis deepens, and is being made worse by the arrival of migrants, but no european initiative is able to reverse the trend... european funds have only a minor impact on the policies undertaken by the member states, and policies such as the establishment of a minimum wage or the shift to taxation clearly fall within national competence. of course, the 'types' of poverty and the causes of poverty vary from one member state to another, which is why a common european approach is not very suitable. the best solution would be a targeted intervention by each member state to address poverty in its territory. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the fight against poverty and social exclusion is one of the five priorities of the european union for 2020. in this context, it has set itself the objective of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty. this report makes proposals to achieve these objectives in a difficult economic environment in many member states. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because europe must show more than ever that it is committed to its founding value: solidarity. 120 million europeans are at risk of falling into poverty, and this is an untenable fact. that is why, in voting for this report, i have defended my commitment to the sustainability of the european fund for the most deprived and the european social fund, which must be increased to meet this challenge. in the fight against poverty, no one can resign himself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the objectives of combating poverty in the context of rising household costs, which allows an analysis of the consequences of policies implemented to ensure stronger protection of households, especially the most disadvantaged. the definition of energy poverty in the report is also welcome, as it provides a clearer picture of the issues we are facing.
in writing. ‒ the fight against poverty is a constant battle. in 2013, about 16% of the european population were considered at risk of poverty after social transfers. at the same time, the european union, in its europe 2020 strategy, has set itself the objective of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty or social exclusion. for example, access to energy, and particularly heating, is a lever we can use. in this connection, the resolution i voted for calls on the member states to sign a moratorium on winter heating cuts to ensure that no household can be without electricity during the winter. more generally, the european commission was also asked to carry out an impact analysis on minimum income schemes in the member states, in particular to ensure that their levels are above the poverty line set at 60% of the national median income. finally, member states will have to ensure that the authorities at the various territorial levels effectively mobilise european funds which can help to combat energy poverty, social exclusion or poor housing quality.
in writing. ‒ the fight against poverty and social exclusion is one of the five objectives set by the european union for 2020, including the objective of reducing by 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty. the current situation is worrying and we are far from that objective: between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union increased from 117 million to 122.6 million. in 2013, 16.7% of the population of the european union were at risk of poverty after social transfers, 9.6% were in a situation of severe material deprivation and 10.7% of households were considered to be very low work intensity. i supported this text which calls for more investment in the fight against poverty and social exclusion and for an integrated approach. we must act quickly and develop genuine solidarity in the face of these alarming situations.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy aims to lift 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. to get closer to this objective, certain actions are being considered at european level. this text focuses in particular on the poverty of families in the context of the rising cost of housing, energy, and education. each state is responsible for its own policies against poverty. the european union does not have the prerogatives to establish a minimum wage. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality mean that the union does not have to pursue policies to combat poverty in the member states. the best solution would be a targeted intervention by each member state to address poverty in its territory. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ between 2008 and 2013, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union increased from 117 million to 122.6 million, or 16.7% of the population. this is contrary to the europe 2020 strategy's target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people living in or at risk of poverty by 2020. the report adopted calls on the commission and the member states to adopt a comprehensive approach to combating poverty by combining social, economic, education, employment, energy and transport policies and to sign a moratorium on winter heating cuts. it also called for an impact analysis of minimum income schemes in the european union and for better use of the structural funds. this own-initiative report does a fairly good job of analysing the situation. it is a pity that this is only a wishful thinking which does not call into question the very source of this development: austerity policies. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution on the private sector and development. i am in fact deeply opposed to public-private partnerships in the development process. i consider that there is a high level of corruption in this configuration and therefore these contributions do not constitute aid to the beneficiary population. this text is also completely out of touch with reality, since, in addition to wanting to increase considerably the funds which are already high, the vision here is to put the european economic model in the developing countries, while we know the low level of results of it. the text also fails to mention the main problems of development, such as natural resources, which are a major issue in this context, financial expropriation, the sovereignty of the states concerned. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the role of the private sector in development needs to be reassessed. it is important to integrate business into development aid, as population growth and income growth in the countries concerned are expected to lead to a strong growth of the global middle class and, in fact, a significant increase in consumption levels.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which calls on the eu member states to provide more than $2 billion in aid to develop the private sector in africa, which is considered to play a crucial role in development. apart from the burden of this aid on european taxpayers, the report focuses on a concept of unlimited growth which we are well placed to know is nothing but a decoy. moreover, the report makes no provision for addressing the uncertainties caused by substantial economic growth, such as the increase in demand for water or energy. and there is no mention of problems specific to africa, such as land grabbing or corruption. this text, an attempt to interfere with african states, is only intended to impose on these developing countries the western economic model, at a time when the west is perceiving its limits.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on the role of the private sector in the development of african countries in particular, and it estimates that the aid needed should exceed more than us$2 billion potentially coming from our states' coffers, unless public-private partnerships are further developed. the main option proposed is unbridled growth when the economic or ecological situation makes this impossible and a continuously upward curve is unlikely. it is believed that the main sectors of development that are conducive to development are energy, electricity or transport. the text also stresses bureaucracy problems or important issues such as sustainable development, which is obviously not enough for the development of the countries concerned. the text actually seeks to emulate a model of global governance and policies that have not worked in other countries (what about state sovereignty?) but forgets to address problems such as corruption or natural resources. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution on the private sector and development. i am in fact deeply opposed to public-private partnerships in the development process. i consider that there is a high level of corruption in this configuration and therefore these contributions do not constitute aid to the beneficiary population. the text is also completely out of touch with reality, since, in addition to the desire to increase considerably the funds which are already high, the vision here is to put the european economic model in the developing countries, whereas we know that the level of results is low. the text also fails to mention the main development problems, such as natural resources, which are a major issue, financial expropriation and the sovereignty of the states concerned. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out a framework for action to strengthen the role of the private sector in developing countries, with a view to achieving inclusive and sustainable growth. i supported this report because i believe that the private sector has a key role to play in the development and growth of states, and particularly developing countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the private sector and development because it aims, in particular, to strengthen the capacity of cooperatives, microenterprises and local smes and to involve them in the policy dialogue. the report also notes the importance of anti-corruption measures, good governance and the rule of law, and thus the development of the private sector.
in writing. ‒ the report is based on the role of the private sector in the development of african countries in particular. he believes that the aid needed should be more than $2 billion, all of which would potentially come from our national coffers, unless public-private partnerships are further developed. it is stated that taxpayers would probably not be inclined to pay this... the report is entirely focused on the concept of unlimited growth, with the consequent increase in demand for energy, food and water, without, of course, indicating any recipe for answering these very serious questions. the only option offered is perpetual growth and economic success, with private investment, the ultimate goal being growth without limits, while we know that this is impossible... i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which follows the commission's communication proposing a framework for action to strengthen the role of the private sector in developing countries. the private sector provides 90% of jobs in developing countries and is therefore a key partner in the fight against poverty. it also has a role to play as an investor in sustainable agricultural production to meet the challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is obsessed with public-private partnerships (ppp). i am opposed to ppps, which are almost always a boon for large private groups, at the expense of sound management of public money.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this report aims to promote the role of the private sector in the development of the least developed countries (ldcs). he points to some structural obstacles, such as bureaucracy and even corruption. however, it advocates objectives which are difficult to achieve in terms of public aid to the ldcs. in addition, the draft report advocates increased use of intergovernmental bodies, which is not an appropriate solution.
in writing. - the report starts with a biased finding. the private sector is said to generate 90% of jobs and income in developing countries. but what jobs and at what cost? the report notes the weakness of public resources, which are hampered by imf loans. rather than promoting real public policies in these countries, it advocates public-private partnerships. these contracts entrust a private operator with the supervision of the works and the operation of a collective equipment. behind the legal novelty, there is a powerful tool for expropriating citizens and public power. worse, the report calls for private participation in the design of public development policies. finally, the report calls for diplomats on the ground to be trained, like vrps, to sell the concept to african countries. in the end, we are left to hope that the private sector will reduce land grabbing. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for more than €2 billion in aid for the private sector in african countries. the dogma of (unlimited) growth is also reaffirmed, linked to that of sustainable development. endless growth is a liberal myth, our infinite desire will collide with our finite resources. furthermore, i believe that sustainable development is a charm that masks the madness and damage of the project. finally, the panel that oversaw the research and development programme includes 250 multinationals, which have few rules other than that of making a profit. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report estimates that development aid for african countries should exceed usd 2 billion and be financed through public-private partnerships. the development envisaged is purely illusory and no investment is proposed to solve the serious problems (food, water, energy). we are voting against this text which calls for the financing of projects which will only benefit multinational companies and which will only aggravate the problems of land expropriation, corruption and loss of sovereignty of african states.
in writing. ‒ this report is incomplete: nothing on natural resources, important issues for developed countries and multinationals, very little on land expropriation or corruption, etc. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes measures to involve the public and private sectors in the development of developing countries. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the deva report on the private sector and development. the private sector provides 90 per cent of jobs in developing countries. it is therefore a key partner in the fight against poverty. it also has a role to play as an investor in sustainable agricultural production to meet the challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050. given the capacity of the private sector to generate inclusive and sustainable growth in developing countries, businesses, associations and employers' and workers' organisations in particular are playing an increasingly active role in the field of development, both as a source of funding and as partners of public authorities, non-governmental organisations (ngos). a recent evaluation of eu private sector development assistance between 2004 and 2010 confirmed the commission's significant contribution to private sector development in partner countries and identified ways to improve future programmes and strategies, in particular with a view to focusing on decent job creation and mainstreaming private sector participation in all eu support activities.
in writing. ‒ the private sector is, as we know, essential for development. it is responsible for most of the economic activity through its role as an investor and job creator. in developing countries, the private sector provides almost 90% of jobs and is an important partner for public authorities, ngos and donors. i therefore voted in favour of this text to support the european parliament's work on development aid and to enable the proposed strategic framework to be put in place to strengthen the role of the private sector, and thus achieve inclusive and sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the importance of private sector actors for development, particularly in countries beyond europe's borders. the annual global expenditure in developing countries is not high enough and has so far been over-supported by the taxpayer. participating in development in areas where it is needed is a win-win for all: for the people and the states that are not yet sufficiently integrated into the world economy, but also for our european companies that will find new levers of growth in the developing countries. finally, the role of the european investment bank (eib) must be emphasised in order to increase its involvement in the project financing effort.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the link between the private sector and development policy. it is essential to recall that the private sector accounts for 84% of the gdp of developing countries and is therefore an essential player in development policy and the fight against poverty. the text recommends the development of a long-term strategy with the private sector, particularly in order to stimulate and increase investment. these private sector partnerships should be based on shared values and priorities, with specific development objectives, and managed in cooperation with partner countries. a second focus developed in this report is support for the local private sector in developing countries by supporting microenterprises which often face significant regulatory constraints. the aim is to encourage european and international businesses to contribute to the sustainable development goals and the implementation of internationally agreed standards. i supported this text because it states that public-private partnerships established within a specific framework, structured, transparent and with a clear distribution of responsibilities, constitute important opportunities for the development of the partner countries, particularly in terms of employment and investment.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the issue of private sector development assistance to africa. it states that the consequences of these investments should be growth for the private sector. this growth would then be unlimited and that is what underlies the whole package. the text is in fact intended to copy the european economic model in africa and i am aware of all the harmful consequences that this can have. i therefore follow the approach of my colleague louis aliot, who voted against it in committee by voting against it in my turn.
in writing. ‒ the management of 'public' development aid (oda) is increasingly being transferred to the private sector due to budgetary constraints. in fact, development policies are increasingly being handed over to the interests of private investors. while the report calls for increased public investment in education, access to clean water and health, it also encourages the development of public-private partnerships (ppps). the partnerships in the field of education are even welcomed, when they must be "profitable" and there is no need to remind us of the detrimental effects of such practices. it is even proposed to increase public technical assistance to the private sector for the setting up of these ppps, and to train the european union delegations in the country for this purpose. the integration of the private sector and neoliberal logic into the design of official development assistance is dangerous, to say the least, for the recipient countries. the developed countries would do better to meet their commitments (0.7% of gnp) which are 45 years old and still not met, with rare exceptions. i voted against this report.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are being asked to discuss the impact of the refugee crisis on the european transport sector. let me start by saying that i am extremely uncomfortable with that formulation. when we count nine refugees who have died on the edge of the channel tunnel since june 2015, it is not the rail sector that has been impacted. when 70 refugees died in a refrigerated truck in austria in august 2015, it was not road transport that was to blame. when, in the mediterranean, there are 4,000 deaths a year since 2014, it is not maritime transport that pays the heaviest toll. this type of reasoning, which consists of pointing the finger at refugees, i will tell you where it is found: sometimes in speeches, especially from the enf group! last week, the rapporteur, mrs arnautu, from the national front, presented her report on the revision of the regulation on the coastguard and border guard to the committee on transport and tourism, in which she essentially told us that what is regrettable about the refugee crisis is that, and i quote her, "in 2015 several hundred commercial vessels were forced to turn away to take part in rescue operations". let us be serious, the problem is not the refugees, it may still be the smugglers, or at least the conflict that is raging in syria and elsewhere, and above all the inability of the member states to organise a dignified reception for all these people. so i make an urgent appeal to the commission and my colleagues here: we cannot properly study the impact of the refugee crisis until we have first tried everything to stem it. in my own area, i can tell you, there is a mayor, damien carême, mayor of the city of grande-synthe, who has set up a humanitarian camp to give refugees a dignified welcome, while, on the other hand, other refugees in other countries, notably in bulgaria, are tied up, and in austria, they even decide to build a wall. the european response must be adequate, otherwise it is a disgrace to the european union. we all have a responsibility in the words we choose, in the rhetoric we use, but also in the actions we take and commit. so let's stop charging the refugees the bill!
mr president, i thank you for your efforts to speak all the languages of the european union. yes, merchant ships are diverted from their course to save lives. more than 800 vessels rescued more than 40,000 people in 2014, mainly in the mediterranean. you have to salute them. they have done their duty against all odds and have, in turn, respected international law. however, unhcr warns that more and more ships are changing their route to avoid areas where they could encounter migrant boats. they are afraid of the economic, but above all the legal, consequences of their military involvement. thirty thousand deaths in the mediterranean alone since 2000; 3,770 in 2015, an all-time record. yes, the european continent has become the deadliest in the world for migrants. italy had set the example in 2014, but the union only released an additional five million, while italian operations had cost 95 million euros. the responsibility of smugglers and traffickers is rightly pointed out. we're releasing resources, including military. these operations are costly and will have only a limited effect. they only affect the lamplighters. the smuggling networks are constantly reorganising themselves, placing migrants at ever greater risk and at ever greater cost, including within the european union. it is now the third largest source of income for them, after drugs and weapons, and they are often the ones who are in charge. the more we close the borders, the more we play the smugglers' game. since 2000, more than €13 billion has been spent on closing borders. with what result? this money would be more useful for saving lives and respecting international law and the rights of migrants and refugees. the european union and its member states must be involved in resolving the global humanitarian crisis that is unfolding before our eyes. yes, we must reopen internal borders, implement a large-scale european operation for rescue at sea, open humanitarian corridors for refugees and legal access routes for migrants, so that they are no longer forced to take risks. yes, if the member states were to take their responsibilities in accordance with international and european law, we would not need this surreal debate.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we already have the connected car, the autonomous car will probably arrive within ten years, and the autonomous car will soon be here. it's a small revolution that deserves revolutionary change. we are inventing robot law in this house. legislation is therefore essential, with real questions. if an accident occurs, who will be held responsible, since it will no longer be the driver? will it be the builder? the hardware guys? the internet actors? how can we be sure that the manufacturer has done the right things up front to ensure that the automated car meets all the standards in place? no more driving schools! we now need a genuinely new code of the road to ensure road safety. but above all, transparency is needed so that passengers, and also employees, are not held hostage to the fierce competition between manufacturers and, through them, the european states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. we can see this in the national investigations carried out in france and belgium following the volkswagen scandal last year, which our parliament is investigating in earnest. so i say calmly, in its communication, the european commission speaks of the need for international cooperation between states and their manufacturers. i would go even further: we need a european typeapproval agency, starting today, for emissions testing and tomorrow for automation. this leads logically to the question, of course, of fuel. what are these vehicles going to do? is it to give diesel a second youth? of course not! we know that this fuel causes thousands of cancers every year, and it's just another scam for consumers. so what's the point? you have to think about a car that really does pollute less. i'm going to go over the car itself. if the automated car is a way to boost the competitiveness of the automotive sector to overwhelm other modes of transport again, to boost congestion in cities even more, and if it's designed for the city and not for pedestrians, what's the point? on the contrary, let us make the automated car a pillar of sustainable urban mobility by developing, for example, the car-sharing system. finally, there are other challenges that need to be addressed. when will the states decide to start consultations with cities and local authorities to review traffic plans? it's the whole layout that needs to be revised. what guarantees are there that the automated car, already connected and soon intelligent, will respect data protection? and finally, what will happen to the millions of europeans who work as drivers? we've been doing a lot of work since the vtcs came along. lawmakers are often petrified by the battle between taxis and uber. but, in the end, in the end, they're all gonna be faced with a fait accompli. so what are they gonna do? will they burn their automated cars to prevent them from being put on the road? mr president, the car is making a revolution. good, we need it. but let us also learn from the mistakes made by the manufacturers in recent years, and let us not forget that technology will not work unless there are intelligent human beings behind it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the self-driving car is a technological dream on the verge of becoming a reality. semi-autonomous cars are already on the market today, which park themselves, turn themselves and brake themselves. tomorrow, the driver will be a passenger in his own car. the time and comfort gains could be huge, but it is in safety that the most anticipated improvements are made, as most of the 26 000 deaths on european roads each year are due to human error. how many lives can we save with new technology? however, many obstacles remain, and many questions remain to be resolved. these questions have been raised before and i will refer to them again. who will be responsible in case of an accident? how can we adapt our road and telecommunications infrastructure? how can the action of the various road users be coordinated? furthermore, self-driving cars will necessarily be connected cars, which also raises questions. how can we ensure that they cannot be hacked and what about data protection? if we can manage to respond to these questions in a coordinated way, europe will have the means to become a leader in this new industrial revolution.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i simply have a political question. this report calls for more european integration and more federalism. so, madam president, do you agree, as does the european commissioner, mr moscovici, to create a super european finance minister, so that we can once again go beyond the sovereignty of states?
madam president, commissioner, mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr pirinski for his excellent report, but i would like to address you today, mr president hoyer. you represent an institution with a near monopoly on the guarantees of the european union's financial instruments. the billions that your bank has been brewing are those of european citizens. i wanted to make this reminder in the preamble to reiterate that you are a bank, but you do not represent a bank like the others. your bank's primary purpose is to serve the public interest. i will therefore take advantage of this debate on the 2014 balance sheet to also anticipate the balance sheets for 2015, 2016 and even 2017, which are the years of implementation of the european fund for strategic investments of the juncker plan. we, the socialists and democrats, have clearly called for this investment plan, aware of the investment deficit that europe has suffered since the crisis of 2008. but now, after a year of implementation, we have some concerns. we wanted a plan that would allow for additional investment in europe. however, we see in 2015 an activity of the eib comparable to that of 2012, or about eur 80 billion. has the sacrifice of €8 billion from the eu budget been worthwhile? in other words, by the end of this year - the year 2016 - will we have reduced the annual investment deficit, currently estimated at around eur 300 billion, and by how much? parliament voted to set up a scoreboard to select projects on the basis of their social and environmental added value. i also wanted to know whether it was used in the selection process and, more specifically, how you assess job creation in selection, because in paris and brussels i meet people with innovative projects and job creators who are rejected because their applications are too risky. but, mr president, we have released €16 billion in guarantees from the union budget so that you can keep your triple a while investing in more risky projects. do you consider yourself to have fulfilled your part of the contract? mr president, we have given you a great responsibility - we are aware of that - but we are also accountable for the results. that is why we are waiting for definite answers.
madam president, in a period of recession, the eib's activities have become one of the few sources of economic growth in europe. the eib is still a functioning institution, but it is the creation of the juncker plan, the efsi, which must ensure the promotion of the eurocrats among the peoples who are victims of their ultra-liberal economic policy. i would remind you that this plan provides for eur 315 billion of new investment in europe, with an additional eur 60 billion of eib investment. i am therefore concerned that, for political purposes, efsi financing will be substituted for eib financing. the total amount of eib loans will thus decrease over a four-year horizon in favour of efsi loans, which are much more expensive. we will therefore be extremely vigilant in maintaining the level of eib loans, which we do not want to see replaced by efsi loans. the juncker plan must demonstrate its real effectiveness.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i have a minute to talk to you about a subject that may seem minor. three billion euros: this is what the european parliament has not been able to control since 2009, simply because the commission and the council are playing ping-pong with each other. the council refuses to give its accounts to the european parliament and the commission refuses to incorporate the council's budget into its own accounts. we are therefore unable, as members of parliament, to control the accounts at a time when transparency and the need for information are more than necessary. the committee on constitutional affairs is taking advantage of the presence of the commission and the council to ask them to try to reach agreement and to discuss with the european parliament the absolutely ridiculous situation - legally and economically - that the council's accounts are beyond any budgetary control.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the complex architecture of the european union leads to misallocations, exorbitant costs, unacceptable waste and an opacity both in terms of technical and control aspects which distances the european problem from the peoples and nations. too often the same mistakes are repeated year after year and mistakes made in the past are almost never corrected. the only satisfaction is the quality of the court of auditors' work, which enables members to better identify the problem and try to deal with it. there are still questions to be answered, in particular, as regards the use by the president of the european parliament of the institution's resources for electoral purposes, as was said earlier. the answers given by the rapporteur were not clear, and i find it surprising that the epp and the socialists are co-signing the deletions of amendments on this sensitive issue. perhaps olaf should look into this embarrassing issue, as it tarnishes the whole institution.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the questions put by the european parliament raise two problems in my view. firstly, i am opposed to the automatic recognition of adoptions in other member states. such automatic recognition would inevitably extend to adoptions by same-sex couples and to adoptions of children from surrogacy. i don't approve of gpas or adoptions by same-sex couples. secondly, i am suspicious of the concept of the best interests of the child, which is being used to deconstruct the traditional family. just as "living together" aims to legitimize communitarianism, the best interests of the child aims to tear the child away from its natural substratum. i am convinced that the best interests of the child are to be raised in a family with a father and a mother.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, i am sure you are convinced of the goodness of europe. europe, where everything flows freely: goods, people, capital and... love. yes, love is the answer. erasmus is also the europe of love, the europe which has enabled more than two million students to discover a new country and which, according to a commission study, has contributed to the birth of about one million erasmus babies. for that alone, i want to say "long live europe, long live love"! but you see, sometimes love is short-lived, and sometimes parents are torn about where the child lives, each party obviously advocating for the child's best interests. europe is not all love, alas! social problems and accidents of life also affect families, especially the most fragile. here too we are confronted with the force of national laws, with a judiciary which does not always cooperate with third countries when it comes to foreign families. all of these situations cause suffering to families, especially to children. of course, no one claims that the various decisions made here and there are against the child, but one can be wrong in good faith. the principle that there are more than one head in several heads means that we must do everything possible to ensure that the member states cooperate and work together to consider the best possible options, all the options, without any taboo or bias. this is the meaning of this resolution, which is modest and does not claim to be the absolute key to all the problems facing europe, but which wants to send a clear message to the commission, the council and the member states: no borders for the rights of the child!
mr president, today we have an example of the pernicious manipulation of the law: the rights of the child and the cross-border question. under the pretext that there are situations, which i admit are complex, of the recognition and adoption of children, in this particular context the european union arrogates to itself the right to decide for the states. i will say no three times: no, the union does not have to deal with questions of family law; the european union is not the only guardian of rights, especially when national problems are judged in the light of the european charter of fundamental rights, whereas there is no clear violation of its principles, but only a legal tension between states. no, the best interests of the child are not to open the door, as some here intend to do, to european recommendations in favour of the recognition and authorisation of questionable medical reproductive techniques and the destruction of our natural family model. we're on our toes, and we're not gonna let anything go.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, once again europe is giving itself up to the will of turkey. this deal is a deal of shame. this is not a deal that's gonna solve the problem. what will happen, in fact, once the number of 72,000 migrants is (very quickly) exceeded? turkey will be ruthless in implementing the parts of the agreement which provide for the total liberalization of the visa regime, the resumption of the accession process and the payment of the promised 6 billion euros. you no longer have the capacity to govern or negotiate. you're looking for a way out of this crisis. you are hostages to an agreement made on the backs of the european nations. with 72,000 migrants plus 80 million turks, you are creating an uncontrollable flow of migration at a time when you should be protecting europe's borders.
madam president, on saturday 23 april mr tusk and mrs merkel visited gaziantep in eastern turkey, where there is a camp for 5,000 syrian refugees. is this camp, which serves as a showcase, representative of the living conditions of the millions of refugees on turkish soil? of course not. but does it matter to those who signed this filthy deal with the erdoğan government? i'm sure you didn't. a few days earlier, amnesty international had expressed concern about the possible illegal deportation of dozens of refugees to syria, and the situation of hundreds of thousands of others is still unclear. the tour, however, seems to have been enough for mr tusk to give the turkish government a slap on the wrist and ask us to look elsewhere. there is still time to get our heads together and respond to the emergency by creating legal channels and by issuing thousands of humanitarian visas. to live up to its values, the union must face the facts and help those fleeing war and barbarism.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president, madam commissioner, europe has spent a great deal of time, energy and money over the years on restructuring the railway sector: defining the trans-european networks, putting in place new regulatory, technical and financial means to support their development and, through the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, defragmenting the networks by means of regulatory, regulatory and technical interconnection. even if we would have preferred european piloting to ertms, we can only welcome the harmonization of safety rules, the effective interoperability of national rail systems and, above all, the strengthening and new responsibilities of the european railway agency, a real control tower of the rail system. the attractiveness of rail is clearly based on its ability to offer cross-border users a safe, secure, efficient, regular and easily accessible service. these new texts, by ensuring the pooling of safety and interoperability standards, make it possible to defragment european railways technically at a time when the progress of other modes of transport risks marginalizing a railway mode that is lacking in investment and economic dynamism. for these reasons and in view of the progress made, our group will support the proposal. finally, i would like to thank mr roberts zīle for his excellent cooperation and the other two rapporteurs.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today marks an important milestone for the railway sector. it is a step towards harmonization and simplification: we harmonize the technical rules, we harmonize the safety standards. the railway industry was in dire need of it. this will prevent us in future from having to deal with absurd situations such as the thalys, which needs nine control systems to cross four countries! this is not how european rail will compete with, say, road or air transport. so when a train crosses a border in europe, it should be as easy for it as it is for a bus or a lorry. but it's not over. we still need to develop intermodality policies, incentives for modal shift. at this price we will gain modal shares in the road sector and meet the co2 reduction targets set at cop 21. finally, my final point of satisfaction concerns the users, who are promised better safety and savings if the operators play their part and pass on the economic gains to the ticket price.
mr president, the union has started by liberalizing freight transport by rail. as a result, the industry continues to collapse. in france, it has fallen by 30% over the last ten years. freight is dying from the european reforms and you want to extend these rules to passenger transport? another factor is competition in the road haulage industry, which provides jobs for tens of thousands of eastern european drivers, often earning less than 300 euros a month. how was this exploitation made possible? another of your liberalisations: road freight. a few small concessions to the socialists will enable them to vote tomorrow in favour of this reform before they cry over its consequences: wage dumping, the social consequences of low cost and territorial inequalities. the states will not be able to ask for more security than the european agency requires, or else their decisions will be reversed because of disguised protectionism. the sovereign state in its choices, that's the enemy! a railway agency of european officials eager to dictate their decisions to the states is the panacea! (the president asked the speaker to conclude) this reform will benefit railway employees and, in the medium term, users, particularly those in regions which are already neglected. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. ‒ the logical consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to draw the logical consequences of croatia's accession to the european union by allowing it to become a party to the agreement on the creation of a common airspace between the union and georgia. whatever our previous positions on croatia's accession and the air agreements with georgia, there is no reason to oppose this report which is only supplementing an already approved accession. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to endorse croatia's participation in the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement following its accession to the eu. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following its accession to the european union, croatia is required to ratify the agreements that the union has concluded with third countries. the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the union and georgia, signed in 2014, therefore requires the approval of the european parliament to enter into force in croatia. even if we are against the endless enlargement of the european union, i do not think there is any reason to oppose this report, which is the logical consequence of croatia's accession from a legal point of view. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the european parliament's consent to the ratification of an additional protocol to enable croatia's accession to the agreement between the european union and georgia on the establishment of a common airspace. i think it is right that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should become a party to the agreement, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ following croatia's accession to the european union in 2013, croatia is required to accede to the agreements concluded by the union with third countries before its accession. in this case, the report aims to enable croatia to become a party to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia. whatever the previous positions of the fn members on croatia's accession and the air agreements with georgia and israel, there is no legal reason to oppose the logical consequences of croatia's accession. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: logical consequences of the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ there is no reason to oppose the logical consequences of croatia's accession as expressed in these two micro-reports. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow croatia to become a party to the agreement on the creation of a common airspace between the european union, its member states and georgia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the creation of a common eu-georgia airspace. following the accession of croatia to the european union in 2013, croatia is required to accede to the agreements concluded by the union with third countries before its accession, in this case georgia. there is no reason to oppose the logical consequences of croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it merely endorses croatia's participation in the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement following its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ croatia joined the european union in 2013. it is logical that it should be in step with european regulations and, in particular, its agreements with third countries. the text therefore recommends that it be included in the agreement on the creation of airspace with georgia. i believe that as a new member state croatia should be included in all european agreements, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this report follows croatia's accession to the european union in 2013. in this case, it is a question of enabling croatia to become a party to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia. our position on the enlargement of the european union to include croatia is of little importance in this case. we have no reason to object to this purely practical report.
in writing. the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia was signed on 2 december 2010. and on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the european union. the report aims to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia. while the protocol does not make any substantial changes to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace, it nevertheless pursues its objective of liberalising the air market with the potential risks this poses to passenger safety. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to allow croatia to be fully integrated into the joint agreements on the creation of eu-georgia airspace. croatia joined the union almost three years ago, so it was only natural that it should be included in these agreements. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following croatia's accession to the union in 2013, croatia is required to accede to the agreements concluded by the union with third countries before its accession, in this case georgia and israel. the purpose of the agreement is to enable croatia to become a party to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia. the protocol here submitted to the ep agreement signed in november 2014 requires the approval of the european parliament to enter into force. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ although in the past opposed to croatia's eu accession, these air agreements with georgia and israel are only the logical consequences of croatia's accession. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to enable croatia to become a party to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia. the protocol here submitted to the ep agreement signed in november 2014 requires the approval of the european parliament to enter into force. this is a simple compliance exercise after croatia's accession to the european union. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol allowing the republic of croatia to become a party to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia, signed on 2 december 2010. it was a technical adjustment.
in writing. ‒ the logical consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to endorse, following its accession to the eu, croatia's participation in the eu-israel common aviation area agreement. whatever our previous positions on the accession of croatia and the air agreements with israel, there is no reason to oppose this report which is only supplementing an already approved accession. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu and israel have an agreement on a common airspace. the subject of the report voted on here must make it possible to endorse, following croatia's accession to the eu, its participation in the agreement on this existing common airspace. it is a way of maintaining the existing links between the eu and israel and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following its accession to the european union, croatia is required to ratify the agreements that the union has concluded with third countries. the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and israel, signed in june 2013, therefore requires the approval of the european parliament to enter into force in croatia. even if we are against the endless enlargement of the european union, i do not think there is any reason to oppose this report, which is the logical consequence of croatia's accession from a legal point of view. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the european parliament's consent to the ratification of an additional protocol to enable croatia's accession to the eu-israel euro-mediterranean agreement on air services. i think it is only right that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should become a party to the agreement, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia to the union in 2013, that state is required to accede to agreements previously concluded by the union with third countries, in this case israel. the purpose of the protocol is to allow croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and israel, signed in june 2013. whatever the previous positions of the fn members on croatia's accession and the air agreements with georgia and israel, there is no legal reason to oppose the logical consequences of croatia's accession. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: logical consequences of the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ there is no reason to oppose the logical consequences of croatia's accession as stated in this micro-report. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean agreement on air services between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the government of the state of israel, on the other.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on the creation of a common eu-israel airspace. following the accession of croatia to the european union in 2013, croatia is required to accede to the agreements concluded by the union with third countries, in this case israel, before its accession. there is no reason to oppose the logical consequences of croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it merely endorses croatia's participation in the eu-israel common aviation area agreement following its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ in june 2013, the european union concluded an air services agreement with israel. since croatia joined the eu at the same time, it was not able to take part in this euro-mediterranean agreement. the rapporteur proposes to correct this delay. i voted for it, logically.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. this report follows croatia's accession to the european union in 2013. in this case, the aim is to allow croatia to become a party to the eu-israel air services agreement signed in june 2013. our position on the enlargement of the european union to include croatia is of little importance in this case. we have no reason to object to this purely practical report.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel was signed on 10 june 2013. and on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the european union and became its 28th member state. the report aims to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and the government of the state of israel. while the protocol does not make any substantial changes to the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace, it nevertheless pursues its objective of liberalising the air market with the potential risks this poses to passenger safety. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to allow croatia to be fully integrated into the joint agreements on the creation of eu-israel airspace. croatia joined the union almost three years ago, so it was only natural that it should be included in these agreements. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following croatia's accession to the union in 2013, croatia is required to accede to the agreements concluded by the union with third countries before its accession, in this case georgia and israel. as regards israel, the purpose of the protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and israel. the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and israel was signed in june 2013. the protocol here submitted to the ep agreement signed in february 2015 needs the approval of the european parliament to enter into force. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ although in the past opposed to croatia's eu accession, these air agreements with georgia and israel are only the logical consequences of croatia's accession. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks parliament's approval of croatia's accession to the euro-mediterranean agreement on air services between the european union, its member states and the state of israel, which was signed on 10 june 2013. as croatia joined the european union only on 1 july 2013, it was not a party to the agreement, although as a member state it has a full place in it. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the protocol is to enable croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and israel. the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the european union and israel was signed in june 2013. the protocol here submitted to the ep agreement signed in february 2015 needs the approval of the european parliament to enter into force. this is a simple compliance exercise after croatia's accession to the european union. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean air services agreement between the eu and israel was signed on 10 june 2013 and is an important aspect in the establishment of a common airspace between the eu and its southern and eastern neighbours. the objective of the protocol which i have approved is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to this agreement. it was a technical adjustment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives parliament's approval to the application of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on air services between the union, the member states and the government of the state of israel, to take account of the accession of croatia. the commission notes that the air carrier ryanair has been granted a number of concessions in the past, including the extension of the airport's capacity to include the airport of the same name. the agreement with israel is fundamental because israel is the leading partner in this area in the region. the accession of croatia to that agreement does not entail any substantial amendment to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the logical consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. i abstained on this report, the consequences of which will be harmful to croatia, even if they are the result of its own free choice.
in writing. ‒ the national front has always rejected, in the interests of the applicant countries themselves, any new process of accession to the european union; i therefore cannot vote in favour of this text on croatia's accession to the convention of 18 december 1997 on the judicial procedure for customs offences and for criminal and illicit activities. however, i cannot oppose this convention, the text of which aims at optimal cooperation in customs matters between the administrations of the 28 countries. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations following the accession of croatia to the eu in 2013. the convention of 18 december 1997, based on article k.3, governs judicial procedures in cases of customs offences or criminal or illegal activities. croatia has sovereignly decided to accede to this convention, the text of which is concerned with optimal cooperation in customs matters between the administrations of the 28 countries. however, the fn has always refused any new accession process, including that of croatia, in the interests of the candidate countries and i have therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an ordinary procedure following croatia's accession to the european union in 2013. the european parliament must now give its opinion on croatia's accession to the convention of 18 december 1997 governing judicial procedures in cases of customs offences or criminal and illegal activities. although we are against the indefinite enlargement of the european union, i do not think there is any reason to oppose this report, which is the logical consequence of croatia's accession from a legal point of view. the convention is not a negative one, however, in that it aims to strengthen cooperation between the customs administrations of the member states. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the european parliament's position on the commission's recommendation to the council to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union and thus to bring the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations into force for this new member. i think it is only right that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should become a party to the agreement, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a normal procedure following croatia's accession to the european union in 2013. the convention of 18 december 1997, based on article k.3, governs judicial procedures in cases of customs offences or criminal or illegal activities. it is difficult, however, to vote in favour of this text, since the front national has always refused (in the interests of the candidate countries) further enlargements of the union, including to croatia. this accession is nevertheless a gradual and voluntary process resulting from a sovereign choice of croatia. which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ abstention: this is an ordinary procedure following croatia's accession to the european union in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i could not oppose the text because it concerns optimal cooperation in customs matters between the administrations of the 28 countries, especially since this accession is a sovereign choice of croatia. i have decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow croatia to become a party to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this text has the merit of organising customs cooperation between the 28 member states, but it also draws the consequences of croatia's accession to the eu, which i am opposed to in principle.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. this text is a formality following croatia's accession to the european union. this is the accession of the latter to the convention of 18 december 1997 governing judicial procedures in cases of customs offences or criminal or illegal activity. given our opposition to the process of enlargement of the european union, it is difficult to support this text. however, cooperation between member states in the fight against crime can be useful.
in writing. ‒ a council of the european union convention was adopted in brussels on 18 december 1997 called the 'naples 2 convention' on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union. this agreement governs the exchange of information, the investigation teams, the dispatch of liaison officers and the procedures for requests for measures or information between a requesting european customs authority and a requested customs authority. as a result of croatia's accession to the eu on 1 july 2013, croatia must ratify the convention. i am opposed to croatia's accession and i abstain.
in writing. ‒ while i respect croatia's sovereign choice in its gradual accession, we have always opposed the enlargement of membership, in the interests of the countries. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this is a normal procedure following croatia's accession to the european union in 2013. the convention of 18 december 1997, based on article k.3, governs judicial procedures in cases of customs offences or criminal or illegal activities. the accession of croatia will be gradual but voluntary. it is difficult to vote for a text when the front national has always refused (in the interests of the candidate countries) any new accession process, including that of croatia. however, this is a sovereign choice of croatia, requiring abstention on our part.
in writing. ‒ although i reject any new accession process, including that of croatia, this convention on optimal customs cooperation between the administrations of the 28 countries is only a logical consequence of the process. the accession of croatia is a sovereign choice. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to give parliament's approval to the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, signed on 18 december 1997. the commission notes that the commission has not yet received any comments from croatia on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the convention of 18 december 1997, on the basis of article k.3, governs judicial procedures in cases of customs offences or criminal or illegal activities. croatia must join because it has just joined the european union. i do not want to encourage new states to take the risk of joining and therefore i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported croatia, which has been an eu member since 2013, joining the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. it was a technical adjustment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the commission's recommendation concerning croatia's accession to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. as a reminder, a simplified accession system is provided for croatia's accession to conventions and protocols concluded by member states.
in writing. ‒ vote on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member for speeding. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which called for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr boleslaw piecha, an mep who is alleged to have committed a traffic offence; the fact that the facts complained of have no connection with his political mandate, and that there is nothing in the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity made by the polish public prosecutor's office to suggest that this request is motivated by any desire to persecute.
in writing. ‒ i naturally voted for this report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of boleslaw g. piecha because the parliamentarian in question was simply speeding and the waiver of his immunity does not directly affect his activities as a member of parliament or seek to harm him personally. on the other hand, i welcome the fact that my group, the enf, is finally able to have reports presented in plenary, thus respecting our democratic legitimacy (all committees should thus function in the same way).
in writing. ‒ there is no direct link between the alleged facts and mr piecha's mandate as an mep. there is no fumus persecutionis. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ mr boleslaw g. piecha, polish member of the european parliament, has admitted to a traffic offence by driving his personal vehicle at a speed of over 30 km/h above the authorised speed limit. in order to be able to pay his fine, the inspector-general of road traffic asked the european parliament to lift his parliamentary immunity. firstly, the facts alleged have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of the european parliament. on the other hand, there is no evidence that this legal action is motivated by a desire to persecute. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ a vehicle driven by mep bolesław piecha was caught on radar while travelling at a speed exceeding the authorised speed limit of 30km/h. this constitutes an offence under article 92a of the polish law of 20 may 1971 on the code of minor offences. mr bolesław piecha has acknowledged the facts and agrees to pay the fine for his offence. but under polish law, his parliamentary immunity must be waived in order for this fine to be paid. the inspector-general for road traffic therefore requested the european parliament, by letter of 5 october 2015, to waive the immunity of mr bolesław piecha. as the alleged acts have no direct connection with mr piecha's mandate as a member of the european parliament, i voted for the waiver of his immunity, since there is no other reason to believe that the prosecution would constitute an act of persecution.
in writing. ‒ vote for: his parliamentary immunity must be lifted so that this speeding fine can be paid.
in writing. ‒ the facts complained of have no direct link with mr piecha's mandate as an mep. there is no indication that the persecution was motivated by a desire to persecute. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of polish mep boleslaw g. piecha, following a traffic offence.
in writing. ‒ a vehicle driven by mr bolesław piecha was photographed by radar while travelling at a speed of 30 km/h above the authorised speed. mr. bolesław piecha has admitted to the facts and agrees to pay the fine for his offence. but under polish law, his parliamentary immunity must be waived in order for this fine to be paid. that is why the inspector general of road traffic asked the european parliament to lift the immunity of mr bolesław piecha. the facts complained of have no direct connection with mr piecha's mandate as a member of the european parliament. there is no evidence that the persecution was motivated by a desire for political persecution. i therefore voted to waive his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr piecha's parliamentary immunity because he is simply being prosecuted for speeding which he does not contest. the prosecution therefore has no connection with his parliamentary mandate and is not dictated by a desire for political persecution. it should be noted that i was the lead rapporteur for this report, which explains why it bears my name. this is the first time since the 2014 european elections that an fn mep has taken on the role of lead rapporteur.
in writing. - i voted for this text. in this case, it's a simple traffic violation. the car of mp boleslaw g. piecha was spotted speeding by a radar in poland. the person concerned acknowledges the facts. the country's inspector general of road traffic is therefore asking the european parliament to waive mr piecha's immunity. we have no reason to object to this report.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded a request from the polish inspector general of road transport requesting the waiver of the immunity of bolesław g. piecha, polish mep in the ecr group. mr piecha was arrested while travelling at 90 km/h in a 60 km/h restricted area. since the alleged offence took place before bolesław g. piecha became a member of the european parliament and has no direct or obvious connection with the exercise by bolesław g. piecha of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ member of parliament piecha, having admitted to speeding, agreed to pay the fine. however, this requires the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. the facts complained of are not directly related to the performance of his duties as a member of parliament. there is no indication that the prosecution is motivated by a desire to cause him political harm. as a result, i voted to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ a vehicle driven by mr bolesław piecha was photographed by radar while travelling at a speed of 30 km/h above the authorised speed. this constitutes an offence under article 92a of the polish law of 20 may 1971 on the code of minor offences. mr bolesław piecha has acknowledged the facts and agrees to pay the fine for his offence. but under polish law, his parliamentary immunity must be waived in order for this fine to be paid. the inspector-general for road traffic therefore requested the european parliament, by letter of 5 october 2015, to waive the immunity of mr bolesław piecha. the facts complained of have no direct connection with mr piecha's mandate as a member of the european parliament. there is no indication that the persecution was motivated by a desire to persecute. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the facts complained of have no direct link with mr piecha's mandate as an mep. there is no indication that the persecution was motivated by a desire to persecute. the immunity can be waived, i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr bolesław g. piecha. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ mr bolesław piecha has to pay a fine for a traffic offence. he admitted to the facts and agreed to pay the fine. but under polish law, his parliamentary immunity must be waived in order for the fine to be paid. the inspector-general for road traffic therefore requested the european parliament, by letter of 5 october 2015, to waive the immunity of mr bolesław piecha. the facts complained of have no direct connection with mr piecha's mandate as a member of the european parliament. i therefore vote in favour of this report calling for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the facts complained of have no direct link with mr piecha's mandate as an mep. there is no indication that the persecution was motivated by a desire to persecute. i therefore voted in favour of lifting his parliamentary immunity so that he can pay his fine.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, although not binding, seeks to prevent member states from being able to refuse certain types of adoption, in particular children from gpa.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, which responds to petitions addressed to the european parliament, claims to defend the best interests of the child, particularly in the area of adoption. the resolution incorporates an amendment voted in the peti committee which abolishes the possibility for states not to recognise adoptions contrary to their own law. in fact, this resolution entails the mandatory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples and children of gpa, adoptions prohibited by most european states as being against their public order. in addition to a clear denial of sovereignty, this resolution violates the rights of the child by opening the way at european level to the acceptance of practices harmful to its well-being and balance. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution must make it possible to apply the best interests of the child in all areas, including in the field of adoption. this also applies to the parents' right to maintain contact with the child. the resolution includes an amendment which removes the possibility for states not to recognise adoptions contrary to their public policy. thus, if an adoption is recorded in one member state, it may be recorded in another. this may in fact lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples or children from gpa. the resolution does call on the member states to regulate the recognition of crossborder adoptions, but i would like to point out that this is not an eu matter and is entirely a matter for national policies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the compulsory recognition of adoptions by other member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples, of children from gpa, which i oppose. point 22 calls on the member states and the commission to regulate the recognition of crossborder adoptions. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, which is supposed to protect the best interests of the child in all circumstances in the european union, is in fact aimed at removing the possibility for member states not to recognise adoptions contrary to public policy. the text could therefore oblige the national authorities to recognise adoptions by same-sex couples or children born of surrogacy. it would be absolutely scandalous to subject the peoples of europe to customs which are not their own. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ coordination of the judicial systems of the member states is essential to ensure the best interests of the child in cases of divorce of transnational parents. the brussels iia regulation is a european legal instrument designed to help international couples resolve transnational disputes on divorce or child custody. there is clearly a problem in the implementation of this regulation which is preventing it from achieving its intended objective. this regulation should serve the parents to resolve their disputes while safeguarding the best interests of the child. states must support the communities most vulnerable to social exclusion through more preventive approaches. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to guarantee the same european standards for all children and families in legal proceedings. this resolution also shows that petitions sent by our fellow citizens are duly examined by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this resolution recalls the main principles of child protection and judicial cooperation in the eu, the role of social services in child protection, judicial proceedings relating to child custody, child placement and adoption, and any cross-border dimension related to the subject. the report calls on member states to integrate monitoring and evaluation systems into their national coordination framework on crossborder cases involving children. it also advocates the creation of specialised chambers in family courts and stresses the importance of offering children a sense of closeness to their cultural background. i have supported this report because i believe that in the context of the migration crisis, where more than 10 000 children are missing, it is essential that our states strengthen their cooperation in order to protect their children's interests.
in writing. ‒ the principle of free movement allows millions of europeans to live and, in some cases, to start a family in a state other than their own. in the event of separation, difficulties may arise when one of the spouses decides to return to his or her member state of origin, as national laws on parental custody are still not harmonised at european level. in view of the principle of the protection of the best interests of the child, it is therefore urgent that the european union and its member states improve their judicial cooperation on this issue, as we have long been calling for.
in writing. ‒ the compulsory recognition of adoptions by some member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions of children raised by same-sex couples or children from gpas, for example. however, these particular adoptions are often prohibited by most member states in the name of public policy. however, the resolution adopted in the peti committee on 14 march 2016 includes an amendment which removes the possibility for states not to recognise adoptions contrary to their interpretation of public policy. although the resolution stresses that there is no automatic recognition, it also calls on the states and the commission to regulate the recognition of cross-border adoptions. that is why i voted against this text, which does not respect the sovereign choices of states and which contributes to the spread of practices that endanger the family and the natural foundation of our societies.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the compulsory recognition of adoptions by other member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples, children from gpas, etc.
in writing. ‒ like many of my colleagues who voted against this text despite its title, it is paragraph 22 that is the basis for my decision. the commission is called upon to regulate the recognition of national adoptions. i cannot help but think, despite some restraint in the wording, that this is intended to encourage the systematic recognition of certain types of adoption which may not be legal in certain countries. and i remember a hearing held in this parliament at the end of the last term on this subject. it was clear that in order to bring countries that were still reluctant to adopt by same-sex couples or to adopt children from gpas to their knees, free movement and mutual recognition had to be used. how could a state for any length of time deny its own nationals the parental authority, the marriage or parentage rights which it would grant to european families who had come to settle on its territory? this would be a powerful argument for the "marriage for all" and "children's rights" lobbies. and that would certainly not be in the interests of the children's rights and interests.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the mobility of european citizens has coincided with a surge in crossborder childcare disputes. the european parliament has been involved in many highly sensitive and problematic cases involving allegations of discriminatory and arbitrary measures taken by the youth authorities of certain member states in this area. the resolution calls on the member states to set up a monitoring and evaluation system for such conflicts, to set up dedicated bodies within the courts for such conflicts and to guarantee regular visiting rights for parents who are nationals of another member state. at european level, the commission is asked to draw up a clear and accessible guide on the institutional arrangements for child protection in each member state and, in particular, to set up a telephone helpline in cases of child abduction or abuse. so unless it is against his best interests, every child should have the right to see both parents regularly. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ the compulsory recognition of adoptions by other member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples, including children from gpas. these particular adoptions are often prohibited by most member states in the name of public policy. however, the motion for a resolution adopts a cautious wording, in particular in paragraph 22, where it merely emphasizes that there is no automatic recognition and calls on the states and the commission to regulate the recognition of cross-border adoptions. naturally, i voted against this because of our commitment to combating gpa.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on safeguarding the best interests of the child throughout the union on the basis of petitions to the european parliament. the compulsory recognition of adoptions by other member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of particular adoptions which are sometimes prohibited in certain member states, in particular on grounds of public policy. the sovereignty of european nations must be respected, and this principle must be reconciled with the best interests of the child. this is why bilateral agreements between member states should be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it seeks to force states to recognise adoptions that are contrary to their public policy, in particular those made by same-sex couples or on children from gpa. i am also wary of the concept of the 'best interests of the child', which is used to tear the child away from the traditional family of a father and a mother.
in writing. ‒ each member state of the european union has different national legislation regarding children and adoption regulations. so, the state does or does not allow adoption of a child by same-sex couples, adoption of children from the gpa... the text put to the vote, however, proposes to remove the possibility for states not to recognise adoptions which are contrary to their legislation. the text thus jeopardizes public order and interferes with the royal powers of the countries. the rapporteur, although stating that there is no automatic recognition, strongly suggests that the commission should standardise the adoption procedures in europe. so i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the purpose of this text is to put the best interests of the child first. this primacy would apply to adoptions but also to the parents' right to maintain contact with the child. during the debate on this text in the parliamentary committee, an amendment removed a provision limiting the recognition of adoptions on grounds of public policy. the text is only carefully worded: automatic recognition of adoptions is not mentioned. it is therefore up to the states and the european commission to legislate on cross-border adoption. despite this precaution, we are concerned about the consequences of this text. it could lead to mandatory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples or children from gpa.
in writing. - a breakup is never easy. especially when it involves a child. but when one or both parents come from another country, the complexity of the issue of custody becomes clear. citizens have sent numerous petitions to the european parliament on disputed decisions on child custody, abduction and placement cases. the resolution therefore calls for better coordination of legal services in the member states, particularly in crossborder cases. it is developing very concrete solutions, such as a common definition of 'habitual residence'. but don't stop there. social services are essential for the care of children and their parents. the text therefore criticises the policies of austerity and cuts which ultimately harm the child himself in the first place. another concrete example: it asks that in the case of child placement procedures (when the parents are dead or deemed incapable of acting) a sufficient period be determined so that the child's extended family members, sometimes in another country, have time to present themselves and propose to adopt the child. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report was a generally cautious report in that it was not binding. in other words, it did not oblige a member state to recognise automatically an adoption by another country. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we must also ensure that the laws of the states are respected in matters of the family. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution adopted by the peti committee on 14 march 2016 includes an amendment that removes the possibility for states not to recognise adoptions contrary to their public policy. the compulsory recognition of adoptions by other member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples, children from gpas, etc. and these particular adoptions are often prohibited by most member states in the name of public policy. however, the motion for a resolution adopts a cautious wording, particularly in paragraph 22: it merely emphasizes that there is no automatic recognition and calls on the states and the commission to regulate the recognition of cross-border adoptions. i shall vote against it, however.
in writing. ‒ the compulsory recognition of adoptions by other member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions of children from gpa. these particular adoptions are often prohibited by member states in the name of public policy. the member states are sovereign in this area, so i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which focuses on child protection and judicial cooperation within the eu, the role of social services in child protection, judicial proceedings relating to child custody, child placement and adoption, and any cross-border dimension related to the subject. it calls on the member states to designate specialised chambers within family courts or crossborder mediation bodies to deal with cases concerning crossborder children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on child protection and judicial cooperation in crossborder custody and adoption disputes. more cooperation in crossborder family matters is needed. legal cooperation between member states needs to be improved and the european commission needs to help provide clear information to all european citizens about legal procedures relating to children, such as parental rights in different european countries. children should not pay the price of a lack of cooperation from member states; their interests must be protected.
in writing. ‒ this text claims to safeguard the best interests of the child in all areas, including in the field of adoption. it also concerns the right of parents to maintain contact with their children. however, it has an important con­triction: the removal of the possibility for member states not to recognise adoptions contrary to public policy. the compulsory recognition of adoptions by other member states could lead to the compulsory recognition of adoptions by same-sex couples, children from gpas, etc. and these particular adoptions are often prohibited by most member states in the name of public policy. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. it is not acceptable to ask for the opinion of the eesc, which has no legitimacy and whose opinions are of no use. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the eu is planning to set up a 'european pillar of social rights' which is due to be established in the coming months. in the european parliament, this text will be referred to the empl (employment and social affairs) committee with the opinion of the european economic and social committee (eesc). the eesc is an unelected consultative body made up of representatives of civil society, employers, trade unions, etc. i am against the very existence of this agency, which has no democratic legitimacy and whose opinions are of no use, so to ask for their opinion seems to me to be a waste of time and money. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the creation of a european pillar of social rights which is due to be established shortly. parliament may ask the eesc for its opinion on the creation of the eesc. as in my country, france, i consider that this body has no democratic legitimacy and the opinions it gives are often useless or not widely consulted. it is a body that allows for the arrangements and the distribution of posts between various associations, employers' or employees' unions, but in the end, making this request for consultation would cost us more money and time than anything else.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is preparing an own-initiative report on the creation of a european pillar of social rights, which will serve as a framework for examining performance in the social and employment field in the light of changing forms of work and societies and, more generally, as a guide for the new convergence process within the euro area. the european parliament, pursuant to rule 137 of its rules of procedure, asks the european economic and social committee to deliver an opinion on this matter. in the interests of continuing dialogue with civil society and european economic and social actors, i voted in favour of this consultation, which will enrich the content of the own-initiative report prepared by the parliament's employment committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the creation of a european pillar of social rights. i am against the very existence of this expensive and useless institution. in addition, social legislation is the exclusive competence of the member states. there is therefore no point in creating a 'european pillar' of social rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks the opinion of the european economic and social committee (eesc) on the establishment of a 'european pillar of social rights'. i am hostile to the very existence of the eesc, which has no democratic legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ this report is covered by rule 137 of the european parliament, which states that a committee 'may request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on general questions or on specific points'. the european economic and social committee should be consulted on the creation of a european pillar of social rights. i hope that the opinion of this committee will be able to counterbalance the commission's guidelines on this matter somewhat, and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european pillar of social rights was drawn up through consultation with civil society. the problem is that this committee has no democratic legitimacy because it is an advisory institution formed without elections. finally, i think that their advice is not useful to us and that it would be a total waste to continue in this way. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the eesc is an undemocratic, costly and clientelist institution which lacks any legitimacy to give any opinion whatsoever. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the committee on employment and social affairs wishes to request the european economic and social council to give its opinion on the future european pillar of social rights. the eesc has no democratic legitimacy. his opinion is of little interest. the proliferation of these councils at all levels costs the taxpayer a fortune for nothing. i therefore oppose the consultation of this body and therefore vote against this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls for the economic and social committee (esc) to be consulted on the european pillar of social rights. on 8 march the commission presented a communication on the establishment of a european framework for social rights. this would define the principles and framework for ensuring the proper functioning of the labour markets and social systems in the euro area countries. in parallel, a public consultation was launched by the commission on this subject in order to gather the views of the actors concerned. the vote and approval by parliament is a request for consultation of the eesc.
in writing. ‒ this text provides for consultation of the european economic and social committee (eesc) in the context of the european pillar of social rights. i am against the very existence of the eesc, which is an independent body, not elected and therefore unconnected with our citizens. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the eesc is the european institution representing the european socioeconomic community. its members are appointed by the member states. unfortunately, it has only an advisory role. the 350 members of the eesc represent trade unions, employers' organisations, ngos, the agricultural and craft industries, the professions and consumers. the social economy is also represented. it is the european equivalent of the french economic, social and environmental council. the treaty on the functioning of the eu provides for consultation on certain matters. in this text, the european parliament asks the eesc to deliver an opinion on the creation of a european pillar of social rights. this seems to be the least of it and i think it is an important subject, although i am doubtful about the consequences, especially as i consider that the opinions of the eesc are not sufficiently used and taken into account. nevertheless, it is an important form of consultation of the social partners. i am in principle in favour of his views and of a wider consultation of 'civil society', especially when it comes to the rights of which they are the main actors. i voted in favour of this consultation in the hope that it will open up new prospects, including for that other europe to which i aspire more than ever.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the agreement we have reached, which gives real powers to the european railway agency (era). in concrete terms, the commission will now be able to issue safety certificates for railway undertakings and authorisations for rolling stock at european level, while continuing to draw on the expertise and know-how of national authorities. the afe will also develop the european traffic management system so that trains can run in several countries with different infrastructures without having to change control, braking or signalling systems. finally, the tfa will also be responsible for harmonising the approximately 11 000 national safety rules. in the fight against climate change, europe has a great tool to promote rail mobility, which is much more environmentally sustainable.
in writing. i voted for the amendment rejecting this fourth railway technical pillar which will eventually destroy the public railway service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a rejection amendment opposing this report on the fourth railway package, by which the european union intends to impose 'free competition' in the transport market, with a view to creating a single transport market at european level; this text is linked to reports nos 153 and 154 and together with them constitutes only the various facets of this fourth railway package, in that the role of the european railway agency will be to enable full interoperability between european countries by imposing common safety rules laid down by the agency. this new forced liberalization can only be harmful. the liberalisation of rail freight in 2006 did not allow the development initially planned. on the contrary, rail freight continues to collapse year after year: in france, -30% since 2006. i refuse to accept a measure that would harm both the users and the employees.
in writing. ‒ following discussions, the european union railway agency will be able to eliminate the need for multiple authorisations, have a greater role in the development of the european rail traffic management system (ertms), establish a one-stop shop , making the agency the only entry point for all applications, and conclude cooperation agreements between the agency and national safety authorities. finally, the agency's management board will also establish rules on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and procedures for cooperation with national judicial authorities. there are many concerns about these prerogatives, not least the fact that the agency will certainly be much more easily subjected to pressure than national agencies taken separately. worse, the agency will now be able to dictate its choices to the states and bypass national railway safety agencies for the entire railway sector. i have therefore decided to reject the council's proposal and to vote in favour of the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ this text, together with the text on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union and the text on railway safety, are the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016. since the technical and political aspects are linked, it was not appropriate to distinguish between these three texts which, although they contain harmless provisions, have the same stated aim: the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism. this will serve the profits of the large financial and industrial groups at the expense of the sector's employees and, in the medium term, of users. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this technical report is part of the fourth railway package, adopted by the european commission in 2013, which aims to fully liberalise the transport sector in europe with a view to creating a single market. the aim of this report is to give the european railway agency the responsibility to promote interoperability between member states by imposing common safety rules on them. the interoperability of transport means, in particular, the possibility of trains running unhindered on railway networks located in different member states. as a result, the national railway agencies will soon become mere branches of the european agency. the commission will therefore be able to impose its choices on the member states and to bypass the national agencies. i have of course opposed this report, which contributes to the creation of a single transport market which undermines the sovereignty of the member states of the union. that is why i voted for the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to approve the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the fourth railway package. this report is the technical part of the report. it defines the new competences of the european railway agency in the fields of interoperability and safety. the agency is thus responsible for issuing marketing authorisations for railway vehicles and types of railway vehicles, as well as for issuing single safety certificates for railway undertakings.
in writing. ‒ as part of the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, this legislative report aims to strengthen the remit of the european railway agency (era). the aim of this agency is to remove the remaining administrative and technical barriers in the railway sector. it also aims to further develop and ensure the proper functioning of a single european railway area. to this end, it should ensure a high level of railway safety and interoperability and monitor the development of national railway rules to support the achievements of national railway safety and interoperability authorities and promote the optimisation of procedures. the agency will be responsible for issuing authorisations to place vehicles and types of railway vehicles on the market and for issuing single safety certificates for railway undertakings. i personally worked on this report during the last mandate 2009-2014 and, considering that the european railway market requires better coordination and harmonisation at european level and that this requires the strengthening of the afe's competences, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ liberalisation and opening up to competition have been the commission's objectives since the first railway package in 2001. the rail freight sector is constantly collapsing in the face of competition from road freight and social dumping. the states will no longer be entitled, in the name of combating so-called protectionism, to ask for more security than the european agency asks for, or else their decision will be reversed. the commission adopted the 4th railway package in 2013, the technical pillar of which is submitted to parliament. it extends provisions of previous railway packages concerning interoperability, safety and the european railway agency. the measures are part of a package whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: the three reports on the fourth railway package together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ today we are voting on three reports on rail transport. as is often the case, these reports are not the only ones to be considered. they represent the technical part of the fourth railway package, i.e. the instruments for the full liberalisation of rail passenger transport in the european union. i strongly object to that. there are undoubtedly things that need to be reformed in this area in france, but it is up to france to decide what and how. every time the european commission has taken up networking in the name of competition, promising to improve the quality of services at a lower cost, we have had to be disappointed: dismantling public services, systematic search for the cheapest option, deterioration of services, confusion of responsibilities, problems with infrastructure financing... we are often told that germany has been successful in liberalizing rail transport for a relatively long time and that it has been relatively successful. but the reality of competition is more moderate than we are led to believe. the model is probably the one that inspired brussels, although it is relevant for germany, but not necessarily for the other member states. monetary policy is an unfortunately dramatic example of the damage that these non-transposable models can cause.
in writing. ‒ while some provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the choice to vote, as usual, in favour of the safety aspect is irrelevant: sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. this would only serve to replace them with european standards. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness. for these reasons i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the role of the agency in the development of a single european railway area. the report provides that the european railway agency will play an authority role within the european union, that it will be responsible for the issuing of marketing authorisations for railway vehicles, as well as the issuing of single safety certificates for railway undertakings.
in writing. i voted against the three reports which constitute the beginning of the 'railway package' (european union agency for railways/interoperability of the rail system within the eu/railway safety). they are preparing the liberalisation of rail transport, whereas the liberalisation of rail freight since 2006 has been a clear failure. in addition, the proliferation of railway operators will facilitate social dumping and the use of low-cost posted workers, to the detriment of passenger safety. finally, the french-style public service will be weakened to the detriment of spatial planning. so technically i voted for the proposal of the efdd group to reject this railway package.
in writing. ‒ since the creation of the first railway package in 2001, the european commission has launched a process of federalisation of the transport agencies of the member states, under the aegis of the european railway agency. it is a gradual centralisation, which accelerated in 2013 with the adoption of the fourth railway package. this reform lays down the future rules on safety, competition and governance of the next single transport market. the proposals are intended to strengthen the powers of the european railway agency, which will govern the whole of the european transport network. for all these reasons, i am firmly against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the fourth railway package concerning the european union agency for railways. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report forms an integral part of the fourth railway package adopted by the commission in 2013. the liberalisation of european railways, initiated in 2001 and implemented in 2006, has had the same deleterious effects as other sectoral liberalisation reforms undertaken by the european union. the liberalisation of rail freight has resulted in a drastic fall in rail traffic: - 30% in france since 2006. the main reason for this decline is competition in the road sector. the latter has also been the subject of a liberalisation policy implemented by the european union. it benefits from low-cost labour due to the posted workers directive. however, our vote is motivated by the following considerations: - the european union agency for railways is responsible for regulating the operation of sections of the railway network. it will therefore replace the national railway agencies. - it is not possible to support the technical part of the railway package without also supporting its political part. we are firmly opposed to the very principle of liberalization of the railway sector and we denounce its disastrous consequences, particularly for workers.
in writing. ‒ by harmonising the technical and safety rules for rail transport, this directive is further deepening the technocratization of the european union. the aim is to improve 'the technical compatibility of infrastructure, rolling stock, signalling and other parts of the railway system and to simplify the procedures for authorising rolling stock for use on the entire european rail network'. the agreement should therefore allow railway undertakings and equipment manufacturers to achieve further economies of scale. this is supposed to help avoid any 'hidden discrimination' against companies wishing to enter a market (i.e. in practice the outsourcing and privatisation of railway equipment companies). it will also significantly reduce the volume of national rules in areas where harmonised regulation at union level has been put in place, meaning that transport policy will no longer be in the hands of the states but of the commission. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this rejection amendment made it possible to oppose the european council's position and to put an end to the procedure. it was to delete the report on the technical pillar of the fourth railway package. this is part of the project for a single transport market, liberalization and opening up to competition. some of the provisions envisaged are not harmful, the whole text is in favour of the competitiveness of the sector against protectionism. this is done for security reasons, among others. the safety standards in the western and northern european countries are adequate. the liberalization of the sector as envisaged in this text would have the effect of extending the scope of european law. finally, the example of previous liberalizations confirms that it benefits the large industrial groups far more at the expense of employees and, in the medium term, of users, particularly those in the less-favoured regions. i therefore voted in favour of the three rejection amendments.
in writing. ‒ the three rail reports presented today together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar to be voted on before the end of 2016. all the technical and political aspects are interrelated, so i shall not distinguish between the reports. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sought the european parliament's opinion on the council's position at first reading, with a view to adopting a regulation on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation no 881/2004. the regulation will give railway operators greater visibility by creating a 'one stop shop' for all applications. the railway sector is facing unfair and aggressive competition from certain countries, such as china, and i support all initiatives aimed at simplifying the process and thus ultimately restoring its competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the amendment tabled is a rejection amendment which is opposed to the report on the technical pillar of the fourth railway package. i am firmly opposed to the railway package which will dismantle a useful public service to subject it to destructive competition. the ultra-liberal model never works for any sector but we are trying to spread it everywhere. moreover, putting the technical pillar before the political pillar is as absurd as it is unfair, and this is not surprising from the european union. i therefore vote in favour of this rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the technical pillar of the 'fourth railway package'. even if we would have preferred an exclusively european ertms management, we can only welcome the reinforcement and new responsibilities of the european railway agency (era), whose role as a one-stop shop has increased, especially in the field of marketing authorization and safety certificates. this ensures simplified procedures and lower costs for transport companies, infrastructure managers and local authorities, and improved quality for end users. in addition, proposals to promote enhanced cooperation between the tfa and national agencies in the field of security and to combat conflicts of interest are to be welcomed. although rail provides mass, fast, ecological and european-wide transport, it is steadily losing its attractiveness compared to other modes of transport. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which proposes a number of tools to boost the sector.
in writing. ‒ i choose to vote against the three reports which together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016. since all the technical and political aspects are interrelated, it seems appropriate not to distinguish between the two. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the choice to vote, as usual, in favour of the safety aspect is irrelevant: sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. it would only serve to replace them with european standards, we gain nothing but lose our sovereignty. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness.
in writing. ‒ the european commission presented in january 2013 a set of texts aimed at improving rail services in europe by creating a single european railway area. while consensus was reached relatively quickly on technical issues (june 2015), political issues related to governance proved more difficult to resolve. on 19 april 2016, a provisional agreement on the political component was finally reached by the european parliament, the commission and the council, allowing for the whole package to move forward, in particular with regard to the vote of the technical texts today by the european parliament. the adoption of this technical component is a major step forward towards a more integrated and efficient european railway area. railway safety, facilitated cross-border services and streamlined rail traffic have long been expected by all rail stakeholders and will improve the daily lives of millions of europeans.
in writing. i voted for the amendment rejecting this report which forms the technical pillar of the fourth railway package and which will ultimately destroy our public railway service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a rejection amendment opposing this report on the fourth railway package, by which the european union intends to impose 'free competition' in the transport market, with a view to creating a single transport market at european level; this report is linked to reports nos 152 and 154 and together with them constitutes only the various facets of this fourth railway package, in that the role of the european railway agency will be to enable full interoperability between european countries by imposing common safety rules laid down by the agency. this new forced liberalization can only be harmful. the liberalisation of rail freight in 2006 did not allow the development initially planned. on the contrary, rail freight continues to collapse year after year: in france, -30% since 2006. i refuse to accept a measure that would harm both the users and the employees.
in writing. ‒ in the federalist madness that is the dynamic of this european union, the national railway agencies will soon become mere branches of the european agency. the various systems to be set up as part of the railway package (an application for european registration, a one-stop shop, clear deadlines, etc.) should make it possible to override the sovereignty of the states in favour of the agency. thus, making the european rail traffic management system (ertms) projects interoperable or significantly reducing the volume of national rules in areas where harmonised regulation at eu level has been put in place is encouraging the european union in its mad rush towards more brussels centralism but also, in the long run, more rail liberalism. the european union, taking as an example the rail freight sector which is dying as a result of european reforms, wants to extend this to passenger transport, which i am opposed to. i therefore rejected the council's proposal and voted in favour of the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this text, together with the text on the european union agency for railways and the text on railway safety, are the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016. since the technical and political aspects are linked, it was not appropriate to distinguish between these three texts which, although they contain harmless provisions, have the same stated aim, namely the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism. this will serve the profits of the large financial and industrial groups at the expense of the sector's employees and, in the medium term, of users. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this technical report is part of the fourth railway package, adopted by the european commission in 2013, which aims to fully liberalise the transport sector in europe with a view to creating a single market. the aim of this report is to give the european railway agency the responsibility to promote interoperability between member states by imposing common safety rules on them. the interoperability of transport means, in particular, the possibility of trains running unhindered on railway networks located in different member states. the liberalisation of rail in the union will significantly weaken public undertakings and therefore destroy jobs. the multinationals, as soon as they enter the market, will lower prices in order to weaken the public enterprises which enjoyed a natural monopoly; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have of course opposed this report. that is why i voted for the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to approve the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the fourth railway package. this report is the technical part of the report. it concerns the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. it defines the conditions for the recognition of interoperability authorisations throughout the union and makes national legal frameworks more consistent.
in writing. ‒ as part of the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, this legislative report concerns the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. the purpose of this directive is to establish the conditions which must be met in order to define an optimum level of technical harmonisation, to facilitate, improve and develop rail transport services within the union and with third countries, and to contribute to the completion of the single european railway area and the progressive establishment of the internal market. i personally worked on this report during the last mandate (2009-2014) and, considering that it is essential to improve the efficiency of vehicle authorisation procedures by encouraging the recognition of interoperability authorisations throughout the union and by making national legal frameworks applicable to the internal rail market more coherent, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ liberalisation and opening up to competition have been the commission's objectives since the first railway package in 2001. the rail freight sector is constantly collapsing in the face of competition from road freight and social dumping. the states will no longer be entitled, in the name of combating so-called protectionism, to ask for more security than the european agency asks for, or else their decision will be reversed. the commission adopted the fourth railway package in 2013, the technical pillar of which is submitted to parliament. it extends provisions of previous railway packages concerning interoperability, safety and the european railway agency. the measures are part of a package whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: the three reports on the fourth railway package together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ while some provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the choice to vote, as usual, in favour of the safety aspect is irrelevant: sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. this would only serve to replace them with european standards. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness. for these reasons i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to achieve better interoperability between the union's rail systems, with a view to establishing a single european railway area. the report aims to encourage the recognition of interoperability authorisations throughout the union and to make national legal frameworks more consistent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the fourth railway package concerning the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the three reports which constitute the beginning of the 'railway package' (european union agency for railways/interoperability of the rail system within the european union/railway safety). they are preparing the liberalisation of rail transport, whereas the liberalisation of rail freight since 2006 has been a clear failure. in addition, the proliferation of railway operators will facilitate social dumping and the use of low-cost posted workers, to the detriment of passenger safety. finally, the french-style public service will be weakened to the detriment of spatial planning. so technically i voted for the proposal of the efdd group to reject this railway package.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package, voted in 2013, is based on two pillars, political and technical. the text to be voted on focuses on this second pillar. the commission is proposing to give the european railway agency the power to set common safety rules, which should allow greater interoperability between european countries. the technical question of interoperability is therefore aimed at making transport agencies and operators subject to the rules laid down by the agency and thus dependent on its goodwill. it is therefore a clear violation of the sovereignty of the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is an integral part of the fourth railway package. the liberalisation of european railways, which started in 2001 and was implemented in 2006, has had the same deleterious effects as other sectoral liberalisation reforms undertaken by the european union. the liberalisation of rail freight has resulted in a drastic fall in rail traffic: - 30% in france since 2006. the main reason for this decline is competition in the road sector. the latter has also been the subject of a liberalisation policy implemented by the european union. it benefits from low-cost labour due to the posted workers directive. the technical part of the railway package contains a number of provisions of purely practical (interoperability) scope. however, it is not possible to support the technical part of the railway package without also supporting its political part. we are firmly opposed to the very principle of liberalization of the railway sector and we denounce its disastrous consequences, particularly for workers. we therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this apparently technical text underpins the liberal logic of european competition in rail transport markets which is that of this fourth railway package. the search for interoperability is not in itself a bad measure, it becomes one when the sole and only objective is to prevent member states from interfering in any way with the sacrosanct rule of free and undistorted competition and when it is really only aimed at privatising crossborder lines. instead, the european union should draw up a continental multimodal transport plan to drastically reduce road transport. while this text makes a great deal of reference to measures to harmonize european technical rules affecting rail transport, there is still no mention of harmonizing social rules from the top down. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the three rail reports presented today together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar to be voted on before the end of 2016. i shall not distinguish between the two, since all the technical and political aspects are linked. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sought to give parliament's opinion on the council's position at first reading, with a view to adopting a directive on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union. the future directive will aim to simplify the standards applicable to the railway sector, in particular by significantly reducing the volume of national rules in areas where harmonised regulation at eu level has been put in place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step.
in writing. ‒ the amendment tabled is a rejection amendment which is opposed to the report on the technical pillar of the fourth railway package. i am firmly opposed to the railway package which will dismantle a useful public service to subject it to destructive competition. the ultra-liberal model never works for any sector but we are trying to spread it everywhere. moreover, putting the technical pillar before the political pillar is as absurd as it is unfair, and this is not surprising from the european union. i therefore vote in favour of this rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the technical pillar of the 'fourth railway package'. the effective interoperability of national rail systems, resulting from the end of the technical fragmentation of national networks, is essential for free movement in europe and for strengthening our competitiveness. it is part of the european union's constant drive to develop transeuropean transport networks. the attractiveness of the railway is clearly based on its ability to offer users a safe, efficient, regular and easy-to-access service. the new text, which ensures the pooling of interoperability standards, includes a number of tools to boost the sector in the face of increased competition from other modes of transport. for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i choose to vote out on the three reports which together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016. since all the technical and political aspects are interrelated, it seems appropriate not to distinguish between the two. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the choice to vote, as usual, in favour of the safety aspect is irrelevant: sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. this would only serve to replace them with european standards. we gain nothing by it, but we lose our sovereignty. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this technical component in the railway package is a major step forward towards a more integrated and efficient european railway area. railway safety, facilitated cross-border services and streamlined rail traffic have long been expected by all rail stakeholders and will improve the daily lives of millions of europeans.
in writing. i voted for the amendment rejecting this report which forms the technical pillar of the fourth railway package and which will ultimately destroy our public railway service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a rejection amendment opposing this report on the fourth railway package, by which the european union intends to impose 'free competition' in the transport market, with a view to creating a single transport market at european level; this report is linked to reports nos 152 and 153 and together with them constitutes only the various facets of this fourth railway package, in that the role of the european railway agency will be to enable full interoperability between european countries by imposing common safety rules laid down by the agency. this new forced liberalization can only be harmful. the liberalisation of rail freight in 2006 did not allow the development initially planned. on the contrary, rail freight continues to collapse year after year: in france, -30% since 2006. i refuse to accept a measure that would harm both the users and the employees.
in writing. ‒ in the field of railway safety, the future european agency should play a key role in issuing safety certificates to railway undertakings, monitoring the working or driving hours of drivers by the states, exchanging information on safety risks, providing technical assistance to investigating bodies and providing a secretariat to facilitate cooperation between them. as far as being in favour of the safety aspect is concerned, this does not seem relevant since sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. this would only serve to replace them with european standards. we gain nothing by it, but we lose our sovereignty. i therefore rejected the council's proposal and voted in favour of the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this text, like the one on the european union agency and the one on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union for railways, is the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016. since the technical and political aspects are linked, it was not appropriate to distinguish between these three texts which, although they contain harmless provisions, have the same stated aim, namely the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism. this will serve the profits of the large financial and industrial groups at the expense of the sector's employees and, in the medium term, of users. in addition, adequate safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this technical report is part of the fourth railway package, adopted by the european commission in 2013, which aims to fully liberalise the transport sector in europe with a view to creating a single market. the aim of this report is to give the european railway agency the responsibility to promote interoperability between member states by imposing common safety rules on them. the interoperability of transport means, in particular, the possibility of trains running unhindered on railway networks located in different member states. this report will prevent the national authorities of the member states from taking additional security measures, otherwise their decision will be reversed on the grounds of disguised protectionism. weakened member states will be powerless before the european commission to protect their public enterprises from the savage competition that the multinationals are about to give them. without additional safety guarantees, the creation of a single market in the transport sector and the liberalization of rail will be detrimental to employment, purchasing power and sovereignty. i have of course opposed this report. that is why i voted for the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to approve the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the fourth railway package. this report is the technical part of the report. it aims to simplify and reform the administrative procedures for issuing safety certificates in order to end the fragmentation of the rules in the union. it also provides for the establishment of a single safety certificate and clarifies the responsibilities of the various actors.
in writing. ‒ as part of the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, this legislative report aims to reform railway safety legislation. it proposes to simplify and reform the administrative procedures for issuing safety certificates in order to end the fragmentation of safety rules across the union by establishing a single safety certificate for railway undertakings and infrastructure managers, to be issued by the european railway agency. i was personally involved in this issue during the last mandate (2009-2014) and, considering that this report clarifies the roles and responsibilities of the various actors in the railway system to ensure sufficient risk control, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ liberalisation and opening up to competition have been the commission's objectives since the first railway package in 2001. the rail freight sector is constantly collapsing in the face of competition from road freight and social dumping. the states will no longer be entitled, in the name of combating so-called protectionism, to ask for more security than the european agency asks for, or else their decision will be reversed. the commission adopted the fourth railway package in 2013, the technical pillar of which is submitted to parliament. it extends provisions of previous railway packages concerning interoperability, safety and the european railway agency. the measures are part of a package whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: the three reports on the fourth railway package together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ while some provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the choice to vote, as usual, in favour of the safety aspect is irrelevant: sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. this would only serve to replace them with european standards. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of progress but the impression of doubt or weakness. for these reasons i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to establish a common approach to railway safety in order to develop economies of scale for railway undertakings operating throughout the union and to simplify the procedures for issuing safety certificates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the fourth railway package on railway safety. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. this would only serve to replace them with european standards. we gain nothing, but we lose our national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the three reports which constitute the beginning of the railway package (european union agency for railways/interoperability of the rail system within the european union/railway safety). they are preparing the liberalisation of rail transport, whereas the liberalisation of rail freight since 2006 has been a clear failure. in addition, the proliferation of railway operators will facilitate social dumping and the use of low-cost posted workers, to the detriment of passenger safety. finally, the french-style public service will be weakened to the detriment of spatial planning. so technically i voted for the proposal of the efdd group to reject this railway package.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the european union is in the process of setting up a european railway agency, which will be responsible for managing a single transport market. the agency is given increasing powers with the various reforms, the latest of which is the fourth railway package of 2013. the report suggests that member states should equip the agency with a security component. the creation of such a component will produce european safety standards applicable to all rail transport in the european union. however, existing standards are sufficient in all the countries of western and northern europe. it is therefore absurd to replace them and thereby neglect the sovereignty of the member states in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is an integral part of the 'fourth railway package' adopted by the commission in 2013. the liberalisation of european railways, initiated in 2001 and implemented in 2006, has had the same deleterious effects as other sectoral liberalisation reforms initiated by the european union. the liberalisation of rail freight has resulted in a drastic fall in rail traffic: - 30% in france since 2006. the main reason for this decline is competition in the road sector. the latter has also been the subject of a liberalisation policy initiated by the european union. it benefits from low-cost labour due to the posted workers directive. the technical part of the railway package contains a number of provisions of purely practical scope. however, it is not possible to support the technical part of the railway package without also supporting its political part. we are firmly opposed to the very principle of liberalization of the railway sector and we denounce its disastrous consequences, particularly for workers.
in writing. ‒ the principle of strengthening safety rules in rail transport is good and necessary. unfortunately, the commission's directive does not go in that direction. the aim is to transfer all security-related responsibilities to a european agency, in order to discourage member states from continuing to set their own security rules and standards on the basis of national technical and operational concepts. the agreement will also reduce the member states' legislative and control powers. there is still an unelected authority which does not represent the consumer and workers' organisations. the commission has no intention of imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain steel products originating in the people's republic of china. however, in many member states (including france) standards are higher than those in the european union and there have never been so many accidents since the beginning of railway liberalization. i am voting against this text. it is only a manifestation of the liberal technocracy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the three rail reports presented today together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016. i shall not distinguish between the two, since all the technical and political aspects are linked. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of making progress but the impression of doubting or weakening. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was intended to give parliament's opinion on the council's position at first reading, with a view to the adoption of a directive on railway safety. the directive will in particular improve the safety and incident reporting culture at the level of railway undertakings and infrastructure managers in this sector.
in writing. ‒ the amendment tabled is a rejection amendment which is opposed to the report on the technical pillar of the fourth railway package. i am firmly opposed to the railway package which will dismantle a useful public service to subject it to destructive competition. the ultra-liberal model never works for any sector but we try hard to spread it everywhere. moreover, putting the technical pillar before the political pillar is as absurd as it is unfair, and this is not surprising from the european union. i therefore vote in favour of this rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the technical pillar of the 'fourth railway package'. it brings significant advances in railway safety and european harmonisation in this field: better training and preparation of staff, better coordination of emergency services, obligation for member states to ensure that train drivers comply with the rules on working, driving and resting times. in addition to providing technical assistance and cooperation to the investigating bodies, the european railway agency will have the possibility to set up an instrument for the exchange of information on safety risks between the actors concerned. the attractiveness of the railway is clearly based on its ability to offer users a safe, efficient, regular and easy-to-access service. the new text, which ensures the pooling of safety standards, includes a number of tools to boost the sector in the face of increased competition from other modes of transport. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i choose to vote against the three reports which together constitute the means of implementing the political pillar which will be voted on before the end of 2016. since all the technical and political aspects are interrelated, it seems appropriate not to distinguish between the two. if certain provisions are not harmful, they all form part of a whole whose stated aim, the competitiveness of the sector and the fight against protectionism, will serve above all the profits of the large financial and industrial groups, will serve railway employees and in the medium term users, especially those in regions already neglected. the choice to vote as usual, in favour of the safety aspect, is not relevant: sufficient safety standards exist in all the countries of western and northern europe. it would only serve to replace them with european standards, we gain nothing but lose our sovereignty. the example of the previous liberalizations shows that there are no more concessions to be made on these questions, they are still insufficient in the eyes of european federalism which, like any revolution, falls if it no longer gives the impression of making progress, but the impression of doubting or weakening.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of a set of three texts constituting the so-called 'technical' part of the 4th 'railway package', ahead of the imminent vote on its political part, the so-called 'commercial' part, in june. in theory, it aims to update and deepen a 2004 directive on railway safety which established a framework harmonising the content of safety standards. with this directive, the european railway agency will now play a key role in issuing safety certificates to railway undertakings instead of national agencies. for my part, i cannot separate the so-called technical aspects from the political aspects of these 'railway packages' which are part of the logic of 'increasing the competitiveness and interoperability' of european railways by removing 'barriers to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment' and this without even the slightest assessment of the previous 'packages'. we know what is happening, especially in the social sphere. i reject the argument that these are merely 'technical' provisions and am convinced that this is a highly political matter, so i voted for the motion for a resolution and against each of these texts.
in writing. i voted for this text which makes markets more transparent and limits the risks of price manipulation.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to put an end to a wave of scandals concerning the manipulation of financial indices, in particular the libor and euribor interest rate benchmarks. by manipulating these indices, banks were able to influence the prices of loans and other derivatives to their advantage. i voted in favour of this new european regulatory framework which guarantees a high level of protection for investors and consumers in the use of financial indices, by preventing fraud and manipulation which can have disastrous consequences (inflation of consumer goods prices such as petrol or mortgage rates).
in writing. ‒ the libor and euribor manipulation scandals have prompted european authorities to legislate on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments. the idea of the regulation is to make their calculation formula transparent and to regulate the 'governance' of their suppliers in order to prevent conflicts of interest and subject them to some form of control by regulators, while respecting a principle of proportionality linked to the sum of indexed products they represent. it is also intended to allow the use of indices issued in third countries, provided that they comply with a list of criteria to ensure their reliability, defined by iosco. this text is a step forward and entrusts the national regulators with the main control functions. i therefore voted in favour of this text, despite the likely complexity of its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the libor and euribor manipulation scandals have prompted the european authorities to legislate on the subject of benchmarks, in addition to the sanctions component, which fall under the market abuse directive. the idea of the regulation is to make their calculation formula transparent, to frame the governance of their suppliers in order to prevent conflicts of interest and to subject them to some form of control by the regulators. the report identifies three categories of indices: critical indices (more than eur 500 billion of indexed products), significant indices (more than eur 50 billion) and non-significant indices. some indices are not taken into account, but it is planned to allow the use of framed third country indices. although i regret the complexity of the text in its implementation, it is nevertheless a step forward, especially since it entrusts the main control functions to the national regulators. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the repeated scandals of libor and euribor manipulation have led european authorities to regulate the methods of calculating indices, exchange rates and commodity prices, with the aim of making them much more transparent in order to limit manipulation. the text sets out more or less strict obligations depending on the amount of the derivatives underlying these indices. the text is clearly a step in the right direction: in addition to increasing transparency in financial markets, the report entrusts the main functions of supervision to national regulators, thus not limiting the sovereignty of the member states. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the libor and euribor manipulation scandals have prompted the european authorities to legislate on the subject of benchmarks, in addition to the sanctions component, which fall under the market abuse directive. the proposal includes making the formula for calculating these indices more transparent, setting out the governance of their providers and subjecting them to some form of control by regulators. this text is a step forward and entrusts the national regulators with the main control functions. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ benchmarks are indices used as a reference price for a financial instrument or contract. the most well-known european indices are libor and euribor, which serve as benchmarks for, for example, interbank interest rates, oil price valuation and stock market indices. the manipulation of benchmarks can have devastating consequences for the european economy. so we have to ensure their integrity. under this regulation, administrators of all benchmarks will be required to register with the european securities and markets authority (esma) and to publish a declaration of compliance specifying the use of their benchmark and its reliability. they will also have liability (code of conduct) and record-keeping constraints, as well as audit and review requirements. the regulation also requires reciprocity for indices from third countries. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the introduction of a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as reference points in the union's financial instruments. its main objectives are to improve governance and ensure that administrators avoid conflicts of interest, to improve the quality of input data and the methods used, to ensure that contributors to the benchmarks are subject to adequate controls, and to ensure adequate protection for benchmark users by improving transparency, ensuring adequate rights of appeal, and ensuring relevance. considering that improving the process of calculating benchmarks and increasing transparency is essential to avoid conflicts of interest, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to make the formulae for calculating indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments more transparent, following the libor and euribor manipulation scandals. the indices concerned may be conventional stock market indices (e.g. cac 40), indices on rates (monetary, foreign exchange), on the price of raw materials, or even on meteorology or energy prices. indices produced by central banks and press companies (trade newspapers) are largely exempt. indices with an objective calculation formula (stock exchange rates) are less controlled, because they are less manipulable. it is also intended to allow the use of indices issued in third countries, provided that they comply with a list of criteria to ensure their reliability, defined by iosco. the text, which is rather complex in its implementation, would have benefited from a less restrictive definition of the critical indices. but as it is a step forward and gives national regulators the main control functions, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the text would probably have been better if it had adopted a less restrictive definition of critical indices, but it is a step forward and gives national regulators the main control functions.
in writing. ‒ the text would probably have been better if it had adopted a less restrictive definition of critical indices, but it is a step forward and entrusts the main monitoring functions to national regulators. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which introduces a comprehensive approach to ensuring the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. it provides a better framework for the development of 'critical' benchmarks such as libor and euribor, which had been subject to fraudulent manipulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. the libor and euribor manipulation scandals prompted the european union to legislate on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments. the idea of the regulation is to make their calculation formula transparent, to frame the governance of their suppliers in order to prevent conflicts of interest and to subject them to some form of control by regulators, while respecting a principle of proportionality, in order to distinguish according to the sensitivity of indices to fraud and their importance in the financial system. the text would probably have been better if it had adopted a less restrictive definition of critical indices, but it is a step forward and entrusts the main monitoring functions to national regulators. on the other hand, as is often the case, we will regret a text which is probably complex in its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is intended to respond to the libor and euribor scandals involving the manipulation of indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments. the draft regulation gives a precise definition of the indices that can be used, makes their calculation formula transparent, and provides a framework for the governance of their providers in order to prevent conflicts of interest. last but not least, it entrusts the national regulators with the main control functions.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to provide a framework for the main benchmarks for financial instruments and contracts. in the wake of the libor and euribor scandals in 2008, the commission wants to prevent any further controversy over manipulation or conflict of interest. the report therefore focuses on the critical indices (cac 40), on rates (monetary, foreign exchange) and on the price of raw materials (e.g. meteorology, energy prices). the aim is to define the governance of their suppliers and to promote the transparency of calculations. this is therefore a step forward in this area. the rapporteur also leaves the power of control to the national regulators. for all these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this report follows the libor and euribor manipulation scandals. it complements the market abuse directive. it aims to control price indices (stock market indices, commodity price indices, etc.) by making their price formula transparent and by controlling the providers of such indices (in particular to limit the risks of conflicts of interest). the various indices are classified by degree of sensitivity. the applicable level of control depends on the degree of sensitivity of the index concerned. indices produced by central banks and press companies are not covered by this report. this text is the result of a long legislative process: the commission's initial proposal dates from september 2013. it was put to the vote of the european parliament in may 2015. the final report is disappointing because of the narrow definition of the indices to which it applies. we welcome the regulation and the broad powers granted to national legislators. the latter are granted the bulk of the control powers.
in writing. ‒ a benchmark is a value or indicator calculated on the basis of a representative set of data or information. it is used to value financial instruments or contracts, or to measure the performance of an investment fund. the london interbank offered rate (libor) and the euro interbank offered rate (euribor), which serve as benchmarks for interbank interest rates, are examples of benchmarks. any risk of manipulation of benchmarks can undermine market confidence, cause significant losses for investors and, above all, distort the real economy. the commission and parliament's report propose improving the control and governance of the referral process to avoid manipulation. the report stresses the need to combat conflicts of interest and ensure transparency. but these few efforts pale in comparison with the manipulation of these indices that has already occurred in the past. in particular, the text does not propose the creation of alternative indices measuring the real economy rather than speculative forecasts. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to provide better guidance for the production of benchmarks for certain commodities in order to avoid price manipulation. in the interests of transparency, this text represents an improvement which should make calculations more objective. this would give investors a better idea of the situation and would help markets to function better. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the libor and euribor manipulation scandals have led the european authorities to legislate on benchmarks, in addition to the 'sanctions' component of the market abuse directive. we must support this initiative. the idea of the regulation is to make their calculation formula transparent, to frame the governance of their suppliers in order to prevent conflicts of interest and to subject them to some form of control by regulators, while respecting a principle of proportionality, in order to distinguish according to the sensitivity of indices to fraud and their importance in the financial system. the text, which was the result of a lengthy procedure, would have finally succeeded in adopting a less restrictive definition of the critical indices, limited in practice to libor and euribor, but it constitutes a step forward and entrusts the national regulators with the main monitoring functions. on the other hand, as is often the case, we will regret a text which is probably complex in its implementation. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this text would probably have been better if a less restrictive definition of critical indices had been adopted, but it is a step forward and entrusts the main monitoring functions to national regulators. this text seems complex in its implementation, but in so far as it presents some progress, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to restore the integrity of benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts after the recent scandals that revealed the manipulation of euribor and libor, the two most important indices in the union. the report aims to strengthen the constraints, in particular by requiring administrators to register with the european securities and markets authority or by requiring them to publish a declaration of compliance specifying the use of their index and its reliability.
in writing. ‒ the libor and euribor manipulation scandals have led european authorities to look at indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments, in addition to the 'sanctions' component of the market abuse directive. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to grant a derogation to the member states in respect of the use of the financial instrument for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the text distinguishes three main categories of indices: critical indices (over eur 500 billion), significant indices (over eur 50 billion) and non-significant indices. each of these is matched by bonds and only libor and euribor remain in the category of critical indices. indices produced by central banks and press companies (trade newspapers) are largely exempt. indices with an objective calculation formula (stock exchange rates) are less controlled, because they are less manipulable. the text would probably have been better if it had adopted a less restrictive definition of critical indices, but it is a step forward and gives national regulators most of the control. it is likely that the text will be difficult to implement, but it is a step forward in terms of transparency and objectivity of calculations, allowing markets to function better. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new regulation which aims to improve the governance of the european union's financial instruments and to reduce the risk of volatility for these same financial market instruments.
in writing. ‒ libor and euribor are overnight lending rates indices on the interbank market, which have been gradually used as benchmarks in millions of contracts between individuals (credit loans, mortgages). in june 2012, the libor scandal erupted around the manipulation of these rates by banks, aimed either at optimizing their market operations or to display apparent solidity and credibility. the scandal demonstrated that benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts were subject to conflicts of interest, poor governance and the risk of fraudulent practices. the commission proposal aims to establish a common regulatory framework to strengthen governance and transparency, and thus prevent these fraudulent practices, while ensuring a high level of protection for consumers and investors. more generally, it is the integrity of indices that needs to be restored in order not to undermine market confidence, distort the real economy or cause serious losses to investors and consumers. i therefore voted in favour of this report which supports the proposed direction and aims to ensure the accuracy, robustness and integrity of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets the reference interest rates. these rates are of fundamental importance for the stability of financial markets in europe. this new legislation makes reference rates more reliable and aims to streamline the process of calculating benchmarks. the purpose of this text is to avoid conflicts of interest. all benchmark administrators will need to be authorised and registered with a competent authority and have a clear organisational structure with effective control procedures. i therefore supported this reform of the benchmarks, which are important for citizens who have taken out a loan, given that these indices are used to establish the price of oil and the exchange rate of the euro.
in writing. ‒ the libor and euribor manipulation scandals have led the european authorities to legislate on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments, in addition to the 'sanctions' component of the market abuse directive. this text contributes to the transparency of the european financial market by guaranteeing the reliability of the indices. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted against this discharge, which is still too conciliatory in view of the many problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, the fruit of a long process by my colleague martina dlabajová, because this discharge will mark a new era of transparency for the financial interests of the european union as a whole. at a time when the confidence of the european union and the stability of european economies are under pressure, it is important to ensure the efficient management of european funds while guaranteeing maximum transparency, objectivity and efficiency for projects eligible for community funding.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge on the implementation of the budget: three quarters of the projects undertaken under the multiannual programme have reportedly reached their objectives. the report also notes that the commission has not yet taken action on the 2013 discharge, but that the court has already taken action on the 2013 discharge. however, i did not vote for this report, which is not sufficiently critical in view of the problems identified: thus, in addressing the commission's management, whose vagaries or error rates are highlighted, the report takes care to congratulate it on the simplification measures put in place and the de-bureaucratisation of procedures which would have partially lightened the administrative burden on the member states, when the opposite is proven.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the discharge for the general budget of the european union for 2014, in particular that for the european commission and the executive agencies. for the 21st consecutive year, payments are marked by a significant error rate due to the partial effectiveness of the control and monitoring systems. payments appear to be affected by a likely error rate of 4.4%, with the highest levels of error for expenditure on economic, social and territorial cohesion (5.7%) and competitiveness for growth and jobs (5.6%). the report mentions many internal errors or malfunctions. several amendments were tabled by our group on the resolution to reverse migration flows, to highlight the weaknesses of the cap, to underline the dangers of ttip or to lift the sanctions against russia. i also voted for the end of subsidies from the european budget for activities that practice animal torture. as i am opposed to the commission and its control over the member states, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report regrets that the error rates found, affecting payments, remain relatively high, echoing the comments on the 2013 discharge. it also regrets that of the 65 recommendations of the court, only 20 have been fully implemented. in addition to fraud, the ineligibility of certain projects or cost reimbursements remains high, such as infringements of public procurement rules, not to mention misleading declarations of areas eligible for agricultural or rural financing. from a general point of view, this report is a summary of positive generalities with regard to the commission, including some attempts to place the commission's action in a position of "controller" of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report gives discharge to the commission and the executive agencies for the implementation of the general budget of the european union. it stressed the need to protect the union's financial interests by giving greater weight to results and optimising overall functioning through greater cooperation between the member states and the institutions. the committee also calls for improved management and control of european funds. this would strengthen the commission's control over the member states, which would undermine our national sovereignty. that is why i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant the discharge for the financial year 2014 to the european commission. the court of auditors delivered a favourable opinion on the reliability of the accounts for 2014, as it has done since 2007. the commission also concluded that the revenue was free from material error in 2014. however, the increase in the error rate for operational expenditure managed directly by the commission is to be deplored, as it brings it for the first time to the same level as the error rate for expenditure under shared management with the member states, which is a recurring problem. in view of all these factors, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. it stressed the need for more efficient management of european funds, the importance of regular evaluation of projects more geared to results, the need for member states to optimise their practices and the need to pursue a more intensive cohesion policy to reduce inequalities within the european union. i voted against this report, which is a summary of positive generalities about the commission, including some attempts to place the commission in a position of control of the member states.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report is a summary of positive generalities about the commission, including some attempts to place the commission's action in a position of 'controller' of the member states.
in writing. the general impression i get from this large report of 111 pages, divided into 606 points of technical and political remarks on the management of the european budget, is that the european union is really a gas factory, and what is more, a gas factory that is not very efficient and not very well managed. despite parliament's repeated requests and common sense, the issue of performance and results is not sufficiently taken into account. for when it comes to public money, taxpayers' money and workers' money, whether at local, national or european level, the priority concerns must be the usefulness of expenditure and its effective contribution to the stated objectives of the policies it funds. if i believe the rapporteur, it is a failure. it also regretted the error rates observed. i am surprised that they are not higher, given the unprecedented complexity of the regulations governing the use of the structural funds or the agricultural funds, for example. it also tends to be much more lenient towards direct management of funds by the commission than towards those managed by the states, exempting the former at the expense of the latter. for all these reasons, and many others, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report concludes on the need to continue efforts in the european union to increase the performance of funded projects, as well as to maintain uniform and shared management procedures by member states. it is a summary of positive generalities about the commission, including some attempts to place the commission in a position of "controller" of the member states. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to be given to the european commission and the executive agencies. the resolution is a summary of positive generalities about the commission, including some attempts to place the commission in a position of 'controller' of the member states. the many management and control errors should have been the subject of a much more critical report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge report because the error rate in the implementation of the 2014 eu budget is 4.4%, which is too high. moreover, only 20 of the 65 recommendations of the court of auditors were followed! finally, the report is servile to the brussels commission, while at the same time pointing out its lack of transparency in the tobacco agreement with philip morris.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it takes stock of the use made of the european funds allocated to the member states. it analyses in broad outline the financing of funds for the reception of refugees and the financing of the common agricultural policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. for example, it welcomes the success of the cap, particularly with the financing of the eagf and eafrd, which is nonsense.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. this report on the activities of the commission and its agencies highlights many negative points: the high rate of payment errors (4.4%); the lack of evaluation of the results of projects initiated or subsidised; the lack of communication on the activities of the commission and its agencies; the persistent cases of fraud and the issue of conflicts of interest; the lack of transparency by the commission for certain agreements, in particular the commercial agreement with philip morris. the report nevertheless stresses the diversification of programme funding. this report therefore contains comments aimed at improving the performance of programmes initiated and/or subsidised by the european union and at greater transparency. but it has no practical consequences. for this reason we cannot approve the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european commission and executive agencies for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised at the time have all come true, and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at the time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the european union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 000 000 000), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 000 000 000 at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is not sufficiently critical of current events. the cap, for example, is praised, the commission's lack of transparency is only mentioned. the report is not lacking in reminding states of their obligations to the objectives. in short, the text is characterized by a great deal of complacency towards the commission. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the many problems identified in the functioning of the institutions concerned, the lack of critical distance in this report is regrettable. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european commission and the executive agencies. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies many problems, of varying severity, and always blames them on the member states, relieving the commission of its responsibilities and making it the big controller of everything. this is a beatific vision of the european institutions which does not take any real measure of the dysfunctions, the lack of transparency or the attacks on the peaceful exercise of democracy. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european commission and its executive agencies for the financial year 2014. i object to the amendment which sought to oppose the use of the european budget and the cap for bullfighting. i would like to remind you that the european union does not finance bullfighting. it has no legal authority to legislate on this subject. each state is free to authorize and protect its regional traditions. this is the case in france, since it is subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ there are several reasons why i voted in favour of this discharge procedure for the year 2014 in respect of the activities of the commission and its executive agencies. first, and this is a constant concern of our group, the report makes a strong recommendation to improve the efficiency of the general budget of the european union by adopting a more performance and results-based approach in funded projects. the idea is also to make the budget easier for european citizens to understand and read. we also drew the commission's attention to the still too high error rate in expenditure (4.6%) in shared (with member states) and direct (by the commission) management compared to the 2% rate recommended by the european court of auditors. in this sense, we call on the commission to exercise greater control in the management of european expenditure (80 per cent of it being managed by the member states) and in supporting projects that are more in line with the objectives of the european union.
in writing. i abstained on this discharge which corrects the malfunctions but in an insufficient way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the court of auditors looks at several programmes run by the commission and the member states in the european union: without agreeing that they are useless, the court is concerned about the high cost of some of these programmes, which is inversely proportional to the results obtained, and points out the lack of efficiency, lack of clarity or too lax management. the report specifies the different ways of implementing each of these projects (e.g. the policy of subsidising rural programmes or improving river transport conditions) and concludes that european funds are sometimes used in a risky way, but without identifying the causes (bad practices, inadequate initial definition of projects, lack of reliable data base) or the responsible parties (commission, member states, agencies). i therefore abstained on this report, which can only be deplored for the lack of precision in its analyses and conclusions.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the 2014 discharge on the court of auditors' special reports, which contain information on important aspects of the implementation of the funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. i see, in fact, few major corrections following this discharge, although important malfunctions are highlighted. the corrections made are, in 50% of cases, corrections for the member states. i therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concludes, in muted terms, that the policies assessed are very relative and that european funds are sometimes used in a risky way, but without seriously highlighting the causes (bad practices, inadequate initial definition of projects, lack of reliable data base) or the responsible parties (commission, member states involved, responsible agencies, etc.). we know the court's usual caution in identifying 'guilty parties', in particular to avoid being 'removed' from the european audit processes by the commission or parliament. i can only regret the lack of precision in the analyses and their conclusions. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the court of auditors reviews a number of programmes and policies pursued by the commission and the member states in the european union. the text highlights the sometimes risky use of european funds, but without seriously emphasising the causes of bad practices, an inadequate initial definition of projects, the absence of a reliable database, or the responsible parties, namely the commission, the member states involved or the agencies concerned. regrettably, the analyses and conclusions are not precise enough, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report lacks precision in its analyses and conclusions.
in writing. ‒ the report specifies the different paths to follow for each of these projects and summarises its recommendations in each of the chapters dealing with these topics. it concludes that the policies assessed are functioning very relatively and that european funds are sometimes being used in a risky way, but without seriously highlighting the causes (bad practices, inadequate initial definition of projects, lack of reliable data base) or the responsible parties (the commission, the member states involved, the agencies concerned in particular). i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the commission discharge for the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the 2014 discharge. the court of auditors' special reports contain information on important aspects of the implementation of the funds, which is therefore useful to parliament in its role as discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the european commission's discharge for the financial year 2014. in its report, the court of auditors reviews a number of programmes and policies implemented by the commission and the member states in the european union. the comments and recommendations concern cooperation policies, both internal and external to the union. they point to a lack of efficiency, lack of clarity or overly lax management. while not agreeing that they are useless, the court is concerned about the high cost of some programmes, in view of the results obtained on the ground. in a nutshell, the text concludes that the policies under assessment are functioning very relatively and that european funds are sometimes being used in a risky way, but without seriously highlighting the causes (bad practices, inadequate initial definition of projects, lack of reliable data base) or the people responsible.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is too complacent towards the all-powerful commission. although the court of auditors is concerned about the high cost of certain programmes, notes the low results achieved and even concludes half-heartedly that the policies assessed are only functioning to a very limited extent and that european funds are sometimes being used in a risky way, it does not raise the point that some programmes are useless and nevertheless gives a discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report details a range of projects, programmes and policies implemented by the european commission and the member states. the aim of this non-exhaustive list is to take stock of these actions through the study of their financing. each programme or policy is therefore recommended without being called into question. the text says that the policy of subsidising rural programmes lacks transparency, that the commission's management of bilateral fisheries agreements lacks rigour in its application, etc. it is natural to correct mistakes after such an assessment, but no proposal goes in that direction. furthermore, the whole report is risky and the analyses are not accurate. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. this report by the court of auditors reviews a number of programmes and policies implemented by the commission and the member states. in all these cases, the following are highlighted: insufficient monitoring of policies and programmes, lack of rigour in the allocation of european grants or funds, insufficient supervision of agencies, etc. the projects and policies covered are numerous and cover all areas of european union action: agricultural subsidies, european union police missions in afghanistan, bilateral fisheries agreements, etc. as with the other reports, we understand the need for the court of auditors to remain measured in its criticisms of the european institutions. however, given the lack of precision in the criticisms and conclusions of this report, we cannot vote for discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ there are many recommendations, and the paths to follow are specified. all this leads to a conclusion without scandal: the causes of poor results or risky operations are not really highlighted. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ there are few major corrections proposed in this text, those that are present often concern the management of the member states. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the special reports of the european court of auditors in the context of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2014. these special reports contain important information, particularly on the implementation of the funds, and are therefore useful to the european parliament in its role as budgetary discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ in a nutshell, the report concludes that the policies it assesses are only relatively effective and that eu funds are sometimes used in a risky way, but without seriously highlighting the causes (bad practices, inadequate initial definition of projects, lack of reliable data base) or the responsible parties (commission, agencies concerned, etc.). even if we know the court's usual caution in identifying 'guilty parties', in particular to avoid being 'removed' from the european audit processes by the commission or parliament, we can only regret the lack of precision in the analyses and conclusions. for these reasons, i prefer to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the european commission's discharge for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report specifies the different paths to follow for each of these projects and summarises its recommendations in each of the chapters dealing with these topics. in a nutshell, it concludes that the policies assessed are functioning very well and that european funds are sometimes being used in a risky way, but without seriously highlighting the causes (bad practices, inadequate initial definition of projects, lack of reliable data base) or the responsible parties (commission, member states involved, agencies concerned, etc.). even if we know the court's usual caution in identifying 'guilty parties', in particular to avoid being 'removed' from the european audit processes by the commission or parliament, we can only regret the lack of precision in the analyses and their conclusions. i therefore vote against.
in writing. i did not vote for this discharge because of the non-respect of public procurement procedures and the lack of supporting documents for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european development funds are an indispensable instrument for responding to the various aspects of crises in developing countries and can provide a response to tackling the root causes of irregular migration. however, such aid must be given to countries which respect democratic principles in order to ensure that the funds are used properly.
in writing. ‒ this report asks for the commission to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. in this implementation, the beneficiaries' failure to comply with public procurement procedures and the lack of supporting documents for expenditure, which represent 63% of the estimated error rate, are to be deplored. this lack of transparency in the management of funds, despite the good intentions of the rapporteur for this discharge, has led me to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this discharge reflects the low level of commitments in 2014 (eur 621 million) compared to 2013 (eur 3,923 billion) and 2012 (eur 3,163 billion), which is due to the late entry into force of the 11th edf and the limited transitional resources made available by the transition mechanism (eur 1,616 billion). the discharge also notes the very high level of payment appropriations (eur 3,516 billion) compared to 2013 (eur 2,963 billion). i am also concerned about the error rate indicated by the court of auditors for edf expenditure, which increased for 3 consecutive years, from 2012 to 2014, to reach 3.8%. the balance to be settled is also still large: eur 9,7 billion at 31 december 2014. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. the management of its entire control system needs to be more rigorous. the report also stresses the important role of the edf in the migration crisis, but does not propose any real policy of co-development and nothing to solve the migration crisis, except more money. the overall lack of transparency in the management of the funds leads me to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the commission to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. it also approved the closure of the accounts of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. it should be noted that the non-compliance of the beneficiaries with public procurement procedures and the absence of supporting documents for expenditure are still the two main types of error and represent 63% of the estimated error rate. the rapporteur also considers it essential to ensure the visibility of the union, which i do not agree with. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: deplores, inter alia, the non-compliance of beneficiaries with public procurement procedures and the lack of supporting documents for expenditure, both of which are the main types of error and account for 63% of the estimated error rate.
in writing. ‒ we can deplore many negative aspects in this text, such as the non-compliance of the beneficiaries with public procurement procedures and the lack of supporting documents for expenditure. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds (edf) for the financial year 2014. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the granting of a financial contribution to the european investment bank for the financing of the european investment bank. these errors account for 63% of the estimated error rate. the common ground of 'there can be no development without peace, and no peace without development' will not change that.
in writing. ‒ the european development fund (edf) is a tool to support actions that promote economic, social and human development. it also supports regional cooperation in developing territories. it does this on the basis of a budget divided into several funds. the report calls for the commission to be cleared of responsibility for this year's budget, as the 2014 budget is being closed, despite several errors, such as the lack of supporting documents for expenditure. i voted against this report because i believe that there must be complete transparency in the financial management of the eu.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the report calls for the commission to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. beyond the pontificals on world peace and development, the report highlights the many flaws in the rules for awarding public contracts. expenditure is not always supported by adequate supporting documents. that is why we voted against this discharge. transparency is essential when it comes to public funds transferred from the member states to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the budgetary implementation of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i note a lack of transparency in the management of funds despite good intentions. no request for supporting documents for expenditure is mentioned. the commission has also been critical of the lack of respect for public procurement procedures. however, important malfunctions are highlighted. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ between the non-compliance with public procurement procedures and the lack of supporting documents for the expenditure, i have to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the 2014 budget discharge for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. the european development funds (edfs), financed by the member states, are the main vehicle for union development cooperation assistance to the african, caribbean and pacific states. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the edfs, the court of auditors considers that the accounts present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position as at 31 december 2014 and that the profit and loss, cash flow and net asset value for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the edf financial regulation and with internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the commission to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. it also approved the closure of the accounts of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. i particularly regret the fact that the beneficiaries did not respect the public procurement procedures. the serious problems raised by this report lead me to vote against this text and the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the implementation of the general budget of the eu, i am in favour of the discharge for the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th financial programmes of the european development fund (edf).
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the commission to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european development funds for the financial year 2014. it is regrettable, among other things, that in this report the non-compliance of beneficiaries with public procurement procedures and the absence of supporting documents for expenditure are still the two main types of error and account for 63% of the estimated error rate. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the report granting discharge for the european parliament's budget. as i said orally in the plenary, it is unacceptable that the two main political groups, the epp and the s&d, have agreed to simply remove the majority of the amendments stating that martin schulz used ep funds for electoral purposes during the 2014 campaign. the confusion was more than palpable between his travels on behalf of the institution and those to support candidates from his political family. on the other hand, the management of the european parliament as a whole does not seem to me to be a good family man. i do not think that the sumptuous expenditure on buildings and the budgetary allocations to elected representatives are necessary. finally, the issue of migrants is once again being inserted into this report, whereas it has nothing to do with the
in writing. ‒ i would like to return to the attitude of mr aliot, the fictitious enf rapporteur on this matter, who had accustomed us to a little more political sense. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it also tries to obscure the work of the third party payers, whose role is to act as an intermediary between the institution and members in the payment of salaries and social security contributions. a reminder to all fn meps that this is none other than mr crochet, who is mentioned in the panama papers and in many other fn cases. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement. this initiative, mr aliot's only one on this report, says a lot about his idea of the exercise of power and his practice when it comes to protecting the interests of his party.
in writing. i voted against this discharge which is too uncritical because of the political agreements between the epp and the socialists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european parliament is results-oriented and therefore effective in its objectives. at a time when the confidence of the european union and the stability of european economies are under pressure, it is important to ensure the efficient management of european funds while guaranteeing maximum transparency, objectivity and efficiency for projects eligible for community funding.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge on the implementation of the budget, pointing out the relative slowness with which the secretary-general (of parliament) has responded to questions from members of the cont committee, and calls for this to be corrected next year. a number of specific points are addressed, including the operation of the allowance for the care of visitor groups and its more precise alignment with the real cost of such visits (73.14% of the sums are paid in cash, without any possibility of actual control, while amounts of up to eur 24.593 million are mentioned). the report also includes criticisms of the system for statistical evaluation of members' activities. the rapporteur is not alarmed, however, by the excesses in certain spending or by the malfunctions he sees. that is why i could not vote in favour of this discharge report.
in writing. ‒ parliament's final appropriations for 2014 amounted to eur 1 755 631 742, representing an increase of 0.3% compared to the 2013 budget (eur 1 750 463 939). the final text remains uncritical following the agreement of circumstances between the epp and s&d. the committee also calls for the eu to be able to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. there would be funding for his travel during the european campaign from the parliament's budget and the same would be true for certain officials. several requests are also made such as the detail of two grants to the votewatch website or the high price of the european parliament website while it is still inconvenient to navigate and look for the right information. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ beyond the detailed examination, almost department by department, and the mention of concrete or political problems, the discharge report merely suggests and proposes solutions without imposing them. it is not alarmed or alarmed by excessive expenditure or by any malfunction it sees. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the general budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2014. the budget is used to pay the allowances and general expenses of members of the european parliament and to finance cultural projects such as the house of european history. however, this text does not propose any concrete solution or any sanction for parliament's departments in the event of non-compliance with the recommendations made by the court of auditors. add to this the vague terms and the uncertain transparency. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament must have a budget adapted to its role as co-legislator and representative of european citizens. the budget must also reflect the changes in the current context, which calls for more substantial measures, particularly in the field of security. the use of this budget by the european parliament must be duly monitored, as must the other european institutions and agencies. parliament must be an example of sound financial management for the rest of the european public administrations. i voted in favour of the decision to give the european parliament discharge for the year 2014. however, i voted against paragraph 23 which calls for a road map for a single seat. i would remind you that the european parliament is based in strasbourg and that there is no need to change the treaties in this respect.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge for the 2014 budget year to the european parliament, which had a final current appropriation of eur 1.755 billion, an increase of 0.3% compared to the 2013 budget. the audit of the reliability of the accounts did not reveal any serious deficiencies, so i voted in favour of discharge. nevertheless, i opposed paragraph 22 of the resolution, which calls 'once again for parliament and the council, in order to generate sustainable savings, to establish a road map for a single seat, the need for which has been stressed by parliament in several of its previous resolutions'. i am not in favour of such an idea, which could in the long run call into question the status of strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. that is why i voted against this paragraph.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. it opens with the follow-up to the 2013 opinions where, at the time, the discharge had given rise to recommendations that were followed differently, whether it was the improvement of the meal services or the functioning of internal management. the report therefore covers a wide range of subjects, both political and practical, and calls on the parliament's secretariat-general to deal with them. the discharge report does not deal with the specific problems in detail, almost department by department, and does not mention them in concrete or political terms. it merely suggests and proposes solutions without imposing them. it is not alarmed or alarmed by excessive expenditure or by any malfunction it sees. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the discharge report merely suggests and proposes solutions without imposing them. it is not alarmed or alarmed by excessive expenditure or by any malfunction it sees.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the discharge of the european parliament for 2014. i will mention only a few reasons, in a somewhat confused way, since this institution is not run any better than the others: the crazy suggestion, finally rejected, to ban meps from any paid outside activity during their mandate; the parliament's still unclear and costly real estate policy; the desire to regulate the activities of local assistants to the extent that, judging from the reform that came into force in 2016, they may be calling into question fundamental rights, in particular political and associative rights, which are recognised by the legislation of the countries where they are employed; the failure to call into question certain expenditure, such as the lux prize, which has only a very distant relation to the activity of a parliament; the very hypocritical indulgence, in fine, of the european parliament towards itself, when it is the only institution that enjoys the exorbitant right to judge its own management. and above all, the complicity between the socialist and christian-democratic groups in softening the criticisms and questions put to mr schulz, who allegedly used the means at his disposal as president of parliament for electoral purposes, criticisms and questions to which he only very imperfectly answered.
in writing. ‒ beyond the detailed examination, almost department by department, and the mention of concrete or political problems, the discharge report merely suggests and proposes solutions without imposing them. it is not alarmed or alarmed by excessive expenditure or by any malfunction it sees. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the president of the european parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european parliament and against the resolution. the commission takes advantage of the discharge procedure to return to some critical issues, such as the management of the members' general expenses allowance, or projects as useless as they are costly, such as the lux prize or the house of european history. beyond the detailed examination, almost department by department, and the mention of concrete or political problems, the discharge report merely suggests and proposes solutions, with little determination. it is not alarmed or alarmed by excessive expenditure or by any malfunction it sees.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge report because it is not sufficiently critical of the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european parliament. he is obsessed with the quality and price of the food served in the "cafeteria" and does not stress enough the real problems: 350 000 euros spent at a loss to encourage citizens to vote in the european elections, almost 600 000 euros spent to finance the lux (cinema) prize that nobody knows about, or pharaonic sums wasted to create a "house of european history" whose opening has already been delayed by two years. one positive point to note, however: he pines martin schulz, guilty of having mixed his office of president with partisan activities.
in writing. - i voted against this text. indeed, during the 2014 discharge on the implementation of the budget, many remarks were raised, from subsidies paid to parliament's service providers to the cost of interpretation and translation services. every department in parliament has been screened, but the results of this study are not conclusive. the rapporteur merely makes suggestions to correct the problems, rather than imposing solutions.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. this report points to the pattern of the european parliament's operating expenditure and the lack of transparency in certain expenditure or projects. in particular, the following are noted: the poor functioning of the canteen; the payment in cash of the allowance for the care of visitor groups; possible conflicts of interest in the allocation of european grants to ngos; the relevance and future of the 'house of european history' project; the cost/benefit ratio of the luxembourg annex; the private supplementary pension fund, whose deficit reaches eur 270 million; communication expenditure, the effectiveness of which is not proven; the security of buildings, including the sometimes poor training of security staff. the report calls for a healthy rationalisation of operating costs, but no strong measures are proposed, even though the excessive amount of certain operating expenditure should be a cause for concern to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a quitus for the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european parliament. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ despite a very detailed examination, the text is too lax in making recommendations or proposing solutions. the discharge report does not raise its voice in the face of soaring expenditure or worrying malfunctions. it must be said that if this text was not critical enough, it also suffered the arrangements of a ppe/s&d cartel which is co-opting in unison, without caring what anyone says. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this text is clearly far too uncritical of the shortcomings of parliament's management. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on discharge for the 2014 budget for the european parliament. i voted against amendments which would have put the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg in question. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the report points to many internal dysfunctions in parliament but remains well-measured in its criticisms. the epp and s&d groups wanted to remove many of the remarks directly concerning mr schulz. as with almost everything in the european union, parliament is not functioning well, but it is giving lessons in good management to the whole world. in these circumstances i refuse to vote for the discharge and therefore oppose the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. however, this text is anything but transparent as regards the analysis of budgetary dysfunctions. the discharge report does not deal with the specific problems in detail, almost department by department, and does not mention them in concrete or political terms. it merely suggests and proposes solutions without imposing them. it is not alarmed or alarmed by excessive expenditure or by any malfunction it sees. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report points to shortcomings in cooperation in the discharge process. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for the postponement of the council's discharge to october 2016, given the lack of cooperation with parliament on the provision of the documents necessary for the evaluation of expenditure. the council must urgently participate in the dumping and be more transparent.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed, citing the lack of clear indicators in the evaluation of council expenditure to justify its inability to give a ruling on their budgetary management. it sets out shortcomings which could be avoided by better budget forecasting by the council. as every year, the report takes up the idea of imposing a separation between the council and european council budgets in order to ensure more transparent financial management, a constraint which the council seems to want to avoid. in short, every pretext is used to emphasize the absence of parliament's control over the council's budgetary activity. without endorsing the desire to impose on the council the control of its accounts by parliament and the court, i voted in favour of this report which points to shortcomings in cooperation in the discharge process, which is detrimental to the veracity of the european union's findings and accounts.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the european council and the council had a general budget of eur 534 million, 91.3% of which was implemented, but the report remains concerned about the high percentage of unused appropriations in almost all areas. there are serious malfunctions in the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. they also stress the worrying lack of transparency in the legislative process, negotiations, member states' positions and meetings. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report, which is in favour of greater transparency and which identifies shortcomings that need to be highlighted.
in writing. ‒ this second section deals with the implementation of the european council's budget. the text calls for better budget forecasting by the council and for more transparency in negotiations with the member states. in addition, the lack of clarity in the accounts submitted by this european institution is emphasised. all this highlights the absence of parliament's control over the council's budgetary activity, an absence which must be filled. i therefore voted in favour of this report calling for the postponement of discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to postpone the decision on the discharge to be given to the european council and the council for the financial year 2014, as parliament has not received any reply to the questions and requests put forward during this and previous discharge periods by the european council and the council. in view of this repetitive and unnecessary situation, it is appropriate to consider various options for updating the rules for granting discharge to the council, the budgetary authority, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. supporting the conclusions of this report, i voted for the postponement of the discharge decision for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, the budgetary authority of the european union, has once again refused to grant the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. as long as the council refuses to provide the necessary information, to answer written questions, and to attend hearings and debates on the implementation of its budget, the european parliament will adopt the same firm stance and refuse to grant discharge. this is the very principle of democratic control.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. the report also raises concerns about the systematic carry-over of grants from one year to the next, which is contrary to the rules of european financial regulation. the report stresses the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes and calls for better application of the conflict of interest rules; it suggests that the members of the council and the european council should complete a financial statement published on the internet. the report also looks at the delivery of the europe building by the end of 2015 and asks for the exact cost of systematically postponing the project deadlines. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: any pretext is used to underline the absence of parliament's control over the council's budgetary activity. without endorsing the view repeatedly expressed in this document, namely that the council should be required to have its accounts audited by parliament and the court of justice, we would not be able to approve the discharge.
in writing. ‒ one explanation of vote to explain my rejection of discharge, or its postponement, as the case may be, for the implementation of the budgets of the various institutions or bodies of the union having equivalent powers. my reasons are varied: sometimes the usefulness of the body is not demonstrated, the functioning and/or composition are subject to caution to say no more (court of justice, economic and social committee, european external action service, ombudsman), the management is unclear (committee of the regions), the staff sometimes in conflict of interests (data protection supervisor)... and although i know that by definition the texts on budgetary control are fond of euphemisms and circumlocutions, the so-called figures of speech in all these reports are hard to cover up the deep indulgence and weakness of the critics. i think it was a european solidarity. at least the court of auditors in france succeeds in expressing truly murderous judgments in this way. this is not even a scratch, since almost all the criticisms that are made are endorsed. the only exception is the discharge of the court of auditors, which is rigorous, but i dare not imagine what sums of gabegie the union would have achieved if it had been otherwise.
in writing. ‒ every pretext is used to emphasise the absence of parliament's control over the council's budgetary activity. without endorsing the view repeatedly expressed in this document, namely that the council should be required to have its accounts audited by parliament and the court of justice, i cannot, in this context, approve the discharge, which is why i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report postponing the discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the critical report, and therefore against the discharge to the council and the european council. the text calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. the council's budgetary procedure is not yet fully in line with the budgetary procedure. the report raises concerns about the systematic carry-over of grants from one year to the next, which is contrary to european financial regulation rules. as every year, the report takes up the idea of imposing a separation between the council and european council budgets, in order to ensure more transparent financial management. the report requires the council to provide parliament with accurate data on its staff and their breakdown by age, departments, categories, grades, etc. the report naturally stresses the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes and calls for better application of the rules on conflicts of interest; it suggests that the members of the council and the european council should complete a financial statement published on the internet.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because, for once, it calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. the report denounces in particular a lack of transparency, the absence of parliament's control over the council's budgetary activity, and systematic deferral of subsidies from one year to the next in contradiction with the european financial regulation rules. interestingly, the report points out the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes.
in writing. ‒ the text deals more specifically with the budget and expenditure of the council and the european council. he stressed the lack of transparency in the budgetary management of the two institutions. but it also focuses on this opacity in negotiations between the member states and the council and the european council, or between parliament and the council. in doing so, the report touches on a sensitive point in the functioning of the european union. the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. the committee therefore rightly considers that it is impossible to give a rigorous opinion on their budgetary management and calls for the discharge to be postponed. i agree with all of these points, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the discharge. the report argues that the lack of clear indicators in the evaluation of expenditure justifies its inability to give a rigorous opinion on budgetary management. it should be noted that the court of auditors had proposed a meeting of the budgets of the council and the european council. this proposal has so far been rejected. the staff of the council and the european council are not included: their remuneration and financial interests are, for the most part, outside the control of the court of auditors. finally, the transparency of interinstitutional negotiations, or of negotiations with the member states, is not guaranteed. the carry-over of grants from one year to the next is contrary to the rules of financial regulation. we generally agree with this analysis of the lack of transparency in management.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the european council and the council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the european union's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. we think this is relevant because the report makes it clear that parliament has no control over the council's activities. i do not agree wholeheartedly with the text, but i do recognize the need for parliament to have control over the council's accounts. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this text underlines the absence of parliamentary control over the council's budgetary activity. without endorsing the view repeatedly expressed in this document, namely the need to impose on the council the control of its accounts by parliament and the court, i cannot approve the discharge, so i approve its postponement and this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european council and the council. the discharge decision is postponed because of insufficient information (in particular because the institutions have not provided an annual activity report, including a detailed overview of all human resources available to the two institutions, broken down by category, grade, sex, nationality and vocational training). the text recalls that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to promote greater transparency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. the report raises concerns about the systematic carry-over of grants from one year to the next, in contravention of european financial regulation rules. i share the concerns and criticisms expressed and i support this text. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ budget discharge is the procedure by which the european parliament closes the budgetary year of the european union in a given year. this annual procedure is an important element of democratic accountability to the citizens of the union. for the sixth consecutive year, the european council and the council have refused to cooperate with the european parliament in providing the figures it needs to assess expenditure. that is why i voted in favour of postponing the decision on the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2014. without the necessary information, we are not in a position to make an informed decision. this is a breach of the duty of transparency towards the citizens with regard to the funds entrusted to it, which is why it is important to find a solution quickly so that the entire budget is controlled. this solution may include amending the financial regulation to clarify the objectives of the discharge procedure and to define the penalties applicable in the event of non-compliance with the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. the lack of transparency in the council and of cooperation between parliament and the council during the discharge procedure is debatable: a proper examination would require greater clarity in the accounts submitted by the council. every pretext is used to emphasize the absence of parliament's control over the council's budgetary activity. i urge you to postpone this discharge or to report it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge because of the lack of transparency in the preparation of the judges' work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to give the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 eu budget to the court of justice of the eu (cjeu). the european judicial system is composed of the court of justice of the european union, the general court of the eu and the civil service tribunal (cps). the system has been reformed, with a reduction in the length of time for proceedings, notably by doubling the number of judges (from 28 to 56). i voted against this text, which is a complacent report and harmful in that it paves the way for two reforms to which i am opposed (the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the tfp), and which reduces the requirement of transparency for judges regarding their external activities.
in writing. ‒ the report found that in 2014, the court of justice had a total of eur 355 367 500 in commitment appropriations (eur 354 880 000 in 2013). the court of justice has jurisdiction to hear and determine cases before it. the court of justice closed 719 cases in 2014 (compared to 701 in 2013) and received 622 new cases (compared to 699 in 2013). the report is extremely complacent towards the cjeu and this in the context of the reform of the cjeu and the desire to abolish the european civil service tribunal. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. - this text is a complacency report. it is equally harmful in that it paves the way for two reforms to which i have strongly opposed: the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the tfp, for which i asked for a postponement of the vote in the juri committee on 21 april. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report notes the court of auditors' intention to evaluate the court of justice's performance while improving transparency and budget optimisation. the rapporteur therefore calls for the publication of all resources relating to the external activities of judges. the report also deplores the insufficient number of women in positions of responsibility within the institution. in short, this text subtly passes two reforms which i oppose, namely the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the civil service tribunal. for all these reasons, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the eu (cjeu) is to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 eu budget. the european judicial system has been reformed, with the number of judges being doubled from 28 to 56, in addition to reducing the length of time for proceedings. the latter measure is clearly unnecessary and costly. however, the text welcomes the court's productivity and attributes it in part to the creation of nine temporary secretarial posts at the court of first instance. the tfp, on the other hand, is seen as a bad student and its lack of efficiency is pointed out. this is a complacency report. it is equally harmful in that it promotes two reforms to which we are opposed: the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the tfp. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this text is a complacency report. it is equally harmful in that it paves the way for two reforms that we oppose: the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the tfp.
in writing. - this text is a complacency report. it is equally pernicious in that it paves the way for two reforms that the enf group opposes, namely the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the tfp. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the court of justice. the european judicial system is composed of the court of justice of the european union, the general court of the eu and the civil service tribunal (cps). the system has been reformed, with a reduction in the length of time for proceedings, notably by doubling the number of judges (from 28 to 56). the latter is clearly unnecessary and costly. the report welcomes the improved budget execution compared to 2013. the text welcomes the court's productivity and attributes this in part to the creation of nine temporary posts of secretary at the court of first instance. the tfp, on the other hand, is seen as a bad student and its alleged lack of efficiency is pointed out. this is a complacency report. it is equally pernicious in that it paves the way for two reforms that i oppose: the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the tfp.
in writing. ‒ the report intends to give discharge to the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) for the implementation of the 2014 eu budget. it does indeed value the court of auditors' willingness to evaluate the performance of the court of justice. it also welcomed the creation of nine temporary posts of secretaries at the court of first instance and the doubling of the number of judges (from 28 to 56). these measures will increase expenditure and make procedures more cumbersome. the text also supports the abolition of the civil service tribunal (cps), an integral part of the european judicial system, which i cannot accept. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. this report deals with the european judicial system. the european judicial system consists of the european court of justice (ecj), the general court of the european union and the civil service tribunal. the report highlights improved budgetary execution of the judicial bodies of the european union compared to the year 2013. the report calls for the publication of the costs of the external activities of judges. under the guise of an objective assessment of the performance of the eu's judicial bodies, this complacency report is broad in the sense of the reforms envisaged by the european union, namely the increase in the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union and the abolition of the civil service tribunal.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the court of justice of the european union for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. - this report is called a complacency report. it is part of the prospect of reforming the cjeu. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - this text is a complacency report. it is equally pernicious in that it paves the way for two reforms that we oppose: the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the tfp. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to give a ruling on the discharge for the court of justice for the 2014 budget. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the court of justice, the court of auditors considers that the budget has been implemented without any significant deficiencies. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report is very complacent and entirely geared towards reforming the judicial institutions that the european union has built itself. i am opposed to this reform, which i believe will only be harmful to the people. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the court of justice of the eu for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision. as every year, our assembly exercises its right of budgetary control, through discharge, and examines whether the public funds of the union are being used correctly by its institutions and bodies. our assembly has therefore decided to grant discharge to the court of justice of the european union for the year 2014 on the basis of various elements. among these, it should be noted that no significant deficiencies were observed in the verification of the areas related to human resources and public procurement for the court of justice. the budget implementation rate also increased to 99% in 2014. however, there is still room for improvement. thus, all information concerning the external activities of judges should be publicly accessible. in addition, a declaration of financial interests of judges should be published online. an impact assessment should also be carried out on the current reform of the general court to ensure its timeliness.
in writing. - this text is a complacency report. it is equally harmful in that it paves the way for two reforms that we oppose: the increase in the number of judges and the abolition of the civil service tribunal. i vote against.
in writing. i voted for this discharge report, which is fairly balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget for the european court of auditors. the audit report on the court's accounts highlights that the budget implementation rate was 98% in 2014, which is a positive improvement. the report also stresses the importance of the court for the independent, transparent and effective evaluation of the accounts of the european institutions. it stressed that the court had a sound and careful management. the report welcomes the court's decision to focus its examinations on performance evaluation. the report welcomes the court's compliance with the 5% annual reduction in staff. in view of the relatively positive results of the court of auditors, i voted in favour of this rather balanced, albeit not very critical, report.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the court had final appropriations totalling eur 133 498 000 (eur 142 761 000 in 2013) and the overall budget implementation rate was 98.8%, compared to 92% in 2013. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor and the auditors' opinion is positive, stating that 'the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the court'. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which is generally positive, not very critical and which, in its conclusions, is concerned with maintaining excellent relations between the court and parliament.
in writing. ‒ while the court is responsible for assessing the quality and accuracy of the accounts of the other european institutions, its own accounts are audited by pricewaterhousecoopers. the report confirms the independence of the court of auditors in carrying out its audits and welcomes the fact that the court has taken the initiative to develop the subjects on which it intervenes. the rapporteur also welcomes the fact that the court has been able to reduce the time taken to produce its special reports. as for the internal management of the court of auditors, the audit shows that the european institution is able to reduce its staff by 5% per year. this overall positive report lacks, however, constructive recommendations. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. while the court is called upon to assess the quality and veracity of the accounts of the other institutions, its own accounts are audited by an external company. the report stresses the importance of the court for the independent, transparent and effective evaluation of the accounts of the european institutions. however, the court has announced a reform of its chamber system and the report asks it to specify its plan. the report confirms the independence of the court in carrying out its audits and welcomes the fact that the court has taken the initiative to expand the subjects on which it intervenes. in this respect, following a 2013 discharge recommendation, the report welcomes the court's decision to orient its examinations towards a performance evaluation. the report is generally positive, not critical, and its conclusions seek to preserve excellent relations between the court and parliament. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ abstention: a less critical report which, in its conclusions, takes care to maintain excellent relations between the court and parliament.
in writing. ‒ the report commends the court for its investment in paperlessness, its clear communications with the outside world and its smooth sharing of information with the committee on budgetary control. the report is generally positive, not critical, and its conclusions seek to preserve excellent relations between the court and parliament. i have decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the discharge to be given to the court of auditors. the report stresses the importance of the court for the independent, transparent and effective evaluation of the accounts of the european institutions. the report confirms the independence of the court in carrying out its audits and welcomes the initiative of the court to expand the scope of its work. the year 2014 was a favourable year for the production of numerous reports, for the reduction of the time needed to produce special reports and for their continued publication. as regards internal management, the report welcomes the observance of the 5% annual reduction in staff, the improvement in the gender balance, the better geographical distribution of nationalities within the organisation and the improved vocational training of its auditors. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. finally, the report commends the court for its investment in limiting the use of paper, its clear communications with the outside world, and its fluid sharing of information with the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on discharge because, although it does not denounce any major malfunctioning, it is not very critical and in its conclusions it is careful to maintain excellent relations between the court and parliament.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is also assessed as part of the evaluation of the 2014 budgets of all the institutions of the european union. however, in order to maintain full transparency and independence, it is audited by an external company, pricewaterhousecoopers. the study conducted by the company is positive and shows a clear increase in the budget execution rate (98% for 2014), an effort made with the decrease in the number of staff but also a good distribution of nationalities in the departments. the text therefore calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the court of auditors' budget. but he seems too uncritical to be entirely honest, in order to please the court and parliament. i abstained.
in writing. - i voted for the discharge. this report takes stock of the audit of the court of auditors by pricewaterhousecoopers. the conclusions of this paper are positive. the report welcomes:- the increased rate of budget implementation (98%);- increased productivity (greater number of reports);- reduced operating costs (a 5% reduction in staff per year, lower translation costs);- improved staff representativeness (male/female ratio, etc.);- communication between the court of auditors and the other european institutions, which allows for a wide dissemination of information. this report confirms the court of auditors' audit function. it encourages the latter to produce recommendations targeted by the member state. this report encourages the maintenance of mutually cooperative relations between the european parliament and the court of auditors. it provides analyses useful for the evaluation of public policies in the european union. we cannot therefore oppose the landfill.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the court of justice of the eu for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report's lack of criticism and very diplomatic attitude towards the court and parliament is positive. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report is generally positive, not critical and its conclusions seek to preserve excellent relations between the court and parliament. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the court of auditors for the 2014 budget. discharge is given by an independent external body, the court of auditors being unable to scrutinise itself. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the report is balanced, although not critical. the european court of auditors is very active and carefully manages its own budget. i therefore vote in favour of this report and the discharge.
in writing. ‒ as with the court of justice of the european union, i have supported this decision giving discharge to the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014. this year was also a record year in terms of output for the court of auditors, whose role is essential in ensuring that union funds are better spent. some points of satisfaction are to be noted, such as the court's reform project launched at the end of 2014, or the measures by which it intends to devote more resources to audits to monitor sound financial management. other points of satisfaction to mention are its first steps towards a paperless environment and its efforts to improve the gender balance among its staff. however, improvements must also be made. among other things, we would like to receive more information on the initiative to reform the chamber system. the commission should also examine the relationship between the number of its special reports and the need to publish them in good time, and it should stress the need for clarity in its recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge because of the importance of the increase in staff mission expenses: +14%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european economic and social committee complies with the budgetary rules and standards set by the court of auditors. nevertheless, i believe that improvements in administrative cost reductions are still possible, particularly at the political level. the two institutions, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, are in a position to further develop synergies which will improve productivity in the areas of cooperation at all levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014; out of the 15 procurement procedures it examined, four cases had weaknesses; the increase in the staff's mission expenses, from eur 338 366 in 2013 to eur 387 481 in 2014 (an increase of 14,5%), is also regrettable. the real cost system remains too expensive and many weaknesses are identified in public procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the eesc's budget was eur 128.559.380 (eur 130.104.400 in 2013), a decrease of 1.19% compared to the 2013 annual budget, with a utilization rate of 95.6%. i also regret the increase in staff mission expenses, which went from eur 338 366 in 2013 to eur 387 481 in 2014 (an increase of 14,5%). i support requests such as the definition of a systematic strategy to substantially reduce travel costs and allowances paid to eesc beneficiaries (the total amount of reimbursements for these costs was eur 17 374 864 in 2014) or information on the reasons for the increase in the number of legal opinions delivered by the legal affairs unit during 2014. as a natural opponent of the eesc, i decided to vote against it for the reasons explained above.
in writing. ‒ although there was a decrease of 1.19% in 2014 compared to the 2013 annual budget, it is worrying that the total amount of travel expenses and allowances paid to eesc beneficiaries was eur 17 374 864. the increase in staff mission expenses from eur 338 366 in 2013 to eur 387 481 in 2014, i.e. an increase of 14,5%, is also regrettable. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of their budget for the financial year 2014. we note that weaknesses were identified in four of the 15 procurement procedures examined. although the eesc's budget decreased by 1.19% between 2013 and 2014, it is absolutely outrageous that the amount of travel expenses reimbursement and allowances paid to beneficiaries exceeds eur 17.3 million. we also regret the sharp increase in staff mission expenses, which rose by 14.5% in 2014. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014. weaknesses were identified in four cases out of the 15 procurement procedures it examined. although the 2014 eesc budget was 1.19% lower than the 2013 annual budget, it is nevertheless of concern that the total amount of travel expenses reimbursement and allowances paid to eesc beneficiaries was eur 17 374 864. the increase in staff mission expenses from eur 338 366 in 2013 to eur 387 481 in 2014 (an increase of 14,5%) is also regrettable. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it is worrying that the total amount of travel expenses and allowances paid to eesc beneficiaries was eur 17 374 864. the increase in staff mission expenses from eur 338 366 in 2013 to eur 387 481 in 2014 (an increase of 14,5%) is also regrettable.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014. weaknesses were identified in four cases out of the 15 procurement procedures it examined. although the 2014 eesc budget was 1.19% lower than the 2013 annual budget, it is nevertheless of concern that the total amount of travel expenses reimbursement and allowances paid to eesc beneficiaries was eur 17 374 864. it is also regrettable that the increase in staff mission expenses has increased by 14.5%. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european economic and social committee. weaknesses were identified in four of the 15 procurement procedures examined. although the eesc's 2014 budget was eur 128 559 380 (compared to eur 130 104 400 in 2013), a decrease of 1.19% compared to the 2013 annual budget, it is nevertheless of concern that the total amount of travel expenses reimbursement and allowances paid to eesc beneficiaries was eur 17 374 864. the increase in staff mission expenses from eur 338 366 in 2013 to eur 387 481 in 2014 (an increase of 14.5%) is also regrettable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for a discharge on the implementation of the budget despite the fact that it highlights many shortcomings in procurement procedures.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report does indeed seek to give a discharge, and thus to relieve the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee of his responsibility for the implementation of the committee's 2014 budget. however, accepting this discharge would be tantamount to accepting the increase in the staff mission expenses between 2013 and 2014, or the increase in the amount of reimbursement of travel expenses and allowances paid to the same persons. i cannot accept these deviations.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. this report calls for the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the institution. we welcome a budget that is down (-1.19% in 2013). nevertheless, we are concerned about unexplained and obviously excessive expenses, such as travel expenses or missions and various allowances. in addition, procurement procedures are not always transparent.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european economic and social committee for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ while the eesc's budget decreased from 2013 to 2014, the increase in staff missions expenses by 14% is unlikely, and the allowances paid to beneficiaries are no less so. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ weaknesses were identified in four cases out of the 15 procurement procedures examined. it is of concern that the total amount of travel expenses reimbursements and allowances paid to eesc beneficiaries was eur 17 374 864. the increase in staff mission expenses from eur 338 366 in 2013 to eur 387 481 in 2014 (an increase of 14,5%) is also regrettable. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the economic and social committee of the european union. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the economic and social committee, the court of auditors considers that the overall payments for the year ended 31 december 2014 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, as a whole, free from material error. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for budgetary discharge for the european economic and social council. several weaknesses in public procurement procedures were identified, staff mission expenses increased sharply by 14% and the allowances paid are far too high. i am also in favour of the outright abolition of this costly and useless body. i therefore vote against the text and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because the report is far too conciliatory with the committee of the regions, which has significant management shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the committee of the regions complies with the budgetary rules and standards set by the court of auditors. nevertheless, i believe that improvements in administrative cost reductions are still possible, particularly at the political level. the two institutions, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, are in a position to further develop synergies which will improve productivity in the areas of cooperation at all levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for the committee of the regions to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the eu budget. it is far too sensitive to this committee, which has shown major shortcomings in its management. the committee of the regions' budget has thus decreased compared to 2013, but the objectives of establishing financial regulation standards have not been met. moreover, while the budget is mainly administrative, too much of it is still used for the depreciation of mission expenses (787 in 2014, which is high). the audit of the institution revealed shortcomings in the procurement systems. despite its harsh tone, the report is content to make findings and does not fundamentally question the management of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the committee had an approved budget of eur 87.600.000 (eur 87.373.000 in 2013), of which eur 86.300.000 was for commitment appropriations. the report nevertheless highlights the increase in the number of exception reports: 87 financial exceptions and three administrative exceptions related to non-compliance with internal procedures. this increase is worrying and transparency must be made. however, i think that the court of auditors' remarks that 'no significant deficiencies were found' in the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the committee are not genuinely sincere and that the report seems far too complacent because of the many remarks made about the management of the committee. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ despite its harsh tone, the report is content with observations, sometimes general, and does not fundamentally challenge the management of the committee of the regions. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ although highly critical of the committee of the regions, this report nevertheless calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. although the committee of the regions' budget has been reduced compared to 2013, too much of it is still used for the reduction of mission expenses. the audit also revealed shortcomings in procurement systems. the rapporteur therefore calls for more information on internal insurance systems. although the report recommends the adoption of additional management rules, their implementation seems to be lagging behind. since this report merely makes a statement without fundamentally challenging the management of the committee of the regions, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report is rather critical without being alarmist, taking in budgetary and financial aspects, administrative expenditure, resource management, contracts, public procurement rules and the evolution of the status of conflicts of interest or whistleblowers. it is content to make observations, sometimes general ones, and does not fundamentally question the management of the committee of the regions. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report is content with observations, sometimes general, and does not fundamentally challenge the management of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ despite its harsh tone, the report is content with observations, sometimes general, and does not fundamentally challenge the management of the committee of the regions. naturally, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the secretary-general of the committee of the regions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the committee of the regions. the committee of the regions' budget decreased compared to 2013 to eur 87.6 million, which is positive; however, the objectives of internal implementation of financial regulatory standards have not been achieved. moreover, while the budget is mainly administrative, too much of it is still used for the depreciation of mission expenses (787 in 2014, which is high). the audit of the institution revealed shortcomings in the procurement systems. the report calls for more information on internal assurance systems (to prevent fraud). the it projects to improve the efficiency of the functioning of the committee of the regions are also problematic and do not seem to be justified, and an impact analysis of their added value is also requested for june 2016. as regards the overall performance of the committee, the management of its business plan and its strategic management, the report requires that the measures recommended by the court of auditors' audit be implemented by the end of june 2016. despite its harsh tone, the report is content with observations, sometimes general, and does not fundamentally question the management of this useless institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for discharge on the implementation of the budget despite obvious weaknesses (management of resources, public procurement rules, whistleblower statutes). once again, this is a report that merely makes findings without calling into question the management of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ the text is in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget. it is balanced between the positive aspects and the points for improvement in the implementation of the committee of the regions budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the report also proposes a set of measures and hopes to see them implemented by the end of june 2016. although the text seems to be a harsh statement and imposes requirements on the committee, it does not call into question its management. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. i welcome the severe accusation against the committee of the regions. despite budget cuts, some costs, such as mission reductions, remain excessive. other expenditure, particularly on the computer system, does not seem justified. the public procurement system lacks transparency. finally, the court of auditors calls for financial regulation rules, particularly as regards the management of whistleblowers. one whistleblower case in 2003 was not dealt with diligently. it should be noted that the court of auditors had issued recommendations on the functioning of the committee of the regions. the discharge report therefore insists on their application by the end of june 2016.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the committee of the regions for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions' major shortcomings are not well addressed in this report. the tone of the text, which was marked by firmness, did not suggest such a moderation in the examination of the committee's management. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ despite its harsh tone, the report is content with observations, sometimes general, and does not fundamentally challenge the management of the committee of the regions. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. despite its harsh tone, the report is content to make observations, sometimes general, and does not fundamentally question the management of the committee of the regions. however, this management has serious shortcomings. in these circumstances, and especially since the regional level is not relevant for france, i am voting against the discharge and the report.
in writing. ‒ the institution's audit revealed shortcomings in the procurement systems. the report is quite critical without being alarmist. despite its harsh tone, it is content to make observations, sometimes general ones, and does not fundamentally question the management of the committee of the regions. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because the report is too conciliatory and does not call into question a management which deserves to be so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european external action service (eeas) has made a lot of progress in correcting the errors detected in previous discharges. however, the eeas should establish a shared services centre in order to achieve economies of scale in logistics, administration and procurement for csdp missions and eusrs and their offices.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge to be given to the european external action service for the implementation of the union budget. the question here is not whether this department, which is a cross-functional department within the commission and whose relative autonomy is questionable, is justified, but how it is managed, since the use of the eeas budgets (eur 518.6 million) is subject to caution. while the report does not call into question the overall management of the eeas, it does stress the need for the eeas to simplify its management rules and clarify its organisation (which is complex and rich in 'high-levels'). many negative aspects are addressed, without seriously challenging the management of the eeas; i therefore voted against this report, which is too suggestive and too unconstraining.
in writing. ‒ for the financial year 2014, the final budget of the eeas headquarters was eur 518 600 000, an increase of 1,9% compared to the previous financial year. the report before us is too suggestive and unconstraining. it does not call into question the existence and management of the eeas and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses many negative aspects without seriously challenging the management of the eeas. the report again recommends increased cooperation between the union and the member states in their foreign policy, using the pretext of lower costs as a justification. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european external action service for the implementation of its budget. their budget is split between the headquarters, €212.9 million, and the delegations, €305.7 million. however, it appears that many delegations do not have the necessary skills to ensure transparent budget management. the union's financial rules are so complex in terms of procedure that they are difficult for delegations to apply. the report also stresses the need to remind delegation heads of the rules on the use of the structural funds. finally, the report points to the rules for allocating posts which do not at present ensure a balance between the staff of the member states and those of the institutions. while many negative aspects are addressed in the text, the rapporteur never calls into question the management of the eeas. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report indicates that the european external action service (eeas) has implemented its budget without major errors being detected. the overall error rate for the administrative budget was estimated at 0.5%. the court of auditors found no significant deficiencies in the selected systems and in the annual activity report for the year 2014. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 in respect of the european external action service (eeas).
in writing. ‒ the report addresses many negative aspects, but does not seriously challenge the management of the eeas. despite some pertinent remarks, the report suggests that further integration between the services of the member states and the union in general (agencies, commission, parliament) should be pursued. it recommends, in particular, that cooperation between the union and the states in their foreign policy be increased, under the pretext of lowering costs. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: no serious challenge to the management of the eeas.
in writing. ‒ many negative aspects are addressed, without seriously challenging the management of the eeas. despite some specific remarks, the report suggests that the services should be further integrated with the member states and the union in general (agencies, commission, parliament). that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european external action service. the use of the eeas budgets (eur 518.6 million) is subject to caution. the budget for the headquarters (eur 212.9 million) and the delegations (eur 305.7 million) is split evenly. many delegations do not have the necessary powers to ensure transparent budget management, or at least do not have clear rules and procedures for awarding contracts, such as the distribution of grants to third parties (ngos, associations, etc.). the problem of evaluating the policies pursued by the eeas abroad is raised, as is the lack of reports to inform about progress, shortcomings or problems encountered: 8 delegations were unable to obtain a statement of assurance from the court of auditors for these reasons. many negative aspects are addressed, but without fundamentally challenging the management of the eeas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the report deplores the lack of transparency in the management and the absence of reports sent to the union to inform the results of these actions, which is not surprising given the highly questionable quasi-autonomy of the eeas. the report also recommends increased cooperation between the union and the member states in their foreign policy, in particular through closer coordination between the consular services of the union and those of the member states, as well as with their embassies. but diplomacy is a royal prerogative of the member states, and the eu must not interfere in it under any circumstances.
in writing. ‒ the european external action service (eeas) is responsible for strengthening the coherence and effectiveness of the eu's foreign policy and for increasing europe's influence in the world. from a financial point of view, it divides its budget between its headquarters and its delegations. the difficulties arise at this level, owing to the complexity of european rules, budgetary procedures and organisation. budget processing is particularly complex for delegations which regularly have to deal with emergency situations without an appropriate budgetary framework. the report also stresses once again the need for transparency on the part of the esa departments and for more rigorous management. however, although well-intentioned, the report backs down on the simple proposal to integrate services better with the member states and the european union, which i oppose. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. it is difficult to support the discharge, because the report raises serious reservations about the management of the eeas, without calling into question the merits of its action. the lack of transparency in budgetary management is particularly noteworthy. this is shared between the headquarters and several delegations. the latter are not subject to any specific obligations as regards the award of contracts or the granting of subsidies. the personnel costs are considerable, considering the presence of many senior officials. the follow-up of the eeas's policies is not satisfactory. the eeas therefore only reports on a limited number of cases. once again, the court of auditors' report highlights a number of negative aspects. no serious conclusions were drawn.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european external action service for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ this discharge report is too unconstraining for the eeas, whose legitimacy and competence are not examined. his suggestive remarks are insufficient. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ many negative aspects are addressed, without seriously challenging the management of the eeas. despite some specific remarks, the report suggests that the services should be further integrated with the member states and the union in general (agencies, commission, parliament). i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european external action service. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the eeas, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ many delegations do not have, if not the necessary powers to ensure transparent budget management, at least clear rules and procedures in terms of contracting and distribution of grants to third parties (ngos, associations, etc.). in addition, the union's financial rules are so complex in terms of procedures that they can be difficult for delegations to apply, as they have to deal with certain emergency situations. in short, this service, which should not exist in principle, operates in a very obscure and inefficient way. i therefore naturally vote against the report and the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european external action service (eeas) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because of the cost of not concentrating on one workplace, which leads to unnecessary expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the discharge for the european ombudsman; he explains that the court of auditors observes that no significant deficiencies were identified in the audit of procurement-related matters for the european ombudsman. however, it called on the ombudsman to respect the principle of transparency, in particular as regards the allocation of clear powers, and deplored the high number of missions carried out by the ombudsman's staff between brussels and strasbourg, at a cost of eur 126 000, plus a cost of around eur 60 000 for lost working time during travel. it shows that savings of eur 195 000 could be achieved if the institution had only one seat. however, the report fails to show the will to merge the seat into one place, which is why i did not vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this discharge for the european ombudsman highlights the lack of transparency in the institution's internal organisation. several formulations were made in this report, including regular information on the results of own-initiative inquiries carried out in accordance with the "cap on 2019" strategy, the reduction in the number of missions between brussels and strasbourg and an increased use of videoconferencing, and a request to the ombudsman to provide a full description of the amounts linked to the increase in commitments in 2014 for the members of the institution. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors notes that no significant deficiencies were identified in the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the european ombudsman. however, it is required to comply with the principle of transparency, in particular as regards the allocation of clear responsibilities, and to ensure that the organisation chart published on its website reflects reality. we also deplore the high number of missions carried out by the ombudsman's staff between brussels and strasbourg. finally, eur 195 000 could be saved if the institution had only one seat. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman acts as a liaison between citizens and the european institutions. its mission is to strengthen the rights of european citizens by investigating cases of maladministration in the european institutions and bodies. it is therefore a key element of democratic control within the european union. since 2013, the post of european ombudsman has been held by emily o'reilly. i voted in favour of the decision to grant the european ombudsman discharge for the financial year 2014 and i welcome the work of the ombudsman. however, i voted against paragraph 22 of the resolution which states that active promotion of the centralisation of the seat of the european parliament is desirable. i would remind you that the european parliament is based in strasbourg and that there is no need to change the treaties in this respect.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the high number of missions carried out by the ombudsman's staff between brussels and strasbourg, i.e. 212 in total, represents a cost of eur 126 000, to which is added some eur 60 000 for lost working time during the journeys. in addition, savings of eur 195 000 could be achieved if the institution had only one seat. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ votes against: lack of transparency in the institution's internal organisation.
in writing. ‒ while it is welcome that the ratio of closed investigations to ongoing investigations at the end of the previous financial year was the highest ever, it is regrettable that the ombudsman's staff carried out a large number of missions between brussels and strasbourg for excessive sums. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european ombudsman. the report calls in particular on the ombudsman to comply with the principle of transparency, in particular with regard to the recognition and allocation of clear powers, and to ensure that the website is regularly updated and accurately reflects the institution's organisational structure. it is also regrettable that the ombudsman's staff carried out a large number of missions between brussels and strasbourg, 212 in total, at a cost of eur 126 000, plus a cost of around eur 60 000 for lost working time during the journeys. in addition, savings of eur 195 000 could be achieved if the institution had only one seat.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the ombudsman to comply with the principle of transparency, in particular with regard to the recognition and allocation of clear powers. the report also notes that eur 195 000 could be saved if the institution had only one seat.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman is the defender of european citizens or businesses against maladministration by the institutions or bodies of the european union. the report shall assess the use of its 2014 budget. as a result, his analysis found a high number of missions carried out by the ombudsman's staff and a costly inconsistency since the institution has two seats (brussels and strasbourg). this could save money and relieve the european taxpayer. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the european ombudsman's productivity is to be welcomed, having closed a record number of inquiries in 2014. however, the amount of mission expenses is considerable: 212 missions involved travel between brussels and strasbourg, at a total cost of eur 126 000. considerable savings could also be made by introducing a single seat for the ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european ombudsman's budget for 2014. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. finally, under the guise of advocating greater centrality and some savings in the cost of the candlestick, the resolution accompanying the discharge defends the option of a single seat in brussels. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman is to be credited for the growing number of inquiries. but it would cost the union less if it had a single seat. unfortunately, the report does not emphasize this point. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while it is welcome that the ratio of closed to ongoing inquiries at the end of the previous financial year was the highest ever achieved, it is regrettable that the ombudsman's staff carried out a high number of missions between brussels and strasbourg, namely 212 in total, at a cost of eur 126 000, plus a cost of around eur 60 000 for lost working time on the move. in addition, savings of eur 195 000 could be achieved if the institution had only one seat. i am aware of the lack of will on these issues, and i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ the cost of running the ombudsman is far too high and not transparent enough. i therefore vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the ombudsman's budget for 2014. the ombudsman, emily o'reilly, opened 325 inquiries in 2014 based on complaints. the ombudsman's task is to investigate complaints about maladministration in the work of the european institutions. it should also be noted that 80% of the ombudsman's recommendations are followed and implemented by the eu institutions. the european ombudsman has a key role to play in ensuring that fundamental rights and the rule of law are respected in the work of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of the personal data package on 14 april, the european data protection supervisor will have wider powers. it is essential to provide the institution with adequate funding to enable it to perform its new functions properly. the protection of our citizens' personal data is a priority for the years to come.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because the report is clearly too consensual when many criticisms should have been made, particularly with regard to conflicts of interest and procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies many instances of dysfunction in the implementation of the eu budget for the european data protection supervisor. as regards the use of this budget line, there has been a decrease in the amounts spent on translation, publications and the activities of the controller. at the same time, the appropriations allocated to missions, travel and other ancillary expenditure of its members and staff remained unchanged in 2014. in particular, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. similarly, very little information is available on the procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors. the commission notes that the contract award decision was published on the controller's website for 2014. these facts have obliged me to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the controller had a total budget of eur 8 012 953 (eur 7 661 409 in 2013) and the overall budget implementation rate was 92% (compared to 84,7% in 2013). meps regret that the controller did not disclose all available information on its policy on conflicts of interest or in terms of public procurement procedures, making the report too complacent in my view. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies many instances of malfunction. the budget is 'free of any significant error', but it does not appear to be in any way a matter of sound management of public funds. from the perspective of transparency, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. similarly, very little information is available on the procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ despite the absence of any significant error in the management of the european controller, this report highlights many malfunctions. firstly, the budget lines devoted to translation, publications and the activities of the controller were reduced, while the appropriations allocated to missions and travel remained unchanged in 2014. it is also regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. similarly, very little information is available on procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies many malfunctions. this budget does not seem to be in any way related to the sound management of public funds. from a sound management point of view, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. the annual activity report (aar) does not contain any clear and binding provisions on slippers, contrary to the requirement laid down in article 16 of the staff regulations. finally, the controller's real estate policy was not annexed to its aar. from the perspective of transparency, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. similarly, very little information is available on the procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors. the commission notes that the contract award decision was published on the controller's website for 2014. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies many instances of malfunction. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. as for the usefulness of this budgetary item, there is a decrease in the budgetary items devoted to translation, publications and the activities of the controller. at the same time, the appropriations allocated to missions, travel and other ancillary expenditure of its members and staff remained unchanged in 2014. from a sound management point of view, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. the annual activity report (aar) does not contain any clear and binding provisions on 'panting', contrary to what is required by article 16 of the staff regulations. finally, the controller's real estate policy was not annexed to its aar. these facts have obliged me to vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the european data protection supervisor (edps) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european data protection supervisor. the report notes many instances of malfunction. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the appropriations allocated to missions, travel and other ancillary expenditure of its members and staff remained unchanged in 2014. from a management point of view, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. the annual activity report does not contain any clear and binding provisions on 'shoe-blowing', contrary to the requirement in article 16 of the staff regulations. finally, the controller's real estate policy was not annexed to its aar. from the perspective of transparency, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. similarly, very little information is available on the procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives a discharge on the general implementation of the budget, even though it identifies many instances of dysfunction. furthermore, it is regrettable that the controller has not provided full information on its conflict of interest policy and the rules governing procurement procedures and contractor selection criteria.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies many malfunctions in the controller's services. the commission has also decided to reduce the number of staff in the translation departments. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the sampled exporting producers. in addition to this inconsistency, a lack of transparency is noted as the controller did not give the rapporteur all the information at its disposal (in particular on its policy on conflicts of interest). i voted against this report because it was truncated.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the rapporteur notes that the budget of the controller is 'free of any significant errors'. it is regrettable that not all available information on conflicts of interest and real estate policy was communicated. there is little information available on procurement procedures. as regards expenditure, the reduction in translation costs is welcomed. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in the form of a capital increase of eur [...] million.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european data protection supervisor for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the text is not sufficiently critical in view of the known problems. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the controller has not provided all the information available on its conflict of interest policy. the annual activity report (aar) does not contain any clear and binding provisions on 'panting', contrary to what is required by article 16 of the staff regulations. finally, the controller's real estate policy was not annexed to its aar. from the perspective of transparency, it is regrettable that the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. similarly, very little information is available on the procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors. the commission notes that the contract award decision was published on the controller's website for 2014. for these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the controller has not disclosed all available information on its conflict of interest policy. the annual activity report (aar) does not contain any clear and binding provisions on 'panting', contrary to what is required by article 16 of the staff regulations. similarly, very little information is available on the procurement procedures and the criteria for selecting contractors. finally, the controller's real estate policy was not annexed to its aar. in these circumstances, i am against the discharge and against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor for 2014. the role of the controller is to ensure that the union institutions and bodies respect the right of individuals to the protection of their private life when processing personal data. in the course of their work, eu institutions and bodies sometimes have to process personal information provided by citizens in electronic, written or visual form. the role of the european data protection supervisor is therefore crucial to ensure that citizens' right to the protection of their personal data is respected.
in writing. - i voted against the report which was too benign and too approximate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union agencies have made a big step forward. they have followed the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing services, which allows economies of scale. i also welcome the fact that 80% of the agencies are complying with the anti-fraud strategy and the data protection strategy.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget in respect of the performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies. it recalls that the agencies' budget amounted to some eur 1.9 billion in 2014, or 1.4% of the general budget of the union, and that they employ 6 578 permanent staff, in addition to 3 200 contract staff. while the report highlights more balanced management, greater efficiency and accountability and greater coherence in their governance, it also points to a certain weakness in the establishment of whistleblowing procedures by some agencies and suggests better enforcement of public procurement rules. while the report is critical of some of the agencies, it often praises the way they work, without focusing on their inefficiency or questioning their usefulness. that is why i voted against this overly complacent report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this 2014 discharge on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies because it is in reality a benevolent report to the agencies, not very novel and far too vague and general. for the financial year 2014, the budget of the agencies amounted to some eur 1,9 billion, representing a decrease of 5% compared to 2013 and 1,4% of the general budget of the union. about 63% (eur 1.2 billion) is financed by the union. there is still work to be done, in particular on the protection of whistleblowers, better public access to documents and stricter rules on conflicts of interest, the need for agencies to adopt headquarters agreements and to improve their procurement procedures and practices and the protection of their financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european agencies for the implementation of their budgets. it emphasises balanced management and greater coherence in their governance. it also noted that 80% of decentralised agencies had an anti-fraud strategy and welcomed the good consideration of the management of conflicts of interest. nevertheless, it is an aberration that some agencies still have two seats at a time when it is essential to rationalize public expenditure in order to achieve budgetary savings. it would also be useful to merge some agencies whose usefulness has yet to be demonstrated. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the 2014 budget. while it appears to be critical on some points, the report often praises the good functioning of the agencies, does not dwell on their inefficiency and instead emphasises interactions with the commission and other institutions, without questioning their usefulness. the report is not flattering, but surprisingly sympathetic to the way the agencies operate, although we know that they are not always reliable. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report does not dwell on their inefficiency, but rather emphasises interactions with the commission and other institutions, without also questioning their usefulness.
in writing. ‒ i will only give an explanation of vote to explain my rejection of the discharge for the management of the budgets of the 33 agencies 33! which the european union has set itself. for the years, the relationships and the agencies pass, and for the latter multiply, and resemble each other. the same dysfunctions are always pointed out: abnormal deferrals of appropriations, problems in the award of public contracts, poor staff management and conflicts of interest (sometimes, however, flagrant as in the agency for medicines or the one in charge of food safety), random performance, mention of weaknesses in the fight against corruption that leaves alarming doubts about the integrity of staff ... and almost always the granting of the quitus and of texts that are not critical in view of the problems raised, without calling into question the usefulness of the said agencies, the existence of which, for many of them, serves only to provide each european city with some importance of the official seat of a european gadget. it's time to stop charging.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives discharge to the european union agencies for the implementation of their budget for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control.
in writing. ‒ while the report is critical on some points, it often praises the good functioning of the agencies, does not dwell on their inefficiency, but instead emphasises interactions with the commission and other institutions, without questioning their usefulness. the report is rather flattering, surprisingly sympathetic to the way the agencies operate... i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control. while it appears to be critical on some points, the report often praises the good functioning of the agencies, does not dwell on their inefficiency, but instead emphasises interactions with the commission and other institutions, without questioning their usefulness. instead, it calls on agencies to improve their communication strategies to raise awareness and to raise public awareness through social media, as if this would change anything about the basic problem of their usefulness. the report is rather flattering, but surprisingly sympathetic to the way the agencies operate. when you know the risks, it's surprising.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because its complacency leads it to recommend the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. indeed, the report often praises the good functioning of the agencies without focusing on their inefficiency. on the contrary, it emphasizes interactions with the commission and other institutions, without questioning their usefulness.
in writing. - i voted against this report. he proposed that discharge be given to the eu agencies for the implementation of their budgets. to convince parliament of this, it gives a favourable assessment of the agencies' operation. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the european union's external relations. 80% of them have an anti-fraud department and 90% have internal policies on conflicts of interest. these indicators certainly demonstrate the good management of eu agencies. however, the rapporteur omits a fundamental problem, which is the uselessness and the desirability of such structures.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the report welcomes the good management of the agencies' money, including a policy of transparency in public procurement and conflicts of interest. the report encourages agencies to communicate more with the public about their activities. this positive observation contrasts with the apparent inefficiency of the agencies' functioning. the latter amount to eur 1.9 billion, or 1.4% of the general budget in 2014, and employ some 6 578 permanent and temporary staff.
in writing. the agencies in question here benefit from a report which is to their credit. it is true that this report cultivates the art of the form to evade the substance. while he may seem to be balanced, he is often surprisingly flattering and superficial in his study. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european union agencies for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ while the report is critical on some points, it often praises the good functioning of the agencies, does not dwell on their inefficiency, but instead emphasises interactions with the commission and other institutions, without questioning their usefulness. the report is rather flattering, but surprisingly sympathetic to the way the agencies operate. when you know the risks, it's surprising. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european union agencies, whose total budget was eur 1.9 billion, a decrease of 5% compared to the previous year, and which employ 6578 staff. while the report highlights progress, in particular in the implementation of the common approach programme on decentralised agencies, it criticises the high level of cancellation of appropriations carried over from previous years which had been unjustifiably committed.
in writing. ‒ while the report is critical on some points, it often praises the good functioning of the agencies, does not dwell on their inefficiency, but instead emphasises interactions with the commission and other institutions, without questioning their usefulness. the report is rather flattering, but surprisingly sympathetic to the way the agencies operate. when you know the risks, it's surprising. i am more realistic than the rapporteur and therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with cross-cutting issues related to the financial management and control of the european agencies. the text stresses the reliability of the accounts and the need for cooperation between the various eu agencies. finding synergies to improve the effectiveness of public action at european level is essential.
in writing. ‒ while the report is critical on some points, it often praises the good functioning of the agencies, does not dwell on their inefficiency, but instead emphasises interactions with the commission and other institutions, without questioning their usefulness. the report is rather flattering, but surprisingly sympathetic to the way the agencies operate. when you know the risks, it's surprising. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for a report which was too favourable in view of the problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ once again, i could not vote for this text, which is not critical enough in view of the problems identified: the final budget is up by 8.80% compared to 2013, while the latter depends exclusively on the eu budget, of which 41% of the total of these appropriations were allocated to administrative expenditure. if i agree with the rapporteur that 'despite the complexity and multiannual nature of the implementation of this regulation, the high proportion of carryovers and prefinancing payments violates the budgetary principle of annuality', i regret that this remark is not followed up by any concrete recommendation and is therefore condemned to be left unanswered.
in writing. ‒ this discharge concerns the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators with a final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 of eur 10.880.000, which represents an increase of 8.8% compared to 2013. the agency's entire budget is drawn from the eu budget. i note in this discharge a high proportion of carryovers and prefinancing payments which thus violate the principle of budgetary annuality. the general text is not sufficiently critical in view of the problems identified and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this text. at a time when budgetary savings are essential, the 2014 budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is increasing by 8,8% compared to 2013. the report also states that the high proportion of carryovers and prefinancing payments is contrary to the principle of budgetary annuality. i note that the carryovers for appropriations for administrative expenditure amount to 41% of these appropriations. commitment appropriations for operating costs rose to 62%. although this report gives a realistic assessment of the management of the agency, it does not call into question the budgetary diversion of funds.
in writing. ‒ the final budget is up by 8.80% compared to 2013, while the latter depends exclusively on the eu budget. it should be noted that carryovers relating to appropriations for administrative expenditure for title ii reached eur 980 000, or 41% of the total of these appropriations. despite the multiannual nature of some budgets, this rate seems particularly high. this is even more evident in the case of the commitment appropriations for operating costs, as 62% were carried over to 2015. the report stresses that 'despite the complexity and multiannual nature of the implementation of this regulation, the high proportion of carryovers and prefinancing payments violates the budgetary principle of annuality', but this is a mere remark which is not capable of calling into question the substantive budgetary irregularities. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the commission's internal audit service (ias) identified areas for improvement in an audit of the framework guidelines for the years 2013 to 2015. the sai made one recommendation as 'very important' and five recommendations as 'important'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the final budget is up by 8.80% compared to 2013, while the latter depends exclusively on the eu budget. it should be noted that carryovers relating to appropriations for administrative expenditure for title ii reached eur 980 000, or 41% of the total of these appropriations. despite the multiannual nature of some budgets, this rate seems particularly high. this is even more evident in the case of the operating expenditure commitment appropriations, as 62% were carried over to 2015. i agree with the report that 'despite the complexity and multiannual nature of the implementation of this regulation, the high proportion of carryovers and pre-financing payments breaches the budgetary principle of annuality'; but this is not enough to call into question the budgetary diversion of funds. in this regard, the commission's internal audit service (ias) identified areas for improvement in an audit of the framework guidelines for the years 2013 to 2015. the sai made one recommendation as 'very important' and five recommendations as 'important'. these comments led to a vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). the final budget is 8.80% higher than the 2013 budget, which depends exclusively on the eu budget. it should be noted that carryovers relating to appropriations for administrative expenditure for title ii reached eur 980 000, or 41% of the total of these appropriations. despite the multiannual nature of some budgets, this rate seems particularly high. this is even more evident in the case of the operating expenditure commitment appropriations, as 62% were carried over to 2015. i agree with the report that 'despite the complexity and multiannual nature of the implementation of this regulation, the high proportion of carryovers and pre-financing payments breaches the budgetary principle of annuality'. this is not enough to call into question the budgetary misuse of the funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report for two reasons. on the one hand, the final budget is 8.80% higher than in 2013, while the latter depends exclusively on the eu budget. this is also due to the carry-overs relating to appropriations for administrative expenditure, which account for 41% of the total.
in writing. ‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. it assists national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and, where necessary, coordinates their action. the budget allocated to it each year for its operation shall be subject to an annual evaluation by the court of auditors. the text reports on the evaluation of the 2014 budget. he lists a number of remarks such as the increase in the budget of 8.80% compared to 2013. however, this text does not call into question the budgetary diversions of funds observed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the total budget is up 8.80% compared to 2013. 41% of expenditure is administrative expenditure - a particularly high rate. the frequency of carryovers of operating costs is noted - which is contrary to the principle of budgetary annuality.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is not critical enough in view of the difficulties identified and does not allow us to get an idea of the legitimacy of this agency. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses that 'despite the complexity and multiannual nature of the implementation of this regulation, the high proportion of carry-overs and pre-financing payments breaches the budgetary principle of annuality'; but this is not enough to call into question the budgetary diversion of funds. in this regard, the commission's internal audit service (ias) identified areas for improvement in an audit of the framework guidelines for the years 2013 to 2015. the sai made one recommendation as 'very important' and five recommendations as 'important'. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of acer, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses that 'despite the complexity and multiannual nature of the implementation of this regulation, the high proportion of carry-overs and pre-financing payments breaches the budgetary principle of annuality.' but this is not enough to call into question the budgetary diversion of funds. in this regard, the commission's internal audit service (ias) identified areas for improvement in an audit of the framework guidelines for the years 2013 to 2015. the sai made one recommendation as 'very important' and five recommendations as 'important'. the report is far too uncritical, despite the serious problems it raises, so i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge on the grounds that the report was too vague.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications on the implementation of its budget; i voted against this little detailed report, which does not give an idea of the actual usefulness of the agency, despite a budget of €4.162 million for the 2014 financial year, and even welcomes some expenses of dubious usefulness, such as the choice of a "more user-friendly" internet communication, with the financing of a new website and the development of a youtube channel whose regular updating should consume time to the detriment of the office's own activity.
in writing. ‒ this report is a discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the final budget of the office for the financial year 2014 was eur 4 162 874, representing an increase of 17% compared to 2013. the budget implementation rate was 97,91%, representing an increase of 8,36% compared to the 2012 financial year. i also note that the execution rate of payment appropriations was 75.66%, down by 0.92% compared to the financial year 2013. however, the report is still not very detailed and this does not allow me to judge the real usefulness of the agency, so i have decided to vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. the report is generally positive in relation to the management of the agency. however, it can be seen that the procedures for conflicts of interest should be improved. in addition, the report does not obscure certain unnecessary expenditure, including the financing of a new website, the updating of which would be time-consuming to the detriment of the office's primary activity. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge to be given to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the report stresses that if conflicts of interest procedures are in place, they should be improved. the agencies are required to be exemplary. worse, the report praises the agency for unnecessary expenses such as choosing a more user-friendly internet communication, funding a new website and developing a youtube channel whose regular updating risks diverting the agency from its activity. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report stresses that if conflict of interest procedures have been implemented, they probably deserve to be improved.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014 was eur 4,162 million. the court has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts are reliable and notes that the commitments made during the previous year have been reasonably respected. the reimbursement processes for experts working for the office would have been improved. the report is therefore generally positive. however, it stresses that if conflict of interest procedures have been implemented, they would probably merit improvement. since agencies are required to be exemplary, this point is not entirely anecdotal. the report does not condemn the unnecessary expenditure, but rather commends it: the choice of a more user-friendly internet communication, with the financing of a new website and the development of a youtube channel whose regular updating should consume time to the detriment of the office's own activity. it is difficult, and paradoxical, to describe the exact usefulness of the office. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives discharge to the management committee of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). the report stresses that if conflict of interest procedures have been implemented, they would probably merit improvement. since agencies are required to be exemplary, this point is not entirely anecdotal. the report does not condemn the unnecessary expenditure, but rather commends it: the choice of a more user-friendly internet communication, with the financing of a new website and the development of a youtube channel whose regular updating should consume time to the detriment of the office's own activity. it is difficult, and paradoxical, to describe the exact usefulness of the office.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the report calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the report does not condemn them, but rather welcomes the office's very expensive new communication policy. last but not least, the existence of this office in its own right seems superfluous to me.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 discharge for the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) is examined through this report. this eu agency, which provides administrative and professional support to the eu, had a budget of €4.162 million in 2014. despite its reasonable attitude to its accounts and internal operation, berec has been subject to unnecessary expenditure. indeed, part of the budget has been spent on the development of a youtube channel, a new website... moreover, the question of the usefulness of this body arises. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the report welcomes the overall sound management. the procedure for managing conflicts of interest is satisfactory, but it deserves to be improved. finally, the report notes a number of unnecessary expenditure in the field of communication: financing a new website, developing a new youtube channel, etc.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ once again, the report is too general and does not allow us to get an idea of the legitimacy of this agency, nor of its level of integrity. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014 was eur 4.162 million. the court has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts are reliable and notes that the commitments made during the previous year have been reasonably respected. the reimbursement processes for experts working for the office would have been improved. the report is therefore generally positive. however, it stresses that if conflict of interest procedures have been implemented, they would probably merit improvement. since agencies are required to be exemplary, this point is not entirely anecdotal. the report does not condemn the unnecessary expenditure, but rather commends it: the choice of a more user-friendly internet communication, with the financing of a new website and the development of a youtube channel whose regular updating should consume time to the detriment of the office's own activity. it is difficult, and paradoxical, to describe the exact usefulness of the office. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give an opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the centre, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. - the report is far too positive. however, it stresses that if conflict of interest procedures have been implemented, they would probably merit improvement. since agencies are required to be exemplary, this point is not entirely anecdotal. the report does not condemn the unnecessary expenditure, but rather commends it: the choice of a more user-friendly internet communication, with the financing of a new website and the development of a youtube channel whose regular updating should consume time to the detriment of the office's own activity. it is difficult, and paradoxical, to describe the exact usefulness of the office. in these circumstances, i shall vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) in 2014. berec ensures that european legislation is applied in a uniform manner, in order to enable the eu to have an effective single market for electronic communications. it plays a key advisory role as it provides advice, on request and on its own initiative, to the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for a report which was too accommodating in view of the problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt), which provides translation services to eu agencies and bodies across europe. the court of auditors notes several problems in the office's annual accounts: for example, the budget surplus and reserves have risen from eur 37 500 000 to eur 40 400 000. the budget surplus is a recurring phenomenon for the centre, which demonstrates the over-financing of the agency and poor budget planning. finally, the report notes that at the beginning of 2014, five recommendations issued by the commission's internal audit service (ias) remain pending. in view of all these problems, the text is not sufficiently critical, which is why i could not vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the centre's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, representing an increase of 7,81% compared to 2013. the report also highlights that the execution rate of payment appropriations was 71,97%, down 5,71% compared to the 2013 financial year. on the other hand, cash and short-term deposits held by the centre increased from eur 40 million at the end of 2013 to eur 44 million at the end of 2014, thus creating significant budgetary surpluses and reserves. i think that the centre should therefore reduce the prices of its translations even though the price per page for "review" increased by 23% in 2014. several recommendations were made, including recruitment, markets... i voted against this not-quite-critical discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. however, the court of auditors notes several deviations. on the one hand, the execution rate of payment appropriations decreased by five percentage points compared to 2013 to 71,97%. the court also noted that the budget surplus and reserves had increased from eur 37.5 million to eur 40.4 million. the budget surplus is a recurring phenomenon for this centre, which demonstrates the over-financing of the agency and poor budget planning. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors notes that the execution rate of payment appropriations was around 72%, a decrease of 5,7% compared to the financial year 2013. the report also notes that, in view of the court's report, cash deposits and short-term deposits held by the centre increased from eur 40 million to eur 44 million from end-2013 to end-2014. it noted that the budget surplus and reserves had increased from eur 37.5 million to eur 40.4 million, indicating that prices should be reduced. the budget surplus is a recurring phenomenon for the centre, which demonstrates the over-financing of the agency and poor budget planning. finally, the report notes that at the beginning of 2014, five recommendations issued by the commission's internal audit service (ias) remain pending. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report finds that at the beginning of 2014, five recommendations issued by the commission's internal audit service (ias) remain pending.
in writing. ‒ the report notes, inter alia, that in the light of the court's report, cash deposits and short-term deposits held by the centre increased from eur 40 000 000 at the end of 2013 to eur 44 000 000 at the end of 2014; notes that the budget surplus and reserves have increased from eur 37 500 000 to eur 40 400 000, indicating that prices should be reduced. the budget surplus is a recurring phenomenon for the centre, which demonstrates the over-financing of the agency and poor budget planning. i could not but oppose this text from this point of view, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt). the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. however, it does raise a number of problems. the first concerns the fact that the execution rate of payment appropriations was 71,97%, a decrease of 5,71% compared to the financial year 2013. notes that the court of auditors' audit report on the annual accounts of the european centre for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (ecmed) for the financial year 2013 was published in the official journal of the european union on 29 september 2013; notes that the budget surplus and reserves have increased from eur 37 500 000 to eur 40 400 000, indicating that prices should be reduced. other the budget surplus is a recurring phenomenon for the centre, which demonstrates the over-financing of the agency and poor budget planning.
in writing. ‒ the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) enables the european services to work together, using all 24 languages of the union. its budget, which ensures its functioning, has been studied in this report for the year 2014. the latter highlights dysfunctions in budget management. the rapporteur therefore notes that there is no illegality in the operations, but there are a number of points which need to be clarified. for example, the budget surplus of the cot, which shows over-financing by the agency and poor budget planning. despite these imperfections, the text seeks to grant the cor discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i cannot support this proposal, which would be tantamount to relieving the service of these diversions. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union amounts to eur 56 268 041, a significant increase (+ 7,81%) compared to 2013. despite the court of auditors' reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the accounts, the execution rate of payment appropriations stands at 71,97%, down by 5,71% compared to the financial year 2013. the report also notes a recurrent budget surplus for the centre, which demonstrates its over-financing and poor budget planning.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the centre for the translation of the bodies of the european union (cdt) in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ budget surpluses are a recurring phenomenon for the centre, demonstrating the over-funding of the agency and poor budget planning. the report is not critical enough in view of the difficulties noted. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the cor for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, representing an increase of 7.81% compared to 2013. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. however, it does raise a number of problems. the first concerns the fact that the execution rate of payment appropriations was 71,97%, a decrease of 5,71% compared to the 2013 financial year. the report also notes that in the light of the court's report, cash deposits and short-term deposits held by the centre increased from eur 40 000 000 at the end of 2013 to eur 44 000 000 at the end of 2014; notes that the budget surplus and reserves have increased from eur 37 500 000 to eur 40 400 000, indicating that prices should be reduced. the budget surplus is a recurring phenomenon for the centre, which demonstrates the over-financing of the agency and poor budget planning. these factors lead me to vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to give an opinion on the 2014 discharge for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, whose mission is to provide any institution or body of the european union that requests it with the translation services necessary for its activities. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the cdt, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014. the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) provides translation services to eu agencies and bodies across europe and works with other eu translation services. the budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, representing an increase of 7,81% compared to 2013. there are several problems to be noted. the first concerns the fact that the execution rate of payment appropriations was 71,97%, a decrease of 5,71% compared to the 2013 financial year. the budget surplus is also a recurring phenomenon for the centre, which demonstrates the over-financing of the agency and poor budget planning. finally, the report notes that at the beginning of 2014, 5 recommendations issued by the commission's internal audit service (ias) remain pending. for these reasons i am voting against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for a report which was too accommodating in view of the problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of this report which notes that the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 has been reduced by 3.62% compared to 2013, whereas vocational training is or should be at the heart of the eu's concerns. finally, the report suggests that the centre is exploiting vocational training to integrate migrants into the labour market, while the structures in place are failing to meet the needs of the european population.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 was eur 17 275 766, a decrease of 3.62 per cent compared to 2013, even though vocational training should be a priority to boost employment and growth in europe. i also reject the report's desire to integrate migrants into the labour market through vocational training, even though many of our citizens are unable to find jobs or training. the report mentions that cedefop has not duplicated other actors such as the european training foundation (etf), the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) and the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha), which i think is not critical because of the multiplication of agencies, staff and places which de facto creates inevitable duplications. i therefore voted against this uncritical text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop). i also voted against the resolution. firstly, it is an agency whose objective, the development of vocational training, is a competence of the member states. i also object to paragraph 16, which is of the opinion that 'the centre should help member states faced with an increasing influx of refugees to exploit the opportunities offered by vocational training to integrate them into their labour market'. with over 26 million unemployed in all member states, these should be given priority.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is not critical enough in view of the difficulties identified. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this text is clearly not sufficiently critical in view of the problems raised. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european centre for the development of vocational training, which plays an important role in the union's vocational education and training policy. in particular, it launched the first pan-european study on skills (eu-skill). the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of cedefop, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for a report which was too accommodating in view of the problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european police college, which aims to provide training and learning opportunities for law enforcement officers on issues vital to the security of the european union and its citizens. again, the court of auditors notes several problems in the college's accounts, notably the cost of moving to the united kingdom. the text also calls on the college to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, a remark which casts doubt on the integrity of certain practices of the college. the report lacks proposals to correct these multiple problems; it also has a rather positive tone which led me to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ cepol's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 8 575 859, representing an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013. the cancellation rate of committed appropriations carried over from fy2013 amounted to eur 129.828, representing 15% of cepol's budget, and the cost of moving the college from the united kingdom to hungary was estimated at eur 1.006.515. several problems of budgetary management have emerged and in the face of a report that is still not very critical, i have therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the text calls, inter alia, on the college to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, including through systematic and appropriate background checks, and to apply exclusion criteria to exclude companies in cases of conflict of interest. this raises doubts about the integrity of certain practices of the college. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european police college aims to provide training and learning opportunities for law enforcement officers on issues vital to the security of our citizens. this report calls for discharge to be given to the european police college in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. however, the court of auditors notes several shortcomings in the management of the college. on the one hand, the rate of implementation of payment appropriations is down by 6.74 percentage points compared to the previous year and the level of committed appropriations carried over is around eur 1.3 million, or 15% of the total 2014 budget. the college is also urged to apply the exclusion measures in public procurement which allow certain undertakings to be excluded in the event of conflicts of interest. this comment raises serious questions about the integrity of the governing body. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 discharge of the european police college (cepol). the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the college were reliable. furthermore, we can note with satisfaction that the budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 97,40%, which represents an increase of 2,51% compared to 2013 (94,89%).
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014, which aims to provide training and learning opportunities for law enforcement officers on issues vital to the security of the european union and its citizens. the court of auditors notes that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 82,4%, a decrease of 6,74% compared to the previous year (89,14%), and that the level of committed appropriations carried over was high, amounting to eur 1 287 094, representing 15% of the total 2014 budget and an increase of 4% compared to 2013. the report notes that this is a recurring phenomenon for the college. the text raises doubts about the integrity of certain practices of the college in terms of public procurement and conflict of interest management. the control of declarations of financial interests is also recommended. it should be noted that the move of the college to the united kingdom cost over one million euros, of which 43% was financed by the college. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report raises several problems. the first concerns the fact that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 82,40%, a decrease of 6,74% compared to the previous year (89,14%), and that the level of committed appropriations carried over was high, amounting to eur 1 287 094, representing 15% of the total 2014 budget and an increase of 4% compared to 2013. the report notes that this is a recurring phenomenon for the college.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european police college for the financial year 2014. the purpose of the european police college is to provide training and learning opportunities for law enforcement officers on issues vital to the security of the european union and its citizens. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the college were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european police college a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the college's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. however, it does raise a number of problems. the first concerns the fact that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 82,40%, a decrease of 6,74% compared to the previous year (89,14%), and that the level of committed appropriations carried over was high: eur 1 287 094, representing 15% of the total 2014 budget and an increase of 4% compared to 2013. the report notes that this is a recurring phenomenon for the college. the text also calls on the college to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, including by carrying out appropriate systematic background checks, and to apply exclusion criteria to exclude companies in cases of conflict of interest. this raises doubts about the integrity of certain practices of the college.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it calls for the director of the european police college to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2014. however, the report notes some shortcomings, such as the lack of a clear whistleblower policy and rules against 'shoe-shopping'.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the purpose of the european police college is to provide training and learning opportunities for law enforcement officers on issues vital to the security of the european union and its citizens. its budget for the 2014 financial year was eur 8 575 859, representing an increase of 1,48% compared to 2013. the report notes, however, the marked decline in the rate of implementation of payment appropriations compared with the previous year and expresses concern about the procurement procedures, particularly in the area of exclusion. the control of declarations of financial interests is also recommended.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european police college (cepol) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i am embarrassed by the report's demand that measures be taken against the risks of conflict of interest. the report is not critical enough in view of the difficulties noted. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies several problems. the first concerns the fact that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 82,40%, a decrease of 6,74% compared to the previous year (89,14%), and that the level of committed appropriations carried over was high, amounting to eur 1 287 094, representing 15% of the total 2014 budget and an increase of 4% compared to 2013. the report notes that this is a recurring phenomenon for the college. the text also calls on the college to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, including by carrying out appropriate systematic background checks, and to apply exclusion criteria to exclude companies in cases of conflict of interest. this raises doubts about the integrity of certain practices of the college. the control of declarations of financial interests is also recommended. finally, it should be noted that the relocation of the college to the united kingdom cost eur 1 006 515, of which 43% was financed by the college. i am noting the insufficiently critical tone of the report and therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european police college, which has committed itself to reducing its administrative expenditure. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of cepol, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the college for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european police college for the financial year 2014. the text calls on the college to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, including by carrying out an appropriate systematic background check, and to apply exclusion criteria to exclude companies in cases of conflict of interest. this raises doubts about the integrity of certain practices of the college. the control of declarations of financial interests is also recommended. it should be noted that the cost of moving the college to the united kingdom was 1 006 515 euros, of which 43% was financed by the college. in these circumstances, i shall vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) in 2014. cepol is a union agency established in 2005 to provide training and learning opportunities for law enforcement officers on issues vital to the security of the european union and its citizens. the aim is to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and best practice and to contribute to the development of a common european culture of policing.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for a report that was too benevolent in view of the problems it had identified, namely a lack of transparency and an unconsidered increase in its budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the european aviation safety agency (easa) has the main function of being the certification authority for aeronautical products. in addition to the fact that the commission, through this agency, eventually wants to take over most of the functions of the national aviation authorities, in particular in the area of control of the airspace of the member states, the easa is in conflict with other international bodies, such as eurocontrol. the question then arises as to the real purpose of this agency, which is increasingly encroaching on the powers of eurocontrol and is more respectful of the sovereignty of states than the easa. in addition, between 2013 and 2014, the agency's budget increased by 8,47%, with two thirds of this budget coming from private sources, raising the question of independence in the agency's decision-making. the report's lack of determination to highlight these major problems led me to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 131.179.098, an increase of 8,47% compared to 2013. the report also notes that the agency has adopted a confidential safety reporting procedure which addresses information provided by whistleblowers regarding alleged aviation safety failures and irregularities reported by outsiders. there were 66 cases related to this procedure in 2014. finally, the aim of the agency is to eventually allow european control over national aviation authorities and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european aviation safety agency is the certification authority for aeronautical products. in addition to the fact that the commission wants to take over the functions of the national aviation authorities through this agency, the question arises of the usefulness of this agency whose powers increasingly encroach on those of eurocontrol (european agency for the safety of air navigation). i would also point out that the budget of the agency has increased by 8.47% to eur 131 million. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european discharge to the agency for aviation safety for the year 2014. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the operations were legal and regular. the agency assists in the development of the european union strategy to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe. it provides technical expertise to the commission on aviation safety and contributes to the development of the instruments required for the practical implementation of bilateral agreements on aviation safety between member states and third countries.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014. the commission, through this agency, hopes to eventually take over most of the functions of the national aviation authorities, in particular the control of the airspace of the member states through the sesar project and the establishment of functional airspace blocks. when we consider that the international civil aviation organization (un) and eurocontrol also have a role in air safety, we can ask what is the real purpose of this agency, which is increasingly encroaching on eurocontrol's remit. finally, between 2013 and 2014, the agency's budget increased by 8,5% to over eur 131 million. two thirds of this budget is from private sources, which poses a problem of independence in the agency's decision-making. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: between 2013 and 2014, the agency's budget increased by 8.47%, to €131 179 098. two thirds of this budget is from private sources, which poses a problem of independence in the agency's decision-making.
in writing. ‒ in addition to the fact that the commission, through this agency, eventually wants to take over most of the functions of the national aviation authorities, in particular in the area of control of the airspace of the member states via the sesar project and the establishment of 'functional airspace blocks', there is another difficulty with regard to other international organisations. the international civil aviation organization (which is part of the un) and eurocontrol also have air safety functions. the question then arises as to the real purpose of this agency, which is increasingly encroaching on eurocontrol's powers. i am opposed to this text and i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european aviation safety agency (easa) and against the resolution. apart from the fact that the commission, through this agency, wants to eventually take over most of the functions of the national aviation authorities, in particular the control of the airspace of the member states through the sesar project and the establishment of 'functional airspace blocks', there is another difficulty with regard to other international bodies. the international civil aviation organization (which is part of the un) and eurocontrol also have air safety functions. the question then arises as to the real purpose of this agency, which is increasingly encroaching on eurocontrol's powers. in addition, between 2013 and 2014, the agency's budget increased by 8,47% to €131 179 098. two thirds of this budget is from private sources, which poses a problem of independence in the agency's decision-making.
in writing. - i voted against this report. in addition to the fact that the commission, through this agency, eventually wants to control most of the functions of the national aviation authorities, the international civil aviation organization (un) and eurocontrol also have functions relating to aviation safety. the question then arises as to the real purpose of the agency. in addition, between 2013 and 2014, the agency's budget increased by 8,47%. two thirds of this budget is from private sources, which raises a problem of independence in the agency's decision-making. finally, the report gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget.
in writing. ‒ the european aviation safety agency presents itself as the certification authority for aeronautical products. in addition to this mission, it extends its powers to national aviation authorities, and in particular to the control of the airspace of the member states (sesar project). it is clear that this is an implicit way for the commission to give itself more regulatory powers. furthermore, the relevance of the institution can be questioned, as it encroaches on the competences of existing entities such as the international civil aviation organization (linked to the un) and eurocontrol (european agency for safety and air navigation). since i object to the very existence of this agency, i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a decision and against the motion for a resolution on discharge. the european aviation safety agency, which has been operational since 2003, employs some 400 people. it is the certifying authority for aeronautical products. three points pose problems: - the european union's desire to control the powers of national aviation authorities through this agency; - the coexistence of other agencies, including eurocontrol, which currently brings together 41 states and whose competences overlap with those of the european aviation safety agency; - the independence of this agency's decision-making. its budget, up by 8.47%, is financed by private sources to the tune of two thirds.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the commission is attempting in this report to take over most of the national air traffic control functions through the sesar project. in addition, eurocontrol and the international civil aviation organization (un) already exist, which makes it difficult to understand the usefulness of easa. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european aviation safety agency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of easa, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ two thirds of the agency's budget is from private sources, which poses a problem of independence. apart from the fact that the commission eventually wants to take over most of the functions of the national aviation authorities, in particular the control of the airspace of the member states through the sesar project and the establishment of 'functional airspace blocks', there is another difficulty with regard to other international bodies. the international civil aviation organization (which is part of the un) and eurocontrol also have air safety functions. the question then arises as to the real purpose of this agency, which is increasingly encroaching on eurocontrol's powers. eurocontrol currently has 41 member states, including the eu member states. it is an intergovernmental type of organisation based on an international treaty. it makes regulations which are binding on the member states but it does not have the power to impose penalties on them; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the financial year 2014. the european space agency (easa) is facing many challenges, including new missions.
in writing. ‒ the european union budget voted by the parliament is ambitious and realistic in view of the challenges ahead and the limited resources at our disposal. through discharge procedures, we make considerable and repeated efforts to increase the transparency of the european budget for citizens. as regards the european aviation safety agency (easa), whose accounts have been audited by the court of auditors, efforts to make its budget more efficient and transparent and the institution more impartial, notably through the implementation of a comprehensive policy on the prevention and mitigation of conflicts of interest in its code of conduct for staff, are to be welcomed. for all these reasons, i voted to discharge the agency as proposed in the report. however, we deplore the reduction of its budget requested by the commission, whereas the majority of its resources are of private origin, and as the tragic events of 2014 remind us, we can only regret that this agency does not have a larger mandate and strengthened powers in view of the importance of its mission of aviation security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european asylum support office for the implementation of its budget: its mission is to strengthen cooperation between member states in this field and to help them cope with crisis situations. the court of auditors notes several problems in the office's annual accounts: for example, the office carried forward commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 300 000 which did not correspond to any legal commitment. the text also calls for an overall improvement in transparency and awareness of staff in the fight against corruption, which raises doubts about the integrity of the staff. finally, the text calls for the agency's powers to be extended and its budget increased in the face of the refugee crisis, which i think is unacceptable. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the office's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 15 663 975, of which 94% was borne by the union budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. unfortunately, there is a constant pattern of delays in making payments. the bureau also carried forward commitment appropriations of eur 1.3 million which did not correspond to any legal commitment and which constituted an infringement of the provisions of the financial regulation. the discharge also wants to extend the powers and budgets of the bureau, even though i believe that border control and border policy should be a matter for the member states. i therefore decided to vote against it for all these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the text calls, among other things, for the agency's powers to be extended and its budget to be increased in the face of the refugee crisis, which is unacceptable. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in addition to recalling the difficulties in implementing the 2016 budget and the risks of corruption among staff, this report calls on the commission and the council to strengthen the competences and resources of the european asylum support office to welcome migrants on the european continent. because this request is unacceptable, i voted against the discharge and against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european asylum office for the financial year 2014. the aim of the programme is to strengthen cooperation between member states in this field and to help them cope with crisis situations. the court of auditors notes that the office carried forward commitment appropriations corresponding to no legal commitment, amounting to eur 1.3 million. the fact that several categories, in particular those concerning transparency and recruitment procedures, are marked as 'in progress' for the financial years 2012 and 2013 is also problematic. the text also calls for an overall improvement in transparency and staff awareness of the fight against corruption, raising doubts about the integrity of the bureau's members. finally, the text calls for the agency's powers to be extended and its budget to be increased in the face of the refugee crisis, which is unacceptable. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the text calls for the agency's powers to be extended and its budget increased in the face of the refugee crisis, which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the agency's powers to be extended and its budget increased in the face of the refugee crisis, which is simply unacceptable to the enl group as a whole, of which i am a member. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european asylum support office (easo) discharge for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the asylum support office (easo). the resolution notes in particular that the bureau carried forward commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 300 000 which did not correspond to any legal commitment; reminds the bureau that this constitutes an infringement of the provisions of the financial regulation; takes note of the office's decision to correct these irregular carry-overs in the budget management system in 2015, as the financial year 2014 has already been closed; notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european union civil protection mechanism for the financial year 2014 were based on the annual accounts of the european union civil protection mechanism for the financial year 2014; notes that the implementation rate of payment appropriations was 71,33%, down by 15,85% compared to 2013. the resolution also identified a further problem: 1062 payments, or 28.6%, were made after the date set by the financial regulation, which represents an increase of 10.6% compared to 2013. the average delay in payment increased from three days to 24 days between 2013 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, 94% of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) came from the eu budget. as an institution responsible for strengthening cooperation between member states for asylum seekers and helping them to cope with crisis situations, easo should demonstrate exemplary integrity in its functioning and in the management of its budget. however, the report, which focuses on its 2014 financial year (budgetary management), notes many anomalies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. it also regretted the excessive mobility of staff in key posts, which interfered with the performance of specific tasks. nevertheless, despite these anomalies, the text calls for budgetary discharge and an extension of the powers of easo, which is unacceptable. the latter proposal will amplify the migrant crisis instead of solving it. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. this report calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum office for the financial year 2014. the office's budget of eur 15 663 975 in 2014 comes from 94% of the eu budget. the court of auditors identified several problems in the accounts: :-the unexplained carry-over of commitment appropriations for an amount of eur 1 300 000;-the fact that several categories, including 'transparency' and 'recruitment procedures', are marked as 'in progress' for the financial years 2012 and 2013;-the high turnover for key posts. the report's emphasis on staff awareness of anti-corruption does not suggest much about some of the practices prevalent in this office. in any event, the proposal to increase the budget of this office in view of the refugee crisis is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european asylum support office (easo) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is not critical enough in view of the difficulties identified. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 budget discharge for the european asylum support office. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the eba, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the office's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european asylum office for the financial year 2014. however, it does raise a number of problems. the first concerns the fact that the bureau carried forward commitment appropriations amounting to eur 1 300 000 which did not correspond to any legal commitment. the fact that several categories, in particular those concerning transparency and recruitment procedures, are marked as 'in progress' for the financial years 2012 and 2013 is a second problem. the court also notes that the turnover of key staff is very high, which may hinder the achievement of the objectives set. the text also calls for an overall improvement in transparency and staff awareness of the fight against corruption, raising doubts about the integrity of the bureau's members. finally, the text calls for the agency's powers to be extended and its budget to be increased in the face of the refugee crisis, which is unacceptable to us. i therefore vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) in 2014. easo is an agency of the union which plays a key role in the practical development of the common european asylum system. its objective is to strengthen practical cooperation on asylum-related issues, but also to help member states fulfil their european and international obligations and to offer protection to individuals in need. easo supports member states that are on the front line of asylum applications. the union should strengthen the functioning of easo, especially now that the union is facing the largest refugee crisis since the second world war.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for an overall improvement in transparency and staff awareness of the fight against corruption, which raises doubts about the integrity of the members of the bureau. the text also calls for the agency's powers to be extended and its budget increased in the face of the refugee crisis, which is unacceptable to me. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because the work in progress was not even forwarded to the parliamentarians.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ although i am opposed to the establishment of the european banking supervisory mechanism, with taxation being a matter for the sovereignty of the member states, it must be recognised that the european banking authority (eba) serves as a counterweight to the powers of the ecb and mario draghi, despite the limited resources it has to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. however, in particular, the eba has been criticised on several occasions for not having provided the legislator with full details of its ongoing work. it was even found that documents were only sent to the legislator after they had been leaked to the public. in view of these obvious failings, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this discharge concerning the european banking authority because there are still many details about the work in progress that we have not received as european parliamentarians. the final budget of the authority for the financial year 2014 was eur 33 599 863, representing an increase of 29,39% compared to 2013. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i agree with you, but i also regret the lack of transparency on certain aspects of the eba.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the independence of the european central bank, but i am in favour of any supervisory mechanism that limits its scope for intervention. this is the case with the european banking authority. however, as with many european agencies, the functioning of the eba does not offer sufficient safeguards to prevent conflicts of interest. in particular, the report noted that documents of some importance were only transmitted to the european parliament after they had been leaked in certain media. the resources allocated to the eba are not sufficient to counterbalance the all-powerful european central bank. that is why i abstained on the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to give discharge to the european banking authority (eba) for the year 2014. the agency, which was set up in 2010, is essential to maintaining financial stability in the european union. it is part of the european system of financial supervision, the esfs. we need such an agency to ensure the integrity and proper functioning of the european banking sector. the authority has a leading role in the establishment of the banking union, which was an absolute necessity after the 2008 economic and financial crisis, the consequences of which are still visible today. it is responsible for preventing risks and potential vulnerabilities in the european banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the establishment of the european banking supervisory mechanism, while recognising that the european banking authority (eba) can act as a counterweight to the power of the ecb. however, eba did not publish information on senior civil servants who left the service and the absence of a conflict of interest list. it has also been criticised on several occasions for not having provided the legislator with all the details of its ongoing work. it was also found that documents were only sent to the legislator after they had been leaked to the public. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: repeatedly criticized for not having provided the legislator with all the details of its work in progress.
in writing. ‒ although our enl group as a whole is opposed to the establishment of the european banking supervisory mechanism, we must recognise that the european banking authority (eba) is a counterweight to the power of the ecb and mario draghi, despite the limited resources it has for the tasks entrusted to it. however, we can blame the eba for not publishing information on senior civil servants who left the service and for the lack of a list of conflicts of interest. it has also been criticised on several occasions for not having provided the legislator with all the details of its ongoing work. it was even found that documents were only sent to the legislator after they had been leaked to the public. i therefore decided to abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european banking authority (eba) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the discharge to the european banking authority (eba). although i am opposed to the establishment of the european banking supervisory mechanism, i must admit that the european banking authority (eba) is a counterweight to the power of the ecb, and mario draghi, despite the limited resources it has for the tasks entrusted to it. however, the eba has been criticised for not publishing information on senior civil servants who left the service and for not having a list of conflicts of interest. it has also been criticised on several occasions for not having provided the legislator with all the details of its ongoing work. it was even found that documents were only sent to the legislator after they had been leaked to the public.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this discharge report because, despite our opposition to the establishment of the european banking supervisory mechanism, we must recognise that the european banking authority (eba) is a counterweight to the power of the ecb. however, it is regrettable that the eba has not published information on senior civil servants who left the service and on the absence of a list of conflicts of interest.
in writing. - i abstained. the text provides for discharge to be given to the european banking authority (eba) for the financial year 2014. the analysis of the 2014 budget indicates that a number of comments should lead the eba to change its behaviour. the institution has difficulties in passing on information about its officials, conflicts of interest or work in progress to the legislator. however, such criticism may lead to an overall improvement of the entity. although i am against the european banking supervisory mechanism, i recognise the usefulness of the eba as a counterweight to mario draghi's ecb (european central bank), which is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i abstained on the discharge. we are opposed in principle to the establishment of a european banking supervisory mechanism. however, we welcome the counterbalance to the policy of the european central bank exercised by the eba. we regret the lack of information on conflicts of interest and staff leaving the eba. finally, a number of eba's work has not been forwarded to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european banking authority (eba) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ european banking supervision is not for my liking. however, the eba serves as a counterweight to the power of the ecb, and mario draghi, despite the limited resources it has for the tasks entrusted to it. however, its lack of transparency in several respects is damaging. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ not all the details of the work in progress have been passed on to parliamentarians, so i abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 discharge for the european banking authority, whose mission is to contribute to the creation of high-quality common standards and practices in banking regulation and supervision. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of eba, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority (eba) acts as a counterweight to the power of the ecb and mario draghi, despite the limited resources it has for the tasks entrusted to it. however, we can blame the eba for not publishing information on senior civil servants who left the service and for the lack of a list of conflicts of interest. it has also been criticised on several occasions for not having provided the legislator with all the details of its ongoing work. it was even found that documents were only sent to the legislator after they had been leaked to the public. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) in 2014. the eba is an independent union authority that ensures an effective and consistent level of regulation and supervision throughout the european banking sector. its main objectives are to maintain financial stability in the union and to ensure the integrity, efficiency and smooth functioning of the banking sector. the eba is expected to play an increasing role with the establishment of the banking union.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems it raises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) has a mission of information and expertise on human diseases: relying on a network of european experts, it does not have teams to intervene and treat locally in the event of a health crisis, but can grant some financial aid. if the court of auditors' report validates the centre's accounts and the parliament's report merely points out its weaknesses in terms of communication and above all its lack of international and media visibility, it should be noted that the centre has not fulfilled its mission: like the who, it has been far too late to declare the ebola crisis an emergency, and has never proposed to put an end to flights and trade in risky products between the infected areas and europe. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the centre's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 60.486.000, representing an increase of 3,72% compared to 2013. unfortunately, the ecdc has not fulfilled its mission in my eyes. like who, it was slow to declare the ebola crisis and never proposed to stop flights and trade in risky products between the infected areas and the eu. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is responsible for providing information and expertise on 52 communicable diseases and conditions, drawing on the european surveillance system. it assists the member states in their policies for combating epidemics. however, the ecdc has not been able to respond adequately to the ebola crisis, including by not recommending the suspension of air links and some trade with countries in risk areas. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control aims to identify, assess and raise awareness of emerging health risks posed by infectious diseases. this eu agency is of vital importance and is developing information tools such as the infectious diseases atlas. the european union must respond effectively and rapidly to infectious diseases and enable the rapid dissemination of scientific information on prevention and treatment. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurances that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and operations were regular, which is why i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) has a mission to provide information and expertise on human diseases, drawing on a network of european experts. it does not have teams to respond and treat locally in case of a health crisis but can grant some financial support. the 2014 budget of the centre was eur 60 million, fully financed from the union budget. it employs 275 people, which is a budget ratio of eur 218 000 per person. furthermore, while the ecdc has been studying the ebola outbreak since its inception, it has been slow to take it seriously, as has who. moreover, while she herself stressed the ineffectiveness of temperature tests at departure airports, she never proposed to stop flights and trade in risky products between the contaminated areas and europe. so we can consider that it has not fulfilled its protective role. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we consider that it has not fulfilled its mission during the ebola virus outbreak in west africa.
in writing. ‒ the centre's 2014 budget was €60 million, financed entirely from the eu budget. it employs 275 people, giving a budget/employment ratio of € 218,000 per person. the centre's activities in 2014 were strongly influenced by the ebola outbreak in west africa, but its contribution to the eu response was rather limited: it never proposed to stop theft and trade in risky products, for example. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). the parliament's report proposes to grant discharge, pointing out the weaknesses in terms of communication and above all the lack of international and media visibility of the centre. in terms of the centre's activities, 2014 was marked by the outbreak of the ebola virus in west africa. over a third of the center has been devoted to this outbreak, and some officers have gone on the ground, risking their lives. however, while the ecdc investigated the outbreak as soon as it occurred, it, like who, took it too seriously far too late. moreover, while she herself stressed the ineffectiveness of temperature screening at departure airports, she never proposed to end flights and trade in risky products (including banana diets that may harbor bats) between contaminated areas and europe. it can therefore be considered that it has not sufficiently fulfilled its protective role.
in writing. - i voted against this report. in my view, the ecdc has not taken the necessary measures to deal with the ebola crisis.
in writing. ‒ the centre's main mission is to carry out information and expertise missions on human diseases. it was particularly active in 2014, with the outbreak of the ebola virus in west africa. a third of its workforce has been mobilized to help solve the crisis. however, although the centre reacted quickly, it did not carry out its protection mission. for example, while the organization criticized the ineffectiveness of temperature screening at airports (to detect products that are dangerous to humans), it did not call for the end of flights from infected areas. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the ecdc has a mission of providing information and expertise on human diseases. it has a budget of eur 65 million and employs 275 people. the work on the ebola virus seems to have been mainly occupied in the 2014 financial year. we are, however, doubtful about the quality of the conclusions, which have never advocated, in particular, the end of the import of risky products. we therefore consider that the protection mission has not been fulfilled.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is not critical enough of the shortcomings of this protection organisation. especially in ebola where he failed to exercise caution despite his investment. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european centre for disease prevention and control. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the ecdc, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) has a mission of providing information and expertise on human diseases. it is based on a network of european experts. it does not have teams to respond and provide local care in the event of a health crisis. it may grant certain financial aids. the centre's 2014 budget amounted to €60 million, financed entirely from the union budget. it employs 275 people. budget/employment ratio: €218k/person in terms of the centre's activities, 2014 was marked by the outbreak of the ebola virus in west africa. over a third of the center has been devoted to this outbreak, and some officers have gone on the ground, risking their lives. however, while the ecdc investigated the outbreak as soon as it occurred, it, like who, took it too seriously far too late. moreover, while she herself stressed the ineffectiveness of temperature screening at departure airports, she never proposed to end flights and trade in risky products (including banana diets that may harbor bats) between contaminated areas and europe. i think that the centre has not done its job properly, and i therefore vote against the report and against discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i take this opportunity to remind you that we are asking the european chemicals agency to be more transparent and to reclassify the product glyphosate according to its hazardous nature.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems noted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency is responsible for the proper enforcement of chemicals legislation, for example, it is responsible for authorising chemicals such as plasticisers suspected of being endocrine disruptors and nanomaterials, and has hundreds of thousands of products under its control. however, only 6% of its budget comes from the union, the rest from the chemical industry which applies for authorizations: a problematic situation in that it creates a dependence which is necessary to achieve its objectivity. finally, its 2014 activity highlighted some surprising and completely forbidden practices: for example, in a letter dated 20 april 2016, it plans to reopen 700 files to verify their completeness and to give applicants a "reasonable time" to complete them, which is quite astonishing considering that these are potentially dangerous products for health and the environment. that is why i could not give echa discharge.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 114.112.193, an increase of 6,37% compared to 2013. the report recalls that, in accordance with the reach regulation, the agency is funded by fees paid by industry for the registration of chemicals and that in 2014 the agency was fully funded by fees collected for its activities under the reach and clp regulations. in reality, only 6% of its budget comes from the eu and the rest comes from the chemical industry applying for authorisations. if one can at first sight think that this saves the general budget, i think in reality that this system creates a problem of dependence and lack of objectivity of the agency. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the agency's 2014 activity revealed some surprising and completely forbidden practices: the agency has completed at least one application for marketing authorisation on its own initiative, that of dehp, an endocrine disruptor. it informed the applicant of the uses for which the product was intended, the classification of the substance as a substance of very high concern, the uses which condition the risks and therefore the authorization... to justify this practice, it clumsily advanced unsupported economic arguments in 2016 that should have justified the acceptance of serious health risks. in a letter dated 20 april 2016, it plans to reopen 700 files to check their completeness and to give applicants "reasonable time" to complete, which is quite astonishing. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency is responsible for the proper application of chemicals legislation. the commission has broad powers to register and even authorise chemicals, including plasticisers suspected of being endocrine disruptors. the court of auditors fails to note, for example, that 94% of the agency's financial resources come from the chemical industry, which casts doubt on its independence. in particular, the agency has completed on its own initiative at least one application for marketing authorisation for the endocrine disruptor dehp. it provided information on behalf of the applicant on the uses for which the product, which is classified as a substance of very high concern, was intended. for these compelling reasons i did not vote for the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014. in charge of implementing the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the regulation on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals, known as reach, the agency has a budget of eur 114 112 193 for the financial year 2014, an increase of 6.37% compared to 2013 (eur 6 513 623 paid by the commission and other contributions and funding amounting to eur 1 244 421). according to the european court of auditors, the rate of budget implementation was satisfactory at 97.08% in commitment appropriations and 87.46% in payment appropriations. since the annual audit of the court of auditors did not reveal any significant problems in the implementation of the budget, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency is responsible for ensuring that the relevant legislation is properly applied. the commission is thus responsible for registering and even authorising a considerable number of chemicals, for example plasticizers, which are suspected of being endocrine disruptors, and nanomaterials. the agency's activities in 2014 have revealed surprising and prohibited practices: the agency has completed at least one application for marketing authorisation on its own initiative, for dehp, an endocrine disruptor. it provided information on the intended uses of the substance, which is classified as a substance of very high concern, on behalf of the applicant. these uses are conditional on risk and therefore authorisation. to justify this practice, it clumsily advanced unsupported economic arguments in 2016 that should have justified the acceptance of serious health risks. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: its 2014 activity highlighted surprising and completely prohibited practices.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the agency's activities included prohibited practices: it completed on its own at least one application for marketing authorisation, for dehp, an endocrine disruptor. it also provided information on the intended uses of the product on behalf of the applicant. these practices do not allow the budget concerned to be subscribed, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european chemicals agency (echa) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european chemicals agency (echa). its activity in 2014 has brought to light some surprising and completely prohibited practices: the agency has completed on its own at least one application for marketing authorisation, for dehp, an endocrine disruptor. it informed the applicant of the uses for which the product was intended, the classification of the substance as a substance of very high concern, the uses which condition the risks and therefore the authorization... to justify this practice, it clumsily advanced unsupported economic arguments in 2016 that should have justified the acceptance of serious health risks. in a letter dated 20 april 2016, it plans to reopen 700 files to check their completeness and to give applicants "reasonable time" to complete, which is quite astonishing.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report mentions illegal practices, such as when the agency itself completed at least one application for marketing authorisation, for dehp, an endocrine disruptor. it informed the applicant of the uses for which the product was intended, the classification of the substance as a substance of very high concern, the uses which condition the risks and therefore the authorization... despite this finding, the report did not hesitate to give a discharge on the implementation of the 2014 budget.
in writing. - i voted against this text. it proposed to grant discharge to the european chemicals agency (echa) for the financial year 2014. although the institution which manages the proper enforcement of chemicals legislation is essential, it does not avoid certain irresponsible practices. some of its uses, in particular, are problematic, such as providing information on dangerous products on behalf of the applicant. to make matters worse, it plans to reopen 700 cases in 2016 to verify them. all these troubling maneuvers justify my decision not to give echa discharge.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. with a budget of €113 million, up 6% and a workforce of 587 people, the european chemicals agency is responsible for enforcing chemicals legislation and for registering and even authorising some of them. it has a portfolio of nearly 100,000 products. it should be noted that the bulk of its budget comes from private sources, in particular the chemical industry. only 6% of its budget comes from the european union. the court of auditors' report does not highlight any particular problem, but it is a worrying example of practice: the agency has allegedly authorised the placing on the market of an endocrine disruptor by itself supplementing some of the information necessary for the processing of the dossier. in a letter dated 20 april 2016, the agency acknowledged that such a practice could concern 700 files. in view of all these considerations, we cannot approve the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european chemicals agency (echa) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the agency has engaged in irresponsible practices, including the drafting of an application for the authorisation of an endocrine disruptor on the market. it has tried to justify this activity by economic arguments. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the 2014 budget discharge for the european chemicals agency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of echa, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european chemicals agency is responsible for the proper enforcement of chemicals legislation, a huge undertaking in relation to reach and the biocides directive. it is thus responsible for registering and even authorising chemicals, for example plasticisers suspected of being endocrine disruptors or nanomaterials. the number of products under his care is considerable and number in the hundreds of thousands. the 2014 activity highlighted some surprising and prohibited practices: the agency has completed at least one application for marketing authorisation on its own initiative, for dehp, an endocrine disruptor. it informed the applicant of the uses for which the product was intended, the classification of the substance as a substance of very high concern, the uses which condition the risks and therefore the authorization... to justify this practice, it clumsily advanced unsupported economic arguments in 2016 that should have justified the acceptance of serious health risks. in a letter dated 20 april 2016, it plans to reopen 700 files to check their completeness and to give applicants "reasonable time" to complete, which is quite astonishing. i therefore vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency (echa) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge: subsidies are not sufficiently controlled. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems it raises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the main task of the environment agency is to provide information and advice to the member states. the court first considers that the accounts are genuine, but nevertheless points out a rather worrying fact, when we know that the eea budget has increased by 25% since the 2013 financial year: in 2012 and 2013, the agency did not sufficiently control the use of the grants granted (respectively €11.9m and €13.9m). the report also highlights that in 2014 the control methods were still not adequate (problem of eligibility of expenditure or missing supporting documents). the agency promises to remedy this by means of a new control system applicable in 2016, but pending that system, i considered that there was no justification for granting discharge and therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 52.573.071, representing an increase of 6,7% compared to 2013. in this report, meps also made a number of observations on the agency's budgetary and financial management, commitments and carry-overs, procurement procedures, recruitment, controls and internal audit. the court of auditors indicated that in 2012 and 2013 the agency did not sufficiently control the use of the grants awarded and that the control methods do not always seem to be adequate. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in 2012 and 2013, the agency did not sufficiently monitor the use of grants awarded (€11.9 million and €13.9 million respectively). the report also highlights that in 2014 the control methods were still not adequate (problem of eligibility of expenditure or missing supporting documents). the agency promises to address this through a new control system applicable in 2016. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the environment agency informs and advises member states on their energy and sustainable development policies. its budget is constantly increasing (+ 25% compared to 2014) and confirms the control of the union institutions over environmental policies in the member states. i have refused to grant discharge because i consider that the agency does not sufficiently control the use of the grants it grants to certain projects, particularly as regards compliance with the eligibility rules.
in writing. ‒ the european environment agency helps member countries to integrate environmental considerations into economic policies in order to improve the state of the environment. it also coordinates the european environment information and observation network and is therefore an important and independent source of information for the member states. the budget implementation rate of the agency for the financial year 2014 was very high (99,19%). the court of auditors said it had obtained assurances that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and operations were regular, which is why i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. in charge of providing reliable and independent information on the state of the environment and helping the union and its member states to take informed decisions to improve the environment, to mainstream environmental and sustainable considerations into european policies, the agency received a budget of eur 52 573 071 for the year 2014, an increase of 6,70% compared to 2013 (76,81% of the agency's budget comes from the union budget). according to the european court of auditors, the commission's budget implementation rate is satisfactory at 99.19% in commitment appropriations and 87.19% in payment appropriations. since the annual audit of the court of auditors did not reveal any significant problems in the implementation of the budget, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the environment agency has a mainly information and advisory role with the member states. it also provides funding for projects with institutions and organisations. the 2014 budget was eur 52,6 million, an increase of 25% compared to 2013. it employs 135 people, with a budget ratio of eur 389 000 per person. in addition, in 2012 and 2013, the agency did not sufficiently control the use of grants awarded, respectively eur 11,9 and eur 13,9 million. the report also highlights problems of eligibility of expenditure or lack of supporting documents. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the court of auditors points out two problems. the first concerns a specification for an information system, which is rather anecdotal. the second is more worrying: in 2012 and 2013, the agency did not sufficiently control the use of the grants granted (€11.9 million and €13.9 million respectively).
in writing. ‒ the report highlights that in 2014, control methods were still not adequate, pointing to a problem of eligibility of expenditure or missing supporting documents. these remarks commit me not to accept the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european environment agency (eea) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european environment agency (eea). the court of auditors concluded that the accounts were genuine, but pointed out two problems. the first concerns a specification for an information system, which is rather anecdotal. the second is more worrying: in 2012 and 2013, the agency did not sufficiently control the use of the grants granted (respectively €11.9 million and €13.9 million). the report also highlights that in 2014 the control methods were still not adequate (problem of eligibility of expenditure or missing supporting documents). the agency promises to address this through a new control system applicable in 2016. until then, i do not think there is any justification for granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not think it is justified to grant discharge. the court of auditors pointed out that the agency did not sufficiently control the use of the grants awarded (€11.9 million and €13.9 million respectively). in addition, its budget has increased by 25% compared to 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european environment agency (eea) is audited annually on its budget by the european court of auditors. this is the subject of the text put to the vote, which deals with the financial year 2014. the rapporteur believes that the accounts are sincere and can be discharged for the year 2014. however, it also appears that irregularities have been found in practice this year. the agency did not appear to have sufficient control over the use of the grants awarded. in addition, the control methods were not always appropriate. in order not to neglect these problems, i do not think that the eaa should be given a discharge for this year. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. with a budget of €52.6 million (up 25% on 2015) and a staff of 135, the european environment agency provides information and advice to the member states. the court of auditors highlights the lack of rigour in the granting of grants, totalling eur 13,9 million in 2013. the agency promises to address this through a new control system applicable in 2016. until then, we do not think there is any justification for granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european environment agency (eea) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. - according to the court of auditors, the accounts are honest. however, it points to two problems, one of which is the lack of control over the use of the grants. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european environment agency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the eea, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the environment agency has essentially an information and advisory mission to the member states. it also provides funding for projects with 'institutions and organisations' its 2014 budget was €52.6m, or +25% compared to 2013! it employs 135 people. budget/employment ratio: 389 k€/person the court of auditors concluded that the accounts were genuine, but it pointed out two problems. the first concerns a specification for an information system, which is rather anecdotal. the second is more worrying: in 2012 and 2013, the agency did not sufficiently control the use of the grants granted (€11.9 million and €13.9 million respectively). the report also highlights that in 2014 the control methods were still not adequate (problem of eligibility of expenditure or missing supporting documents). in these circumstances, i shall vote against the discharge and against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that the european fisheries control agency (efca) add to its mandate, like all other maritime agencies, the cooperation of coast guard functions to help manage migratory flows. to fulfil this new mission, the eu contribution to the agency will increase by around €7.5 million per year, after the agency's budget was reduced without impacting its work. however, given the current migration policies, the increase in financial resources and the synergy between maritime agencies will only result in encouraging illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of illegal immigrants to europe, which i cannot support. moreover, it would prevent the agency from fulfilling its primary and most important task; i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 9 217 150, paid in full from the union budget. the report on the agency also deals with the implementation of the objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy and welcomes the agency's close collaboration with the member states to organise the monitoring of the landing obligation by improving the control and monitoring of fishing activities. i remain convinced that fisheries policy must be a matter for the states, just as agricultural policy is. moreover, the text is not sufficiently critical in view of the problems identified, so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ while the implementation rate of commitment appropriations (99%) and payment appropriations (88%) is increasing and demonstrates improved management in the functioning of the agency with a constant budget, rapporteur derek vaughan calls for its budget to be revised upwards. but the worst part is that the report states that the agency will be called upon to contribute to the management of migration flows at sea, going far beyond its original mandate. in this case, instead of carrying out their fishing surveillance mission, the coastguards will conduct rescue missions of migrants at sea and bring them back to european shores. for these two reasons i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the operations were legal and regular. in addition, the agency contributes significantly to the implementation of the objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy and works closely with the member states to organise the monitoring of the landing obligation by improving the control and monitoring of fishing activities. it implements new tasks with a frozen budget at the level of 2013 and a reduction in its staff. the mandate of the agency should be strengthened to set up joint operational actions with other european agencies specialised in maritime matters, in order to prevent disasters at sea and to coordinate the activity of the european coast guard in the framework of the cooperation of the coast guard functions provided for by the commission.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, i am opposed to increasing the appropriations of the european fisheries control agency, insofar as this contributes to agencyisation, i.e. the increase in the number of european agencies and the extension of their powers, which have heavy budgetary consequences. in addition, the aecp will be used to manage migration flows. to fulfil this new mission, the eu's contribution to the aecp will increase by around €7.5 million per year. given current migration policies, this can be expected to encourage illegal immigration by increasing migrant returns to europe. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: increased financial resources and synergy between maritime agencies will only encourage illegal immigration, given current migration policies.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this discharge for a political reason. the role of the agency is increasingly to extend the scope of its action to security activities in relation to the migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european fisheries control agency (efca) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european fisheries control agency (efca). good budgetary results are achieved despite the fact that the agency's budget has been frozen since 2013. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, in particular by adopting a new regulation on the european union's fishing fleet. we are against agencyisation, that is to say the increase in the number of european agencies and the extension of their powers, which are an incentive to increase the budget allocated to these agencies. i therefore oppose the request in the report to increase the appropriations for the acp. in addition, the epa will add to its mandate, as with all other maritime agencies, the cooperation of coast guard functions. increased financial resources and synergy between maritime agencies can only lead, in the light of current migration policies, to fostering illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which gives discharge. increased financial resources and synergy between maritime agencies will only result, in view of current migration policies, in encouraging illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency (efca) has the main task of coordinating the application of the rules in this field, through the pooling of national resources, in order to create a european uniformity. in 2014, according to the text, it implemented its budget well. however, it is not immune to economic and political problems. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the commission also gradually extends its powers to the cooperation of coast guard functions. in addition, it will be used to manage the migration funds. i can only vote against all these measures.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. on the budgetary side, we note that despite the budget freeze since 2013, the cepa is carrying out its missions with reduced staff. this is a very good sign of the need for more budgetary restraint for the european agencies, whose number and operating costs are constantly increasing. we are strongly opposed to the addition of a coastguard cooperation function, which justifies a budgetary increase (eur 7.5 million) and an increase in the number of staff (recruitment of 13 officers) of the aecp in order to invest it with a new migration control mission.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european fisheries control agency (efca) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
‒ i am against the multiplication of european agencies and the extension of powers which tends to justify heavier subsidies. i think that given the current migration policies, the increase in funding for maritime agencies is unsustainable. this will only serve to increase the expatriation of emigrants to europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european fisheries control agency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the agency, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the epa will add to its mandate, as with all other maritime agencies, the cooperation of coastguard functions (point 23). the same text has been introduced in the mandates of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european border and coast guard agency. the european fisheries control agency (efca) will therefore be called upon to help manage migratory flows. to fulfil this new mission, the eu contribution to aecp will increase by around €7.5 million per year (or around €30.148 million for the period 2017-2020) and 13 staff will be recruited. i firmly reject this aberrant extension of the agency's powers and therefore vote against the report and the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems noted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority is responsible for the evaluation and monitoring of foodstuffs subject to authorisation, such as gmos, additives and sweeteners. the parliament's report proposes to grant discharge despite its numerous remarks on the risks of conflicts of interest which would affect nearly one third of the experts requested. when it comes to the food security of europeans, and therefore their health, these conflicts of interest are unacceptable. the daily practice of efsa is also to be deplored: it takes little or no account of the opinions of the national agencies, especially in the case of gmo evaluations. the lack of prudence in its opinions can also be blamed on it: for example, its favourable opinion on bisphenol a validated at the end of 2014 was biased. in these circumstances, i cannot give discharge to the agency, because i believe that its mission is not being carried out in the interests of the europeans.
in writing. ‒ i refused to grant discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa). while the agency's a priori task is to ensure the evaluation and monitoring of foodstuffs subject to authorization such as gmos, i am very concerned about the possible risks of conflicts of interest which raise the question of the agency's impartiality and thus its ability to ensure food security for the citizens of the member states. for example, a former lobbyist close to multinational food companies has recently been recruited as the agency's director of communication. the commission also tends to disregard the advice of national food safety agencies, particularly in the case of gmo evaluations; it should be noted that efsa has given a favourable opinion on the use of bisphenol a, without any respect for the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ the daily practice of efsa is to be deplored: it takes little or no account of the opinions of the national agencies, especially in the case of gmo evaluations, which leads to systematic objections by the parliament, without effect since these are implementing acts. it can also be blamed for the lack of caution in its opinions: for example, its opinion in favour of bisphenol a validated at the end of 2014 was biased. in these circumstances, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority assesses and monitors food products subject to authorisation, such as gmos, additives and sweeteners. the risks of conflicts of interest which would affect nearly one third of the experts consulted, the lack of caution in the publication of certain opinions, particularly on bisphenol a, and the lack of cooperation with the national agencies on the impact assessment of gmos, demonstrate that the conditions are not in place to vote in favour of the budget discharge which has been submitted to us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european food safety authority for the year 2014. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the operations were legal and regular. the authority is an impartial source of scientific advice and communication on risks associated with the food chain. it provides european risk managers with objective and independent scientific advice and develops innovative working methods to ensure that the food safety system in europe remains at the cutting edge of the most current scientific practices.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014. the agency, which is responsible for providing expertise and advice in the food field, had a budget of eur 79 701 222 for 2014, an increase of 2,11% compared to 2013. the european court of auditors has found that the rate of budget implementation is satisfactory, with 99.69% being committed appropriations and 89.31% being paid. since the annual audit of the court of auditors did not reveal any significant problems in the implementation of the budget, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority is responsible for the evaluation and monitoring of foodstuffs subject to authorisation, such as gmos, additives and sweeteners. the parliament's report proposes to vote on the discharge despite the risk of conflicts of interest affecting almost a third of the experts requested. when it comes to food security and therefore health, these conflicts of interest are unacceptable. for example, we cannot tolerate the recruitment of a former food industry lobbyist to the post of director of communications at the agency. in addition, efsa takes little account of the opinions of the national agencies, particularly in the case of gmo evaluations. this leads to systematic objections by parliament, which have no effect because these are implementing acts. finally, it can be pointed out the lack of caution in its opinions, for example the one in favor of bisphenol a, validated at the end of 2014, which was biased. the agency's mission is not being carried out in the interests of europeans, and i have voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: daily practice to be deplored: it takes little or no account of the opinions of the national agencies, particularly in the case of gmo evaluations, which leads to systematic objections by parliament, without effect since these are implementing acts. he may also be accused of being unwise in his judgments.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this discharge because of the many comments on the risk of conflicts of interest affecting almost a third of the experts requested. when it comes to the food security of europeans, and therefore their health, these conflicts of interest are unacceptable. one example is the recruitment of a former food industry lobbyist to the post of director of communications at the agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european food safety authority (efsa) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa). the parliament's report proposes to grant discharge, despite its numerous remarks on the risks of conflicts of interest which would affect nearly one third of the experts requested. when it comes to the food security of europeans, and therefore their health, these conflicts of interest are unacceptable. the recruitment of a former food industry lobbyist as the agency's director of communications is one example. the daily practice of efsa is also to be deplored: it takes little or no account of the opinions of the national agencies, especially in the case of gmo evaluations. this leads to systematic objections by parliament, which have no effect because these are implementing acts. he may also be accused of being unwise in his judgments. for example, its favourable opinion on bisphenol a validated at the end of 2014 was biased.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report gives a discharge on the implementation of the budget, while mentioning the risk of conflicts of interest concerning almost one third of the experts requested. i would mention, for example, the recruitment of a former food industry lobbyist to the post of director of communications at the agency. this is all the more worrying as it is the food security of europeans that is at stake.
in writing. ‒ in order to best fulfil its tasks, i.e. the evaluation and monitoring of foodstuffs subject to authorisation (such as gmos, additives, sweeteners) and the issuing of opinions (for example on food contact materials), efsa receives funds which are examined annually by the court of auditors. (this is the subject of this report). however, he points out several anomalies in the 2014 budget. indeed, the agency's activities are marred by conflicts of interest, such as the recruitment of a former food industry lobbyist to the communications department. in addition, it tends to act alone and disregard the advice of other european national health agencies. his lack of caution in his opinions is against the interests of europeans. i therefore voted against this text, to denounce such behaviour.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the european food safety authority is responsible for the evaluation and monitoring of foodstuffs subject to authorisation. the agency has a budget of eur 79 million and employs 499 people. several problems with efsa are noted: the risks of conflicts of interest, which are said to affect one third of the agency's experts; the lack of respect for the opinions of national agencies, especially in the case of gmos; the lack of prudence in some of its opinions, in particular the opinions in favour of bisphenol a. in view of all these considerations, it is not possible to grant a discharge to efsa.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa) for the implementation of its 2014 budget, whose glyphosate case has revealed its full power of nuisance. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ efsa's practices are intolerable, given that they take very little account of the opinions of national agencies. the prudence of his opinions is not well known, for example, the one on bisphenol a was biased. despite its too light criticism, the report wants to give the agency a discharge. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european food safety authority. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of efsa, the court of auditors considers in its annual report on the authority's accounts that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's report proposes to grant discharge despite its numerous remarks on the risks of conflicts of interest which would affect nearly one third of the experts requested. when it comes to the food security of the citizens of the member states, and therefore their health, these conflicts of interest are unacceptable. the recruitment of a former food industry lobbyist as the agency's director of communications is one example. i therefore vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems noted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the eige's mission is to 'ensure the good dissemination of eu policies related to the promotion of equality between men and women' and 'to combat gender discrimination'. however, the institute deviates from its mission to conduct research on lgbt people. the report also notes that the institute cooperates closely with the femm committee, which politically orients its work towards a communitarianism harmful to our societies, and that it operates synergies with other bodies, in particular with frontex, which is not in line with the fight against illegal immigration. i therefore voted against this motion for a discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european institute for gender equality (eige). the institute, which was originally set up to ensure the proper dissemination of eu policies related to the promotion of gender equality, has in fact become a lgbti propaganda workshop, with a totally communitarian perspective. this community-oriented approach is further confirmed by its close cooperation with the frontex agency: there are no longer men and women but more and more potential "victims", categorised by their minority status, be it ethnic or sexual. the institute is also badly managed in terms of the budget itself: the rate of implementation of payment appropriations, 72%, is disappointing, as is the principle of annuality of the budget, which is not really respected by the institute.
in writing. ‒ the eige's mission is to inform and ensure the good dissemination of eu policies and to combat discrimination on grounds of sex. the institute also works on lgbt issues. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations is poor, at 72%, and its close cooperation with the femm committee gives political direction to the content of its work and its independence is beginning to wane. i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the eige's mission is to communicate on the union's policies on the promotion of equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination on grounds of sex. the budget of this institute, which tends to deviate from its mission to carry out work on lgbt people, amounted to 7.3 million euros in 2014. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations of 72% is poor and suggests that the decrease of around 3% in the 2014 budget compared to 2013 should be continued. the total volume of committed appropriations carried over, although still decreasing in 2014, nevertheless amounts to eur 1,9 million. the principle of annuality of the budget is therefore not respected by this institute. the institute's cooperation with the femm committee affects its work by politically orienting it towards a harmful communitarianism and undermines its independence. similarly, its cooperation with frontex is not in the direction of the fight against illegal immigration. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the rate of implementation of payment appropriations at 72% is poor. this low rate of implementation suggests that the decrease of 3,08% in the 2014 budget compared to 2013 can and should be continued.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that the institute cooperates closely with the femm committee and has synergies with other bodies, including frontex. this gives rise to political orientations which we do not intend to support, while cooperation with frontex does not go in the direction of the fight against illegal immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european institute for gender equality a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european institute for gender equality (eige). the rate of implementation of payment appropriations - 72% - is poor. this low rate of implementation suggests that the decrease of 3,08% of the 2014 budget compared to 2013 can and should be continued. moreover, the total volume of carry-overs of committed appropriations, although still decreasing in 2014, nevertheless amounts to eur 1,9 million: in other words, the principle of annuality of the budget is not really respected by this institute. the report also notes that the institute cooperates closely with the femm committee and has synergies with other bodies, including frontex. cooperation with the femm committee affects its work by politically orienting it towards a communitarianism which i do not wish to support, while cooperation with frontex does not go in the direction of the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, on the one hand, the budget of this institute is badly managed, and, on the other hand, this institute is too close to the femm committee, which undermines its independence.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the report highlights many anomalies in the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige). this european body is responsible for promoting equality between men and women and between the sexes. it is clear from the comments in the text that eige is not independent and is influenced by the femm committee (women's rights and gender equality), which itself acts in symbiosis with frontex (european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the eu member states). as a result, it is impacted by a number of ideological currents in favor of lgbt, migrants, etc. its independence is therefore far from being enforced, as is its budget line, which is little respected. therefore, it is impossible to grant discharge for the financial year 2014.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the eige's mission is to promote gender equality and to raise awareness of cases of gender discrimination. with a staff of 46 and a budget of eur 7.3 million, the eige is poorly managed. this is evidenced by the decline in the rate of budget implementation and a substantial volume of carryovers. these two elements suggest that the decrease of 3,08% in the 2014 budget compared to 2013 is a good decision, which should be confirmed. as for the eige's tasks, we denounce their decidedly communitarian orientation. this is reflected in the eige's collaboration with the femm committee of the european parliament. the cooperation with frontex does not lead to an intensification of the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the figures show that the european institute is not managing its budget properly. moreover, its de facto proximity to the femm commission is detrimental to its independence. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european institute for gender equality, which was set up to promote gender equality, to which i am very attached, in all eu policies. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the eige, the court of auditors considers in its annual report on the accounts of the institute to have obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ not very well managed in terms of budget, the institute is also too close to the femm committee, which undermines its independence. i therefore vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the european institute for gender equality (eige) in 2014. the institute is an eu agency that supports the work of the member states and the european institutions in promoting equality between men and women. equality between men and women is not only a fundamental right, it is also a necessary condition for achieving the union's objective of economic growth and social cohesion. in this respect, the agency plays a crucial role in raising awareness and providing support to the member states and the union institutions.
in writing. ‒ the eige's mission is to inform and ensure the good dissemination of eu policies related to the promotion of equality between men and women and the fight against discrimination based on sex. however, the institute deviates from its mission to conduct research on lgbt people. the institute is also very poorly managed from a budgetary point of view and is far too close to the femm committee, which undermines its independence. i vote against the discharge.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems noted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management: it now shares some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge to be given to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of its budget. rather neutral, the report merely summarizes the management without really criticizing it, not focusing on the increase of 15% of the 2014 budget compared to the 2013 fiscal year, which is surprising in a period of deliberate reduction of the union's budgets. the report also praised the agency for its management, mentioning internal conflicts of interest procedures as initiated, without stressing the lack of requirements of the agency on these issues. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i refused to grant discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the final budget of the eaapp increased by 15% compared to 2013 and amounts to eur 21,5 million. the agency also tends to substitute itself for parliament in financial supervision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i am doubtful about the internal procedures for conflicts of interest, which still need to be developed.
in writing. ‒ the increase of 15% in the eaapp budget compared to 2013 alone justifies voting against the budget discharge proposal. above all, the report merely comments on management without ever offering a critical analysis of management by the agency. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to grant discharge to the insurance and occupational pensions authority (aeapp) for the year 2014. the agency is part of the european system of financial supervision, the esfs. it was created in 2010 by the european legislators to restore confidence in the european financial market by ensuring its integrity through increased oversight of the financial system. the eeaapp focuses mainly on the insurance sector. its objectives are to ensure the efficiency and stability of the financial market and to assess the risks in the insurance and personal pension sectors.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for 2014 was eur 21.5 million, representing an increase of 15% compared to 2013, in the midst of a period of necessary reduction of the union's budgets. the authority has an important role in the european financial supervision system, which is why parliament has increased its responsibilities since last year. however, the growth of its activity may have given the impression to the members of the agency that they had direct authority and not delegated authority. the report mentions the internal risks of conflicts of interest without stressing the lack of requirements of the agency on these issues. as he is reviewing the management without actually criticising it, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: rather neutral, the report merely summarises management without actually criticising it.
in writing. ‒ the agency's budget in 2014 was eur 21.5 million, an increase of 15% compared to 2013. this fact alone leads me to criticise its operation at a time of deliberate cuts in the union's budgets. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the final budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for 2014 was eur 21,5 million, representing an increase of 15% compared to 2013. this fact alone should make us unhappy with its functioning in a time of deliberate cuts in eu budgets. the authority has an important role in the european financial supervision system, which is why parliament has increased its responsibilities since last year; the report stresses, however, that parliament remains sovereign in its decisions on these matters and that the authority does not have to take its place. the growth of its activity may have given the impression to the members of the agency that they had direct authority and not delegated authority. the report takes advantage of the management report to emphasize this point. however, the report gives a satisfactory report on the agency's management, and internal conflicts of interest procedures are mentioned as initiated, without emphasising the lack of requirements of the agency on these issues.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report is rather neutral, merely summarising the management without actually criticizing it. he gave no reassuring indication that discharge could be granted.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiap) has an important role in the european system of financial supervision; however, it remains under the direct authority of the european parliament. the increase in his skills and activity is therefore abnormal, given his role. although the report remains neutral and uncritical, it is important to note these anomalies. i therefore oppose the granting of this discharge.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the agency's responsibilities increased last year. it does not, however, replace the authority of the european parliament. the agency's budget is clearly higher than in 2013 (+15%). the report is not critical of management. however, it is noted that the procedures for conflicts of interest are not optimal.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016), and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is not critical enough in view of the difficulties identified. his point is essentially descriptive. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of aeapp, the court of auditors considers, in its annual report on the accounts of the authority, that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is rather neutral, merely summarising management without actually criticizing it. i think it is far too complacent and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the insurance and occupational pensions authority (aeapp) in 2014. the objectives of the aeapp are to improve the protection of consumers, insured persons, pension schemes and their beneficiaries, to ensure a high level of regulatory efficiency and to harmonise the application of the rules for financial institutions and markets in a consistent manner across the union. this authority is essential to ensure the transparency of financial markets and products, to monitor and identify trends, potential risks and vulnerabilities within the common market as a whole.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems noted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge on the implementation of the budget of the eit (european institute of technology): while the report welcomes the internal revision of the governance code of conduct and notes positively that internal procedures, both conflicts of interest and procurement, have been respected, it does not dwell enough on the use of grants or the causes that led the institute to overestimate its budget. even if the management is less bad than elsewhere, i cannot support the granting of a discharge to an institution which is so casual in its use of european funds.
in writing. ‒ i could not accept to give discharge to the eit, even though the institute had overestimated its budgetary needs by a surplus of €13 million. the eit clearly has no such need for grants, as the research centres have been able to carry out their missions without using all of these inputs. in addition, the commission appears to have failed in its role of recruiting staff for the agency as many management problems were raised by the report. the eit's financial and managerial management needs to be clarified and, despite the overly complacent report by the rapporteur of parliament, these doubts are enough to make me reject the possibility of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report by derek vaughan denounces an overestimation of the agency's budgetary need of €13 million due to the reprogramming of oversized projects, originally intended for research centres. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. i voted against that position.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology contributes to strengthening europe's capacity to innovate, to be competitive and to create growth and jobs. the agency links innovation actors such as business, academia and research to form multinational partnerships to develop innovative products and services and help create new businesses. parliament noted in the 2014 financial year that the court of auditors had obtained assurances that the centre's annual accounts for the 2014 financial year were reliable and operations were regular, which is why i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report does not deal enough with the insufficient use of subsidies or other causes that led to overestimating its budget. the text even presents some details as important developments. he even welcomes the fact that the institute has optimized its website and increased its presence on social networks. even if the eit seems to be a less bad student than others, as far as its management is concerned, the institute still remains too disconnected from the realities of the field to merit approval in principle. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: as regards its management, the institute is still too 'off-line' to merit approval in principle.
in writing. ‒ this report points to the institute's overestimation of its budgetary needs for 2014 to a surplus of €13 million, due to the non-use of grants. the latter had to be directed to the research centres, which did not need all the funds to carry out their missions. in addition, the report highlights the high turnover of personnel and notes in particular the instability of management. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report postponing the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the annual budget of the eit (european institute of technology) was eur 233,1 million in 2014. however, the report points to the institute's overestimation of its budgetary needs for 2014 to a surplus of eur 13 million. the difference is explained by the non-use of subsidies. the latter had to be directed to the research centres, which did not need all the funds to carry out their missions. the report also highlights the high turnover in personnel and notes in particular the instability of management and the difficulties in recruiting. even if the eit seems to be a less bad student than others, as far as its management is concerned, the institute is still too disconnected from the field to merit approval in principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which gives discharge. even if the eit seems to be a less bad student than others, as far as its management is concerned, this institute still remains too "disconnected" from the field to merit approval in principle.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of technology (eit) invests mainly in research and helps businesses and educational and research institutions to cooperate to foster innovation in europe. however, the text shows that it does not fulfill its primary function. the institute did not use all the funds at its disposal to invest in the research centres. on the other hand, there is a large gap between its expenditure and its budget, which raises questions about the causes of this overestimation of the budget. the report fails to address these fundamental questions and merely observes minor problems. it is also clear that the eit is a european institute that is out of touch with reality, and i cannot accept that. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. with a budget of €233.1 million in 2014, the management of the eit is not optimal. firstly, there is a considerable budget surplus, due to the non-allocation of subsidies. the turnover of personnel is significant. these reservations aside, we welcome the respect of the procurement procedures. the eit also partners with other institutions to reduce the cost of certain purchases. it is admitted that this institute is probably quite virtuous in terms of management. however, the unnecessary expense and disconnection of the land do not make us approve of the landfill.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ overall, the eit is doing relatively well. however, its action far from the realities of the ground prevents approval. the investigation report is too sketchy. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not critical enough, many corrections should be requested which are not. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology, which plays a fundamental role in protecting and promoting public and animal health. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the eit, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ even if the eit seems to be a less bad student than others in terms of its management, this institute still remains too "disconnected" from the field to deserve approval in principle. i therefore vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) in 2014. the eit's generic mission is to promote innovation in the eu member states. to this end, the eit helps businesses and education and research institutions to work together to create an environment conducive to innovation and entrepreneurship in europe. the eit is essential to help strengthen the union's capacity to innovate, compete with its foreign competitors and thus create growth and jobs.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory despite the problems identified and ignores the problems of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ only 12% of the budget of the ema (european medicines agency), which has a pharmacovigilance role and issues marketing authorisations for specific classes of medicines (anti-cancer, anti-hiv, genetically engineered medicines such as the controversial cervical cancer vaccines, gardasil and cervarix, etc.) comes from eu funds, the rest being subsidies from the pharmaceutical industry that applies for authorisations, which is a dependency and seriously impairs the agency's objectivity. there are also several issues with budget management (including non-compliance with deadlines for calling laboratory payments and settling national agencies) and a serious conflict of interest: one member of the agency's board representing companies whose products depend on the agency's authorization; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of the discharge for the european medicines agency (ema). although the court of auditors has validated the accounts of the ema, some aspects of the agency's operation raise questions. first of all, it should be remembered that only 12% of its budget comes from the eu, the rest from the pharmaceutical industry, which is already questionable from the point of view of ethics and the risks of conflicts of interest. in addition, certain provisions of the agency's statutes have led to questionable transactions, such as the fact that the ema was able to conclude a consultancy contract for eur 15 million without even informing the agency's board of directors. other disturbing elements include the failure to meet deadlines for calling for payments from laboratories and settling national agencies, and weaknesses in management control. such shortcomings therefore did not allow discharge to be granted.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency issues marketing authorisations for specific classes of medicines. 88% of its financial resources come from the pharmaceutical industry, placing the agency in a dependent relationship with those to whom it issues authorisations. the failure to meet the deadlines for calling for payments from the laboratories and settling the national agencies, together with the serious conflict of interest revealed by the agency itself against a member of the board of directors, motivated my choice to vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014. the agency, which is responsible for assessing, coordinating and supervising the development of new medicines for human and veterinary use in the european union, received a contribution of eur 282 474 000 for 2013, an increase of 12,29% compared to 2013 (12,53% of the agency's budget comes from the union budget). according to the european court of auditors, the rate of budget implementation is satisfactory at 94.32% in commitment appropriations and 82.30% in payment appropriations. since the annual audit of the court of auditors did not reveal any significant problems in the implementation of the budget, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency issues marketing authorisations for many types of medicines and oversees pharmacovigilance at european level. only 12% of its budget, totalling eur 282 million in 2014, came from the union. the rest comes from the pharmaceutical industry, which is problematic because of the dependence and the lack of objectivity. the court of auditors points out that a consultancy contract worth eur 15 million was awarded without informing the board of directors, which is regrettable. it also points to the failure to meet deadlines for calling for payments from laboratories and settling national agencies, and to shortcomings in management controls. finally, professor nistico represented parliament for three terms on the administrative board, without specifying that he held senior positions for an english company and a chinese company whose product authorization is dependent on the agency. in these circumstances, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the court of auditors points to several points of concern: the award of a consultancy contract for €15 million without informing the board of directors (even if this is in line with the agency's statutes), the failure to respect the deadlines for calling for payments from laboratories and settling national agencies, and shortcomings in management control.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency consumed a 2014 budget of €282m, an increase of 13%, and employs 580 people. only 12% of its budget comes from the union, the rest comes from the pharmaceutical industry which is applying for authorizations, which is already problematic because it creates a dependency and impairs its objectivity. for example, professor nistico, who was president of the agency for three terms, was at the same time responsible for a british firm whose medicines are being studied by the agency. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency (ema) in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european medicines agency (ema). the court of auditors gives the agency a blank cheque for the accuracy of its accounts. however, it points to several points of concern: the conclusion of a consultancy contract for €15 million without informing the board of directors, the failure to meet deadlines for calling for payments from laboratories and settling national agencies, and shortcomings in management control. there is also a serious conflict of interest, but parliament was informed of this by the agency itself. mr nistico represented parliament for three terms (9 years) on the administrative board without updating his declaration of interest. he thus 'failed' to specify that he held senior positions for an english company and a chinese company whose products depend precisely on the agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which gives discharge. the european medicines agency grants marketing authorisations for specific classes of medicines (anti-cancer, anti-hiv, genetically engineered medicines such as the controversial cervical cancer vaccines, gardasil and cervarix, etc.). however, there is a serious conflict of interest. mr nistico represented parliament for three terms (9 years) on the administrative board without updating his declaration of interest. he thus 'failed' to specify that he held senior positions for an english company and a chinese company whose products depend precisely on the agency.
in writing. ‒ the discharge for the 2014 financial year aims to relieve the european medicines agency (ema) of all responsibility for its financial conduct. the rapporteur's conclusion is that the agency is faithful to its accounts and is a good student among all the european institutions. however, as it is responsible for granting marketing authorisations for specific medicines (such as cancer drugs, anti-hiv drugs, etc.), it is under pressure from many lobbyists. it is, among other things, marked by a significant conflict of interest with the case of dr nistico who, while representing parliament for three years, held important positions in english and chinese society. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. with a budget of eur 282 million (up 13% on 2013) and a staff of 580, the ema is responsible for granting marketing authorisations for specific medicines: anticancer, antiretroviral, etc. his independence is in question. only 12% of its budget comes from the european budget. the rest is privately funded. the court of auditors also pointed out numerous shortcomings in payments and management control. a conflict of interest case involving professor nistico is pending. he represented parliament in the ema for three terms. at the same time, he was working for two pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european medicines agency (ema) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the management of the medicines agency lacked transparency and small lax deviations from the rules were noted. in addition, a major conflict of interest for which the agency alerted parliament occurred around a certain professor pico who allegedly failed to update his declaration of interest. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 discharge for the european medicines agency, which plays a fundamental role in protecting and promoting public and animal health. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of ema, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european medicines agency consumed a 2014 budget of €282 million (+13%) and employs 580 people. only 12% of its budget comes from the union, the rest comes from the pharmaceutical industry applying for authorizations, which is already problematic because it creates a dependency and impairs its objectivity, but the agency is not responsible for this. the budget/employment ratio is 486 k euro/person. the court of auditors gives the agency a blank cheque for the accuracy of its accounts. however, it points to several points of concern: the award of a consultancy contract for eur 15 million without informing the board of directors (even if this is in line with the agency's statutes), the failure to respect the deadlines for calling for payments from laboratories and settling national agencies, and shortcomings in management control. there is also a serious conflict of interest, but parliament was informed of this by the agency itself. mr nistico represented parliament for three terms (9 years) on the administrative board without updating his declaration of interest. he thus 'failed' to specify that he held senior positions for an english company and a chinese company whose products depend precisely on the agency. in these circumstances, i shall vote against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems identified, such as the lack of internal transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge to be given to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the implementation of the budget. the emcdda had a budget of eur 15,5 million in 2014, which is a decrease of 3,33% compared to 2013. the report also stresses that the observatory has taken steps to further reduce its operational needs in the future. however, it is also clear from this management report that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is rather poorly managed, that its objectives are unclear and that there is a lack of internal transparency due to the absence of internal regulatory rules. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ due to certain shortcomings identified in the report of the committee on budgetary control, i could not vote in favour of granting discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda). the financial management of the agency remains questionable, particularly in terms of the lack of whistleblower principles and issues related to the possibility of conflicts of interest. while the emcdda has already taken some steps to reduce its operating costs, the above mentioned malfunctions call for caution and therefore for a vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ vague and ill-defined objectives, lack of transparency in internal management, lack of procedures to prevent conflicts of interest, these reasons justify my vote against granting discharge, despite the decrease in its budget compared to 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which was eur 15.5 million in 2014. the report stresses that the observatory should be more responsive to financial regulation rules, which suggest the establishment of principles on whistleblowers and conflicts of interest. the report asks the observatory to ensure that a solution is found for its premises, which depend on the autonomous port of lisbon, which are under-employed. it is clear from this management report that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is rather poorly managed, has unclear objectives and lacks internal transparency and rules of internal regulation. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it is clear from this management report that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is rather poorly managed, that its objectives are unclear and that it lacks internal transparency (no rules on internal regulation).
in writing. ‒ reading this report, one can see that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is rather poorly managed, has unclear objectives and lacks internal transparency. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda). the project has a budget of eur 15,5 million in 2014. this represents a decrease of 3,33% compared to 2013. the report also stresses that the observatory has taken steps to further reduce its operational needs in the future. however, the report stresses that the observatory should be more responsive to financial regulation rules, which suggest the establishment of principles on whistleblowers and conflicts of interest. the report asks the observatory to ensure that a solution is found for its premises, which depend on the autonomous port of lisbon, which are under-employed. it is clear from this management report that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is rather poorly managed, that its objectives are unclear and that there is a lack of internal transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for discharge on the implementation of the budget. the management report shows that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is rather poorly managed, has unclear objectives and lacks internal transparency (no internal rules of regulation).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, as the report is unreliable and reveals a lack of transparency within the emcdda. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the most important problem is the lack of internal regulatory rules.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. with a budget of €15.5 million in 2014 (down 3.33% compared to 2013), the emcdda does not seem to be managing particularly well. the court of auditors' report shows that financial regulation and rules on whistleblowers and conflicts of interest are still not in place. in addition, the emcdda occupies a large premises in the autonomous port of lisbon. that would not justify the area. in view of these considerations, we cannot approve the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ two main points were to be noted: firstly, the lack of internal transparency, its vague objectives, and secondly, the survey report, which does not sufficiently explain the overall poor management of the observatory. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 budgetary discharge for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the emcdda, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ this management report shows that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is rather poorly managed, has unclear objectives and lacks internal transparency (lack of internal rules). i therefore vote against the report, which calls unduly for discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the report is clearly too conciliatory, despite the problems noted. in addition, there is no question of responding to the demand for increased reception capacity for migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors considers that the 2014 budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) has been correctly implemented and that, in fact, in 2014 the appropriations of the emsa were reduced by 9,37% compared to 2013, which i can only welcome, as i am opposed to agencyisation, i.e. the increase in the number of european agencies and the extension of their competences, which encourages an increase in the budget allocated to these agencies. that is also why i cannot share the regret expressed in the report about the reduction in the number of staff at the emea. the commission, like the other maritime agencies, is also responsible for managing the refugee crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the introduction of a new system of immigration controls, which will only lead, in the light of current migration policies, to the promotion of illegal immigration by increasing the number of returnees to europe. for these two reasons i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the european maritime safety agency. despite acceptable budget management, the agency has been largely diverted from its core mission to deal with the refugee crisis. i also disagree with the rapporteur when he regrets the decrease of 9.37 per cent in appropriations for the emsa compared with 2013. this is indeed a healthy budgetary consolidation for these european agencies, which are mandated to act in place of policy-makers. this is an intolerable technocratization, especially since, in this particular case, it may only lead to encouraging illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe.
in writing. ‒ this report regrets the decrease in the emsa budget of 9.37% compared to 2013, while i welcome this, particularly for the management of the union's public finances and the fight against the phenomenon of 'agentization of the union'. the report also welcomes the fact that the emsa, like other maritime agencies, is involved in the management of the migrant crisis, which will, in the light of the commission's policy guidelines, lead to the arrival of migrants on the european continent. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ parliament noted in fy2014 that the court of auditors had obtained assurances that the centre's annual accounts for fy2014 were reliable and that operations were regular. it should also be noted that the financial management for the financial year 2014 was exemplary as it did not give rise to any comments from the court of auditors, which is why i voted in favour of discharge. the european maritime safety agency has sought significant synergies with other agencies, in particular to set up joint operational actions specialised in the maritime field, to prevent disasters at sea and to coordinate the activity of the european coast guard in the framework of the cooperation of the coast guard functions envisaged by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the report regrets the reduction in staff and budget cuts at the emea, which is a good thing. i am opposed to the multiplication of european agencies and the extension of their powers, because this encourages the increase of the budgets for them. in addition, the emsa, like other maritime agencies, is responsible for managing the refugee crisis. the report welcomes this, even though it distorts its mission. given the current migration policies, this will only lead to fostering illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: increased financial resources and synergy between maritime agencies will only encourage illegal immigration, given current migration policies.
in writing. ‒ the emsa, like other maritime agencies, is meant to deal with the refugee crisis. the report welcomes this in paragraph 18, even though it distorts its mission. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european maritime safety agency (emsa). in 2014, the appropriations of the emea were reduced by 9,37% compared to 2013. i welcome this because i am opposed to agencyisation, i.e. the increase in the number of european agencies and the extension of their powers, which encourage an increase in the budget allocated to these agencies. i therefore oppose the report's regret about the reduction in staff and budget cuts at the emea. in addition, the emsa, like other maritime agencies, is called upon to manage the refugee crisis. the report welcomes this, even though it distorts its mission. increased financial resources and synergy between maritime agencies can only lead, in the light of current migration policies, to fostering illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which gives discharge. increased financial resources and synergy between maritime agencies can only lead, in the light of current migration policies, to fostering illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it concerns the european maritime safety agency (emsa), whose main task is to ensure the safety of the european maritime area. it seems to be holding its own in the budget line, which is very good. on the positive side, its appropriations fell by 9.37% in 2014. however, despite these financial advances, the emea is increasingly focused on managing the migration crisis. the policies aim to increase its funding and encourage its cooperation with other maritime agencies, with the aim of managing the massive arrival of migrants. these measures are deplorable because they will create a breath of fresh air for immigration.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. we are opposed to agencyisation and welcome the cuts in the budget for the emea, contrary to the report which regrets this. the mission of the emsa is to manage the refugee crisis, which distorts its mission. we oppose the increase in financial resources and the synergy between maritime agencies which, in the light of current migration policies, can only lead to the promotion of illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i think that given the current migration policies, the increase in financial means for maritime agencies is unsustainable. this can only serve to increase the expatriation of emigrants to europe. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not critical enough and calls for an increase in the resources allocated to migrants. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european maritime safety agency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of esma, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the emsa, like other maritime agencies, is dedicated to managing the refugee crisis. the report welcomes this (point 18), even though it distorts its mission. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the european union budget voted by the parliament is ambitious and realistic in view of the challenges ahead and the limited resources at our disposal. through discharge procedures, we make considerable and repeated efforts to increase the transparency of the european budget for citizens. as regards the discharge for the european maritime safety agency (emsa), having examined and approved the reliability, regularity and legality of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, which saw its budget reduced by 9% compared to 2013, my colleagues and i also commended the agency for its policy of seeking potential cooperation and synergies with other agencies (in particular on the refugee crisis) with a view to improving the performance of its missions. we call, however, for the rapid increase in the financial, material and human resources needed by the agency to carry out its tasks and help manage this crisis, which is unprecedented for the union. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report says that the aesm, like other maritime agencies, is meant to deal with the refugee crisis. the report welcomes this, even though it distorts its mission. increased financial resources and synergy between maritime agencies can only lead, in the light of current migration policies, to fostering illegal immigration by increasing the repatriation of migrants to europe. i vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of this agency without much ambition, when the report was once again too conciliatory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge to be given to the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) for the implementation of the budget. the report notes that internal standards have been developed to increase the efficiency and availability of its services; the agency would have made sure to move firmly towards a paperless working mode, through a platform for sharing and storing documents on computers, to better comply with environmental standards. however, i voted against this report because it makes no mention of the exact role of enisa, its effectiveness, or the value of investing more than eur 9 million per year in it, when other similar national bodies already exist in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to be given to the european union agency for network and information security (enisa). the report of the committee on budgetary control gives little information about its exact role or its effectiveness. the report acknowledges the efforts made to improve the efficiency of enisa's administrative management: progress towards phasing out paper and thus having an eco-responsible working approach; or good management of conflicts of interest procedures. however, i do not see the point in funding this agency with 9 million euros, when the national agencies already have the means and the capacity to carry out this task. i also doubt the relevance of the 0.39% increase in the budget compared to 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report does not mention any reason as to the exact role, the interest of its action and even less that of investing 9 million euros a year when national bodies of the same nature already exist in the member states of the union. i therefore voted against the report on discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for network and information security has an annual budget of eur 9.7 million for 2014. however, despite several remarks concerning the internal functioning of the agency, no mention is made of its exact role, its efficiency, or the value of investing more than eur 9 million per year in this type of device, when other national bodies already exist in the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: no mention is made of its exact role, its efficiency, or the value of investing more than eur 9 million per year in this type of agency, when other national bodies already exist in the member states.
in writing. ‒ there is no mention in this report of its exact role, its efficiency or the value of investing more than eur 9 million per year in an agency that overlaps with other national bodies already existing in the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european union agency for network and information security. the commission has received an annual budget of eur 9,7 million for 2014, an increase of 0,39% compared to 2013. the report makes no mention of its exact role, its efficiency or the value of investing more than eur 9 million per year in this type of agency, when other national bodies already exist in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. there is no mention of its exact role, its efficiency, or the value of investing more than eur 9 million a year in this type of agency, when other national bodies already exist in the member states.
in writing. ‒ at first glance, the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) seems to have managed its budget well in 2014. it has deployed a number of measures to improve its internal functioning, such as the shift towards digital work, in compliance with environmental standards. in addition, the report shows that the organisation is well organised internally in terms of conflict of interest management, staff management, etc. despite all these positive aspects, it is still absurd to spend nine million euros on the creation of the european union, when the member states have similar national bodies. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the european union agency for network and information security has an annual budget of eur 9,7 million for 2014, an increase of 0,39% compared to 2013. we oppose this discharge, which makes no mention in the report of the exact role of enisa, its efficiency, or the value of investing more than 9 million euros a year in this type of agency, when other national bodies already exist in the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the budgetary needs of the future are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the exact role of this european agency, its competence and the value of investing €9 million per year in it are not reported; the commission has already set up a body of this kind in the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on discharge for the 2014 budget for the european union agency for network and information security. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ there is no mention of the exact role of this agency, its efficiency, or the value of investing more than eur 9 million per year in this type of agency, when other national bodies already exist in the member states. i am therefore voting against the discharge and against the report, in the interests of the sound use of public money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa) in 2014. enisa is a centre of expertise in cybersecurity in europe. it helps the union and the member states to be better equipped and prepared to prevent, detect and respond to information security problems. in the face of the growing cybercriminal threat, enisa is called upon to play a more important role in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for this agency which has two seats, which generates unnecessary expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency was established in 2004. under the pretext of ensuring the safety of european railways and allowing the interoperability of rail systems in europe, this agency is above all a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose in the member states the liberalisation of rail both in the field of freight (already done) and passengers (to come with the fourth railway package). the agency is intended to become the sole body to issue technical certificates and commercial authorizations in all member states, a task previously reserved for national agencies, and its decisions will be binding on the commercial authorities of the member states. i cannot vote in favour of a report which promotes a new organisation of the railway market in europe to the detriment of both employees and users by favouring the regulation of the railway market and the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the discharge for the european railway agency (era). this agency, under the pretext of ensuring the safety of the european rail network, is merely the european commission's arm in forcing the total liberalisation of rail, both in the field of freight and in the field of passages. it is not necessary to recall the consequences of this liberalization on the british railway network during the famous thatcher reforms: higher prices, higher train accidents, which led the british authorities to partially renationalize the network. it therefore seems dangerous to leave the agency the monopoly of issuing technical certifications and commercial authorizations, which will eventually lead to any railway company approved by the afe being able to obtain contracts in all member states, without taking into account the different national economic and security interests. finally, the operation of the tab is far too expensive, in particular because of the existence of two seats.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed in principle to the existence of a european railway agency which merely imposes the liberalisation of the railway market. as such, the agency is intended to become the sole body responsible for issuing technical certifications and commercial authorizations, thus replacing the national agencies. from now on, any railway company accredited by the european railway agency will be able to obtain contracts in all member states. nothing but the ideology of the european commission justifies the allocation of a budget of eur 25 715 600 to such an agency. i voted against the report proposing to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency was established in 2004. under the pretext of ensuring the safety of european railways and of enabling the interoperability of rail systems in europe, this agency is above all a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose in the member states the liberalisation of rail both in the area of freight and passengers. the agency is intended to become the sole body to issue technical certificates and commercial authorizations in all member states, a task which previously belonged exclusively to the national agencies. from now on, any railway company approved by the afe will be able to obtain contracts in all member states without the afe being able to object. it should also be noted that afe has two headquarters, one in valenciennes and the other in lille, which generates additional operating costs. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this agency is above all a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose on the member states the liberalisation of rail both in the area of freight (already done) and passengers (to be done).
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of ensuring the safety of european railways and allowing the interoperability of rail systems in europe, this agency is above all a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose on the member states the liberalisation of rail both in the area of freight and passengers: this political objective is not acceptable and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european railway agency (era). the european railway agency was established in 2004. under the pretext of ensuring the safety of european railways and allowing the interoperability of rail systems in europe, this agency is above all a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose in the member states the liberalisation of rail both in the field of freight (already done) and passengers (to be done). the agency is intended to become the sole body to issue technical certificates and commercial authorizations in all member states, a task which previously belonged exclusively to the national agencies. from now on, any railway company approved by the afe will be able to obtain contracts in all member states without the afe being able to object. it should also be noted that afe has two headquarters (one in valenciennes and the other in lille), which generates additional operating costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. under the pretext of ensuring the safety of european railways and allowing the interoperability of rail systems in europe, this agency is above all a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose in the member states the liberalisation of rail both in the field of freight (already done) and passengers (to be done).
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency (era), set up in 2004, is a perfect example of the european union's encroachment on the sovereignty of states. as a useful tool for the commission, the agency has several tasks, including the task of imposing rail liberalisation on the member states. to this end, it has set about taking over the freight sector (by issuing technical certificates and commercial authorizations). this control is intended to extend to contracts to be awarded by the tfa, without the twenty-eight sovereign countries being able to raise objections. the report proposes to grant the discharge for 2014 to the agency. that is unacceptable, so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a decision and against the motion for a resolution. the european railway agency is a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose on the member states the liberalisation of rail transport, both for freight (already achieved) and for passengers (to be achieved). we are opposed to the commission becoming the sole body to issue technical certificates and commercial authorizations in all the member states, a task which previously belonged exclusively to the national agencies. from now on, any railway company approved by the afe will be able to obtain contracts in all member states without the afe being able to object.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european railway agency (era) for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the agency was set up in 2004 under the pretext of security. through it, rail transport is doomed to liberalism. today it is already handling cargo and will soon be handling passengers. from now on, any railway company approved by the afe will be able to obtain contracts in all member states without any objection from the latter. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european railway agency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the tea, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency was established in 2004. under the pretext of ensuring the safety of european railways and allowing the interoperability of rail systems in europe, this agency is above all a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose in the member states the liberalisation of rail both in the field of freight (already done) and passengers (to be done). the agency is intended to become the sole body to issue technical certificates and commercial authorizations in all member states, a task which previously belonged exclusively to the national agencies. from now on, any railway company approved by the afe will be able to obtain contracts in all member states without any objection from the latter. in addition, afe has two headquarters (one in valenciennes and the other in lille), which generates additional operating costs. i am fundamentally opposed to railway liberalization and i shall vote against the report and the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the european union budget voted by the parliament is ambitious and realistic in view of the challenges ahead and the limited resources at our disposal. through discharge procedures, we make considerable and repeated efforts to increase the transparency of the european budget for citizens. in this sense, this discharge calls for a more performance and results-based approach to union spending, to improve both the efficiency of the european budget and its readability for citizens. as regards the discharge for the european railway agency (era), my colleagues and i, while reviewing and approving the reliability, regularity and legality of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, made several recommendations. with the adoption of the technical pillar of the fourth railway package during the same voting session, the agency's role will be strengthened (including becoming a one-stop shop for vehicle authorisation and safety certificates). the report therefore calls for the rapid provision of additional financial, material and human resources to enable it to carry out its new tasks. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the agency is a powerful tool in the hands of the commission to impose rail liberalisation in the member states both in the area of freight (already done) and passenger (to be done). it should also be noted that afe has two headquarters (one in valenciennes and the other in lille), which generates additional operating costs. i vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for this agency, for which the report says that the objectives are unclear but without drawing any consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the implementation of its budget. the report also mentions an increase in the agency's budget of 18% compared to 2013, which the report does not adequately justify, arguing for example that the authority inherited many it contracts from its predecessor, the committee of european securities regulators. the commission's internal audit service also notes a lack of follow-up to its past recommendations. the mixed financial arrangements in place to receive contributions from national authorities are still unclear and too administrative. i could not vote in favour of this report which merely calls for an improvement in the management of the authority, without specifying objectives, dates or measures to be implemented.
in writing. ‒ i was unable to vote for the discharge to be given to the european securities and markets authority (esma) for several reasons. firstly, the commission's own internal audit service questioned the lack of follow-up to its previous recommendations, in particular on the mixed financial arrangements, which allow contributions from the competent national authorities. in addition, the increase of 18% in the emff budget compared to 2013 seems to me unjustified, even if the pretext is the extension of its powers and mission as a result of the financial crisis. it is surprising that, while hiding behind this pretext, the agency has not cleaned up, particularly with regard to the many it contracts awarded by its predecessor, the european committee of it regulators. finally, no details are given as to the objectives to be achieved by the agency in order to improve its administrative management, which is recognised as weak.
in writing. ‒ the emcf has a budget that is 18% higher than in 2013, an increase that confirms the commission's desire to create a unified european financial market, but is too limited to properly carry out a task of regulating financial markets at european level. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to recover from the injury suffered by the union industry. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to give discharge to the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the year 2014. esma shall enhance cooperation and coordination between national financial market regulators and ensure the application of financial legislation in the member states. it was established in 2011 to replace the committee of european securities regulators. the agency is part of the european system of financial supervision, the esfs, along with the european banking authority (eba) and the insurance and occupational pensions authority (iorpa). in the wake of the 2008 economic and financial crisis, these authorities were established to restore confidence in the european financial market by ensuring its integrity.
in writing. ‒ the european securities and markets authority had a 2014 budget of €33.2 million, representing an increase of 18% compared to 2013. this would be justified by the extension of its remit, its role having been increased with the financial crisis. in addition, the mixed financial arrangements in place to receive contributions from the competent national authorities on the subjects it deals with are still unclear and too burdensome administratively. the report therefore calls on the commission to ensure that the management of the authority is optimized as soon as possible, without, of course, specifying objectives, deadlines or possible consequences. i therefore voted against this one.
in writing. ‒ votes against: the report therefore asks the commission to ensure that the management of the authority is optimized as soon as possible, without, of course, specifying objectives, deadlines or possible consequences.
in writing. ‒ the report makes a negative finding: the commission's internal audit service found during a visit that its past recommendations had not been followed up; the mixed financial provisions are still unclear and too administrative. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european securities and markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european securities and markets authority (esma). the european securities and markets authority had a 2014 budget of eur 33,2 million, representing an increase of 18% compared to 2013. this would be justified by the extension of its remit, its role having been increased with the financial crisis. the report justifies this increase by stating that the authority inherited many it contracts from its predecessor, the committee of european securities regulators. it is surprising that they have not been cancelled, corrected or reduced. the commission's internal audit service reportedly found a lack of follow-up to its past recommendations. the mixed financial arrangements in place to receive contributions from the competent national authorities on the subjects it deals with are still unclear and too burdensome in terms of administration. the report therefore calls on the commission to ensure that the management of the authority is optimized as soon as possible, without, of course, specifying objectives, deadlines or possible consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the european securities and markets authority had a 2014 budget of eur 33,2 million, representing an increase of 18% compared to 2013. the report justifies this increase by stating that the authority inherited many it contracts from its predecessor, the committee of european securities regulators. it's amazing they haven't been canceled, corrected or reduced.
in writing. ‒ the european securities and markets authority (esma) is based on two main objectives, namely to improve investor protection and to promote the stability and smooth functioning of financial markets. during the financial crisis, it acquired a significant role, which increased its budget by 18% between 2013 and 2014. the text, which attempts to demonstrate, despite this increase, the efforts of the emcf to achieve savings, cannot deny its lack of budgetary rigor. the commission's audit service clearly denounces the lack of clarity and the administrative burden of its internal functioning. the rapporteur proposes that the commission should rectify its errors in order to remedy the situation. however, this proposal is only a passing suggestion, which does not impose any time requirements or objectives to be achieved. for all these reasons, i have of course voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report calls for discharge to be given to the budget of the european securities and markets authority, which has been increased by 18% compared to 2013. this would be justified by the legacy of many computer contracts signed by his predecessor: we are surprised that they have not been cancelled, corrected or reduced. the report calls on the commission to ensure that the management of the authority is optimized as soon as possible, following the lack of follow-up to the recommendations of the commission's internal audit service, which we welcome, but it does not specify the objectives, deadlines and possible consequences.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ improvement in management is clearly needed according to the report. there is a lack of clear objectives. however, the man does not learn from this. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on discharge for the 2014 budget for the european securities and markets authority. discharge is granted, the budget of eur 33 267 143, up 18% due to the new tasks entrusted to the authority, having been implemented without significant error. the authority must, however, make progress in reducing its payment delays. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the commission's internal audit service had noted during a visit a lack of follow-up to its past recommendations. the mixed financial arrangements in place to receive contributions from the competent national authorities on the subjects it deals with are still unclear and too burdensome in terms of administration. the report therefore calls on the commission to ensure that the management of the authority is optimized as soon as possible, without, of course, specifying objectives, deadlines or possible consequences. the agency is clearly mismanaged. i am voting against the report and against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) in 2014. the objective of esma is to preserve the stability of european financial markets and to fill gaps in financial supervision. the emcf helps to strengthen coordination between national financial market regulators and to ensure the harmonised application of european financial legislation in the countries of the union. esma plays a key role in promoting market transparency in order to protect consumers of financial products.
in writing. ‒ not enough transparency on staff, increased administrative expenditure. i therefore voted against the discharge of this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this eu agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report, which calls for a discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf), notes an increase in administrative expenditure between 2013 and 2014, at a time when the union is calling for budgetary restraint; the court of auditors also noted in its report that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was too low and called for greater transparency in the accounts and greater neutrality of staff. again, this report is not critical enough in view of the problems it identifies; i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for 2014 to the european training foundation, not only because i contest its powers, but also because of its administrative and budgetary management. with rates of implementation of payment appropriations being largely disappointing (94.80%) and the court of auditors' administrative management being called into question, in particular because of the lack of transparency and the lack of neutrality of the staff, it is surprising that the rapporteur should have called for a vote on discharge. i also question the legitimacy of this agency in 'spreading good practice' in training and apprenticeship to the eu's neighbouring countries. firstly, because this mission is part of the enlargement policy of the union, which i contest; the european union is not only a political force, but also a new example of the union's pretence to substitute itself for the member states and other sovereign nations, including in public service missions, through agencies or foundations. if the promotion of vocational training is one of my main concerns in the european parliament, i will not allow the technocrats in brussels to impose their standards, inside or outside the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european training foundation (etf). the report notes that an amount of eur 2 618 494 was carried over from the financial year 2013 and that eur 85 129 (3,25%) of appropriations carried over from 2013 were cancelled. the text notes that the cancellations of appropriations carried over from 2013 were high for title i (staff expenditure), at 15,9%, and for title ii (administrative expenditure), at 7,6%, indicating an overestimation of financial needs.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a quit for the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european training foundation (etf). i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the basic text, the court of auditors calls for more transparency and neutrality among staff. the report is very light and uncritical in view of the problems it raises - cautiously, it must be said. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european training foundation. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the etf, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report notes a lack of transparency and neutrality of staff and several serious problems. in these circumstances, i shall vote against this lax report and against discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of this agency whose report highlights a lack of transparency without advocating improvement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the budgetary authority for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa). the report calls on the schengen countries to increase their funding for the agency, which i cannot accept, given the shortcomings of its management: it has two seats, whereas one would be more than enough and would save the budget from being overburdened. similarly, it still lacks transparency despite the establishment of financial transparency systems. i therefore opposed his being given that discharge.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote for the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. while i welcome the fact that its budget has been reduced by 3,2% in 2014 compared to 2013, i first of all disagree with the proposal made by the rapporteur of the parliament that the schengen member states benefiting from the eurodac fingerprint management system should increase their financial contribution to the agency. as i have said on a number of occasions, i am opposed to the european union's 'agentization' of public service missions, particularly when the member states are better placed to fulfil this mission. i also note that the report has raised the issue of a still-failing conflict of interest management system in this agency, just as the rapporteur is concerned about the lack of implementation of previous recommendations, particularly on transparency in administrative management. finally, although i welcome the establishment of a seat for the agency in strasbourg, i doubt whether it is appropriate to have two seats, since there is another one in estonia.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the schengen countries benefiting from the eurodac (fingerprinting) system to contribute more to the funding of this agency. this alone justifies voting against the european parliament's report granting discharge, because it is intended to strengthen the schengen system, which should instead be deconstructed. i did.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice has a 2014 budget of eur 59.3 million. this represents a decrease of 3,2% compared to 2013. the report calls for the schengen countries benefiting from the eurodac (fingerprinting) system to contribute more to the financing of the agency. in addition, despite financial transparency systems in place for its management staff, the agency still lacks transparency in its management, as not all past recommendations have been implemented. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: despite financial transparency systems in place for its management staff, who are subject to strict declarations of interest, the agency still lacks transparency in its management, as all past recommendations have not been implemented.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the schengen countries benefiting from the eurodac (fingerprinting) system to contribute more to the funding of the agency. this alone leads me to reject the discharge requested in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the budget decreased by 3,2% compared to 2013. the report calls for the schengen countries benefiting from the eurodac (fingerprinting) system to contribute more to the financing of the agency. this alone leads me to refuse the discharge requested in this report. the report calls on the agency to improve its nascent conflict of interest management system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. finally, despite financial transparency systems for its management staff, which are subject to strict declarations of interest, the agency still lacks transparency in its management, as not all past recommendations have been implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. despite financial transparency systems for its management staff, which are subject to strict declarations of interest, the agency still lacks transparency in its management, as not all past recommendations have been implemented.
in writing. ‒ the agency aims to support the implementation of eu policies in the fields of justice and home affairs by managing large-scale information systems. it is financed by the european union. however, the report expressed the wish that the schengen member states, which therefore have the eurodac (fingerprint management) system, should participate more in its financing. i cannot accept that this wish will be fulfilled, because eu-lisa is far from being an exemplary agency. several observations confirm this. its conflict of interest management system is in its infancy, the agency lacks transparency and has difficulty following past recommendations. therefore, to grant him discharge for 2014 is irresponsible. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report calls for the schengen countries and beneficiaries of the eurodac (fingerprint management) system to contribute more to the financing of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom. we are against it. despite financial transparency systems for its management staff, which are subject to strict declarations of interest, the agency still lacks transparency in its management, as not all past recommendations have been implemented.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european agency for the operational management of information systems for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the basic text, the court of auditors calls for more transparency and neutrality among staff. the report is very light and not very critical in view of the problems it raises. i must say, i have been very careful. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. this agency manages sis ii, the vis and eurodac. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of lisa, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) in 2014. eu-lisa contributes to the efforts of the eu member states to make europe safer by providing technological support. the agency operates large-scale integrated it systems that ensure the maintenance of internal security in the schengen countries and allow schengen countries to exchange visa-related data. the role of this agency is crucial in ensuring the free movement of europeans within the union without compromising europe's security.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for this agency, which considers the report to be too conciliatory in view of the problems raised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ in addition to the fact that the report notes an increase in committed appropriations in 2014 compared to 2013, which were also carried over to 2015, it also argues for a review of the fight against corruption, which raises some doubts about the integrity of the agency's staff, and therefore about its effectiveness. i therefore voted against this report, which lacks any concrete resolutions capable of resolving the problems identified.
in writing. ‒ i am not sure that the parliament's report calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european agency for safety and health at work, particularly because of the problems identified in the report. when we know that eu-osha prides itself on 'ensuring that europeans have safer, healthier and more productive workplaces', we can wonder about its ability to carry out its mission: recall that, within the european parliament itself, two drivers were convinced of having pro-daesh propaganda material. if the agency cannot even guarantee security within the european institutions, it is highly unlikely that it will be able to do so outside. moreover, from a strictly budgetary point of view, there is an increase in the appropriations committed compared to 2013 and carried over to 2015: the states required to start a budgetary diet will appreciate it. finally, the fact that the rapporteur recommends a point on the fight against corruption seems to call into question the very staff of the agency. for all these reasons, it was inconceivable that i should vote for discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha). the resolution notes that the level of committed appropriations carried over to the financial year 2015 for title ii (administrative expenditure) reached an amount of eur 443 412 (34%) and that an amount of eur 4 384 922 was carried over from the financial year 2013. questions may also be raised about the rate of implementation of payment appropriations, which is 75.59%. the resolution is not critical enough, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report serves the agency by requesting an assessment of the fight against corruption. this raises questions about the quality of the agency's staff. however, the report is not sufficiently critical. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european agency for safety and health at work. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of osha, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (euosha) in 2014. eu-osha contributes to the collection, analysis and dissemination of information to those concerned with safety and health at work. eu-osha plays a key role in ensuring that european citizens have safer, healthier and more productive workplaces, which benefits businesses, workers and public authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of this agency, whose report is, to say the least, weak.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the euratom supply agency (eaa) for the implementation of its budget: the amount of its budget for 2014 eur 104 000 raises the question of the efficiency of the agency at european level. apart from the fact that it points out a lack of precision in the accounts, the report remains too succinct to constitute a serious analysis. i cannot support such a poorly researched analysis, and therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen not to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget of the euratom supply agency (eaa). the fact that the amount of its budget is as low in 2014 as in 2013 calls into question the relevance of the existence of this agency, which has, as we recall, originally the mission of ensuring a regular and fair supply of minerals, raw materials and special fissile materials in the european union. it should also be noted that the rapporteur considered it appropriate to ask the agency once again to include in its future management reports a section devoted to transparency and integrity; the commission has also proposed that the agency should be given the task of ensuring that the agency's activities are carried out in accordance with the principles of the european union's policy on the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on discharge because it is far too succinct and does not allow a proper analysis of the implementation of the 2014 budget. the rapporteur also calls for the future management reports to include actions reserved for transparency and integrity, suggesting that the safeguards in place to prevent corruption or conflicts of interest are insufficient. i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency, which was eur 104 000 in 2014. this is a rather small amount which in itself raises the question of the efficiency of the agency at european level. in addition to some critical remarks on management, since the payment of the budget comes directly from the commission, the report again calls for a section on transparency and integrity to be included in the next management reports of the agency, suggesting that the agency deserves to become more efficient. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: the report calls for a section on transparency and integrity to be included in the agency's future management reports, suggesting that the agency deserves to become more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the euratom supply agency (eaa). the annual budget of the euratom supply agency was eur 104 000 in 2014. this is similar to the amount in 2013. this is a fairly small amount, and it is enough to ensure the efficiency of the agency at european level. apart from a few critical remarks on the management, since the payment of the budget came directly from the commission, there are no particular remarks to be made. while agreeing to recognise an appropriate risk management system, the report calls for a transparency and integrity section to be included in future management reports of the agency, suggesting that the agency deserves to become more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. while agreeing to recognise an appropriate risk management system, the report calls for a transparency and integrity section to be included in future management reports of the agency, suggesting that the agency deserves to become more efficient.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. however, it is supported by a small budget (104 000 euros in 2014), which is proof of its insignificance among the european institutions. the rapporteur, however, does not question the real capacity of this body too much and merely praises its good internal management. however, he cannot help but recall the importance of transparency and integrity, and in fact mentions the imperfections of the eea.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the euratom supply agency (eaa) for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the european union's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ some criticisms are made of the management of accounts. but the report seems to me too short to be taken seriously. it's hard to validate a study like this. i also note that there is a call for transparency and integrity to be added to future reports, which suggests that better results would be required. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report presents an analysis that is too sketchy. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a ruling on the 2014 discharge for the euratom supply agency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of the euratom supply agency, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that its accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the overly conciliatory report does not reflect the problems raised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the implementation of its budget. however, it is not sufficiently critical of the problems identified, and does not mention the fact that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations is very low, or that the parliament's report has raised concerns about the neutrality of staff and called for more transparency and awareness of staff on conflicts of interest and integrity. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) is the perfect example of a european attempt to technocratize political decision-making through public policies. the foundation's mission is to 'contribute by means of research to the development of social and labour policies'. it seems to be replacing not only the governments of the member states but also national experts, who seem to be better placed to guide decision-makers in the light of the different national economic and social circumstances. the report also mentions a shockingly low rate of implementation of payment appropriations, at only 79.80%. the rapporteur also calls for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and for the commission to be able to provide the necessary information to the member states. this is further evidence that this outsourcing of public policy development is endangering the quality and neutrality of the public service. i therefore naturally voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound). the report notes that the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2015 was 53,7% for title iii (operational expenditure). these carry-overs were mainly multiannual projects, but the text stresses that in order to accord the multiannual nature of its projects to the budgetary principle of annuality, the foundation should communicate to the court, at the beginning of each financial year, the amount of the planned carry-overs. the report also notes with concern that only about half of the foundation's board of directors have their cvs and declarations of interest published on the foundation's website.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the european union's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ eurofound staff have been reported as lacking in neutrality. i would also like to note that there is a request for transparency and staff integrity measures to be included in future reports, which suggests that better results would be required. the text is not sufficiently critical in view of the known problems. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of eurofound, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. - i refused to vote for the discharge for this badly managed and badly organized agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it complies with the recommendations on financial management made by the court of auditors in previous years.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is the european agency responsible for strengthening judicial cooperation between member states. despite eurojust's poor financial health a €1,800,000 deficit in the budget for salaries and clear functional shortcomings, such as the overlap of responsibilities between the administrative director and the eurojust college, the report gives a discharge on the implementation of eurojust's 2014 budget. i therefore had no choice but to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the granting of discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget of the european judicial cooperation unit (eurojost). the agency is part of the attempt to europeanise criminal law, as its mission is to 'strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities in investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder and organised crime and to bring criminals to justice in a timely and effective manner'. the aim is therefore to bring the national judiciary into gradual submission. the report also points to a very poor budget management as the rapporteur notes a level of carryovers of appropriations for title iii of 35%, which represents an increase of 2% compared to 2013. administrative management and, by extension, staff management are also at issue, with no binding internal rules for the protection of whistleblowers; or, alternatively, an overlap of responsibilities between the administrative director and the eurojust college.
in writing. ‒ the report deplores the fact that the budget for wages is in deficit (eur 1 800 000), which has reduced operating expenditure, pending a corrective budget which has reinjected eur 1 200 000. it notes that only 32.8% of the grants have been paid. it also notes that the problem of overlapping responsibilities between the administrative director and the college of eurojust has still not been corrected. despite eurojust's poor financial health and clear functional shortcomings, the report gives a discharge on the implementation of the 2014 budget. i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the mission of eurojust is to strengthen judicial cooperation between member states. its budget increased by 4.04%, while its rate of implementation of payment appropriations fell by 2.34%. the rapporteur calls on eurojust to improve its procedures and practices in order to safeguard the union's financial interests, which speaks volumes about its poor financial health and clear operational deficiencies. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 eu budget to eurojust, the european agency responsible for strengthening judicial cooperation between member states. the committee regretted that the budget for wages was in deficit, which had reduced operating expenditure, pending an amending budget which reinstated eur 1 200 000. it notes that only 32.8% of the grants have been paid. the report also notes that the problem of overlapping responsibilities between the administrative director and the college of eurojust is still not resolved. despite eurojust's poor financial health and clear functional shortcomings, the report gives a discharge on the implementation of eurojust's 2014 budget. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: the report calls on eurojust to provide the discharge authority with updated information on the implementation of the competences framework to meet the professional needs of staff. it calls on eurojust to improve its procedures and practices aimed at safeguarding the financial interests of the union and to actively contribute to a results-based discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ the report grants discharge to the budget, but notes real dysfunctions, such as the problem of overlapping responsibilities between the administrative director and the eurojust college, which is still not corrected. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the administrative director of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to be given to the european judicial cooperation unit (eurojust). the court's report notes that the financial impact of the salary adjustments and the increase in the correction coefficient was not incorporated in the initial budget for the financial year 2014, and regrets that the budget deficit for remuneration of around eur 1 800 000 required temporary reductions in operational expenditure and significant transfers from the administrative and operational budget lines at the end of the financial year. an amending budget had to allocate an additional amount of eur 1 200 000 to eurojust. eurojust also provides grants from its own budget to support the joint investigation teams; only 32,8% was paid at the end of the year, mainly due to the budget implementation dependent on the beneficiaries and the reimbursement requests they submitted, which threatens the budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ as the european agency for the strengthening of judicial cooperation between member states (eurojust), it should have an exemplary management of its budget. the report laments a number of problems. the negative aspects include the deficit in the budget for salaries, the overlap of responsibilities between the administrative director and the eurojust college, and poor data updating. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly managed. i am categorically against this proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. we oppose the discharge on the implementation of eurojust's 2014 budget, which the report supports despite its poor financial health (a deficit of eur 1 800 000 in the salary budget, 32.8% of grants paid) and obvious functional shortcomings (e.g. overlapping responsibilities between the administrative director and the college of eurojust).
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the budgetary needs for the future are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is given discharge in the decision and motion for a resolution, while the institution is showing functional disorder and budgetary mismanagement. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 discharge for eurojust, which was set up to strengthen the fight against and cooperation against serious forms of organised crime, in particular cross-border crime. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of eurojust, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) in 2014. eurojust assists the authorities of the member states in cooperating in the fight against serious forms of organised crime affecting more than one member state. eurojust is a key eu agency that allows it to order investigations and prosecutions in at least two countries, to help resolve conflicts of jurisdiction and to facilitate the development and implementation of eu legal instruments such as european arrest warrants and freezing and confiscation orders.
in writing. ‒ we need to increase europol's budgetary means to fight cross-border criminal activities more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for europol, which is facing serious budgetary management problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it complies with the recommendations on financial management made by the court of auditors in previous years.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european police office (europol) for the implementation of its budget; europol is the body responsible for facilitating crime-fighting operations within the european union. while the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable, it nevertheless identified several problems: for example, the cancellation rate of committed appropriations carried over from 2013 was high (22%) or an increase of 13% compared to the previous year. the report also calls on the office to strictly apply the discretion and exclusion measures in public procurement to avoid conflicts of interest, and asks the office to strengthen enforcement measures, including checks on declarations of financial interests, raising doubts about the integrity of the agency's staff and the conflicts of interest that appear to exist. i therefore voted against this report in view of its many shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ once again, the cont report finds significant shortcomings but fails to take the necessary measures. i personally voted against the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for the european police office (europol). the report also notes that the cancellation rate of committed appropriations carried over from 2013 was high (22%) and was 13% higher than in the previous year. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption. in short, the office's own staff are therefore implicated, especially since the report also raises various problems relating to the fight against corruption. another failed attempt to europeanise security policy.
in writing. ‒ the european police office is an administration responsible for cooperation between member states in operations to combat crime in the european union. there is only one reason to vote against the discharge a fortiori for a police administration: the staff are not sufficiently aware of the need to prevent conflicts of interest! the rapporteur's remarks are serious and may suggest that he is questioning the integrity and probity of the agency's staff. i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 discharge for the european police office (europol). the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts were reliable. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 were significantly intensified and resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,70%, indicating that the commitments were made in a timely manner. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 93%, an increase of 2.80% compared with the previous year.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014. it is the body responsible for facilitating crime-fighting operations within the european union. the court of auditors notes that the cancellation rate of committed appropriations carried over from 2013 was high (22%) and represented an increase of 13% compared to the previous year. the report also calls on the office to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement in order to avoid conflicts of interest, which is essential to safeguard the financial interests of the union. the text also calls on the office to strengthen its enforcement measures, including checks on declarations of financial interests, and to increase the awareness of its staff. these comments raise doubts about the integrity of the agency's staff. i also voted against.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european police office (europol) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to be given to the european police office (europol). the court's report highlights in particular that the cancellation rate of committed appropriations carried over from 2013 was high (22%) and up by 13% compared to the previous year. the resolution therefore calls on the office to maintain the commitment appropriations carried over to the following financial year at the lowest possible level in future, 'in order to better meet its obligations in terms of transparency and accountability'. the office is also requested to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, and to apply the exclusion criteria in order to exclude undertakings in the event of a conflict of interest, which is essential to safeguard the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the european police office experienced many problems in its budget management. the cancellation rates of committed appropriations carried over were up by 13% compared to 2013. in addition, it has shown a lack of rigour in the management of conflicts of interest and control of financial declarations of interest. finally, europol rarely publishes its consolidated annual activity report, which poses a problem of transparency. the rapporteur does indeed put forward solutions to correct these deviations, but they do not justify granting discharge for her 2014 budget. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this report calls for discharge to be given to the european police office (europol) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. we regret that the cancellation rate of committed appropriations carried over from 2013 is high (22%) and that the application of discretionary and exclusionary measures in public procurement, in order to avoid conflicts of interest, is not more stringent. the text regrets that only a general report (a report by europol) is published on the agency's website.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european police office (europol) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ there are several management problems. in addition, the comments on declarations of conflicts of interest raise further concerns about the integrity of the staff. the text is not sufficiently critical in view of the known problems. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to give a ruling on the 2014 discharge for europol. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of europol, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the european bureau for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on europol to increase staff awareness of the conflict of interest policy. these comments raise doubts about the integrity of the agency's staff and the conflicts of interest that seem to exist. in addition, the agency is required to publish its consolidated annual activity report regularly, a request for transparency that reflects the problems encountered within europol. i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report is not critical enough in view of the many malfunctions identified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it follows the recommendations of previous years on financial management by sharing some of its services with other eu agencies, which allows economies of scale.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the budgetary execution of the european union agency for fundamental rights, whose purpose is to provide the institutions and member states of the european union with assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights when they implement community law. here too the court of auditors points out several problems, particularly with regard to the rate of cancellation of committed appropriations. the text also notes that the agency has been brought to court on several occasions for cases of ill-treatment of whistleblowers and highlights the statement of the european ombudsman that the agency was guilty of maladministration by refusing to carry out a proper and thorough investigation into the complainant's allegations in a case of moral harassment. i cannot therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. it is surprising that parliament's report is in favour of this granting, given the many malfunctions it echoes. the commission notes that the fra has not provided any information on the actual implementation of the budget, but that the fra has provided information on the implementation of the budget. but, more importantly, the agency that is supposed to teach lessons in human rights has been sued several times for mistreating whistleblowers! a cruel lack of integrity which was also pointed out by the european ombudsman, who reported that the agency was guilty of refusing to investigate allegations of moral harassment. the fra, which wants to play the role of 'justice' for fundamental rights and to scold the member states, would do better to focus on recommendations on the fight against corruption within its own ranks.
in writing. ‒ the fundamental rights agency's mission is to provide the union's bodies and the member states with assistance and expertise in respecting fundamental rights in the implementation of community legislation. the agency has been brought to court on several occasions for cases of mistreatment of whistleblowers and has been accused by the european ombudsman of maladministration for refusing to carry out a thorough investigation into a case of moral harassment among its staff. for all these reasons, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the fundamental rights agency of the european union is to provide assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights to the institutions and member states when they implement community law. the court of auditors notes that the implementation rate of the appropriations carried over from 2013 to 2014 was 97,68% with a cancellation of only eur 147 430, or 2,32% of the total amount, which is well below the agency's target. in addition, the commission has been called to court on several occasions for cases of ill-treatment of whistleblowers. according to the european ombudsman, the agency was guilty of maladministration in refusing to carry out a proper and thorough investigation into the complainant's allegations in a case of moral harassment. the text also calls for an overall improvement in the prevention of and fight against corruption, raising doubts about the practices of the agency's staff. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the text calls on the agency to improve its procedures and practices to safeguard the union's financial interests and to actively contribute to a results-oriented discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ the text notes that the agency has been brought to court on several occasions for cases of ill-treatment of whistleblowers and highlights the european ombudsman's statement that the agency was guilty of maladministration in refusing to carry out a proper and thorough investigation into the complainant's allegations in a case of moral harassment. such behaviour commits me to voting against this text which validates the agency's budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to be given to the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). in 2014, this ideological, useless and expensive agency had a budget of 21,229,000 euros. the parliament's report notes that it has been brought to court on several occasions for cases of ill-treatment of whistleblowers, and highlights the european ombudsman's statement that the agency was guilty of maladministration in refusing to carry out a proper and thorough investigation into the complainant's allegations in a case of moral harassment.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights has competences in community law, assistance and expertise on fundamental rights, which it makes available to the member states. this source of knowledge, however, is not without fault. the company has been the subject of several lawsuits over the mistreatment of whistleblowers, and the reliability of its staff has been called into question. the proposals in the text confirm this, since it recommends that the agency improve its system for preventing corruption and fraud. while its budget is reliable and regular, it is impossible to conceal such abuses. the rapporteur should have been deterred from giving discharge to the institution for its 2014 budget by the mere fact that it was involved in a case of moral harassment. in the face of these shocking facts, i can only vote against.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. we oppose the report's main objective of 'strengthening the agency's contribution to national processes', which also raises problems of corruption, ill-treatment of whistleblowers and mismanagement. as regards the budget, the implementation rate of appropriations carried over from 2013 to 2014 was 97,68% with a cancellation of only eur 147 430, or 2,32% of the total amount, which is well below the agency's target.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ there are budgetary execution problems in the study of this discharge. in addition, the report calls for the agency to contribute more to national processes. the text is not sufficiently critical in view of the known problems. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 discharge for the fundamental rights agency of the european union. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of fra, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the fundamental rights agency's (fra) budget in 2014. the fundamental rights agency's purpose is to provide assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights to the institutions and member states of the union when they implement community law. the main task of the agency is to collect and disseminate objective and reliable data on the situation of fundamental rights in all eu countries within the scope of european law. the agency plays a key role in the respect of fundamental rights within the union.
in writing. ‒ i note that the agency has been brought to court on several occasions for cases of mistreatment of whistleblowers and has been guilty of maladministration in refusing to carry out a proper and thorough investigation into the complainant's allegations in a case of moral harassment. for these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ frontex means more and more resources and more and more illegal migrants in europe. i voted against the discharge for this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it complies with the recommendations on financial management made by the court of auditors in previous years.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the budgetary implementation of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex), which is intended to improve the integrated management of the union's external borders and to strengthen cooperation between national border authorities. i cannot support the unlimited funding of frontex, which is asking for more and more contributions from the member states when the expected results are not there. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ frontex has already demonstrated in recent months its complete ineffectiveness in protecting the eu's external borders. in addition to this political observation, i voted against the discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014, in particular because of the worrying shortcomings pointed out by the court of auditors. the commission has also received comments from the french authorities, which have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the declarations of interests of the executive director, the deputy executive director and the members of the board of directors are also not disclosed. these doubts about the integrity of frontex's senior staff are compounded by the worryingly steady increase in grant agreements and related expenditure: unable to carry out its mission, the agency is also unable to manage its budget! this is further proof, if need be, that the member states remain best placed to protect their borders.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union (frontex) aims to improve, without much success, the control of the external borders of the european union and to gradually replace the national authorities in their control missions at the said borders. the report notes that only a very limited number of public procurement awards were adequately publicised. but above all, i am not a political supporter of frontex and i am opposed to the strengthening of its powers and its budget. i also ask that border control should be returned to the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states (frontex) aims to improve the integrated management of the union's external borders and to strengthen cooperation between national border authorities. the court of auditors notes that of the 1 087 procurement procedures launched in 2014, only a very limited number were the subject of public information on the award of the contract. it therefore called on the agency to increase transparency and to publish the declarations of interests of the executive director, the deputy executive director and the members of the administrative board. these comments raise doubts about the integrity of the agency's staff and the conflicts of interest that seem to exist. i cannot support the unlimited funding of frontex, which is not producing much and is demanding ever more from the member states, so i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it is impossible to support the unlimited funding of the frontex agency which is delivering little and is demanding ever more contributions from the member states, while the responsibility for managing the external borders must remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. however, i cannot support the unlimited funding of the frontex agency, which is delivering little and is demanding ever more contributions from the member states, while the responsibility for the management of the external borders must remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union (frontex) in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to be given to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). the agency is increasingly asking for contributions from member states, while border management should remain the exclusive responsibility of member states.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the objective of frontex (the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union) is to improve the integrated management of the eu's external borders, while strengthening cooperation between its member states. however, it is clear that its priority should be to improve the internal management of its own department. the text thus highlights many areas for improvement, in particular transparency, especially for senior civil servants. it is therefore inconsistent to subscribe to the 2014 discharge, when the institution's conduct is not commendable.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this report calls for the discharge to be given to frontex for the implementation of its budget. however, on the one hand, there is a serious doubt about the integrity of the staff and conflicts of interest, as 'only a very limited number of the 1 087 procurement procedures launched in 2014 were the subject of public information on the award of the contract' and, on the other hand, we argue that other, more efficient and effective funding mechanisms could be used to finance the agency's operational activities. we cannot therefore support the unlimited funding of the frontex agency which offers little result and calls for ever greater contributions from the member states, while the responsibility for the management of the external borders must remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the agency to be more transparent and to publish the declarations of interests of these managers. this gives a bad impression of the integrity of the staff. the financing, unrealistic in view of the results obtained, does not meet a fair judgment on their usefulness. consequently, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of frontex, the court of auditors considers that considerable improvements have been made and that the accounts give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the agency as at 31 december 2014. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the frontex agency in 2014. in the context of the schengen area, the frontex agency plays a fundamental role in the management of the union's external borders. in view of the refugee crisis facing the union, strengthening the role of frontex is a key issue. the mission of frontex is to assist member states in implementing the community rules on external borders and to coordinate their operations in managing these external borders. however, each member state remains responsible for the part of the border which is on its territory. the agency's mission is to help ensure common standards and a high level of efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support the unlimited funding of the frontex agency, which offers too few results and calls for ever more contributions from the member states, while the competence for the management of the external borders must remain exclusively with the member states. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for this agency whose budget is exploding without its projects ever coming to fruition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this european union agency has taken a big step forward. it complies with the recommendations on financial management made by the court of auditors in previous years.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency, which is to be used to implement a new generation of satellite radio navigation systems. the agency's efforts to reduce the level of deferrals can be recognised by committing the budget earlier in the year where possible and thus allowing for advance payments. however, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european gnss agency for 2014 was up by 81,55% compared to 2013, without the expected projects (galileo) having been realised. i can only object to this dumping.
in writing. ‒ concerned about the opacity of the budget of the european gnss agency (gsa), i voted against the discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the gsa for the financial year 2014 has indeed increased by 81,55% compared to 2013, an increase which does not seem to me to be measured or justified. beyond these mind-boggling figures, the court of auditors and the report also questioned the integrity of the agency's staff, stressing the need to improve the ethical framework. in addition, there are problems of transparency in administrative management: the parliament's report calls for improvements to be made to certain aspects of documentation and the corresponding manual on the management of grants. for these reasons, i am surprised that the rapporteur of the parliament's report has asked for discharge, since such malfunctions jeopardise the ability of the gsa to fulfil its mission.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013. this absolutely insane increase in the budget justifies in itself a vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report asks for the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014. the agency's efforts to reduce the level of deferrals can be recognised by committing the budget earlier in the year when possible and thus allowing for advance payments. however, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25,37 million, representing an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the final budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013!
in writing. ‒ according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013! i therefore voted against this budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european global navigation satellite systems agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european gnss agency (gsa). the agency's efforts to reduce the level of deferrals can be recognised by committing the budget earlier in the year when possible and thus allowing for advance payments. however, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, representing an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013. i do not want to approve the accounts of an agency whose budget is exploding, without the expected projects coming to life (galileo).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014. its budget increased by 81.55 percent compared to 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european gnss agency (global navigation satellite system) has, according to the report, made commendable efforts to improve its budgetary functioning. although the intention is appreciable, it could not limit the increase in the budget by 81,55% between 2013 and 2014, which is unacceptable. i voted against, of course.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report requests the discharge for the financial year 2014 of the european gnss agency. we welcome the agency's efforts to reduce the level of deferrals by committing the budget earlier in the year where possible and thus allowing for early payments. on the other hand, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013! we are against it.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the european gnss agency (gsa) for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i would welcome the agency's efforts to make advance payments without the extravagant 80% increase from 2013 to 2014. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. the gnss budget increased by 81.55%. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european gnss agency (european satellite navigation systems galileo egnos). the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of gnss, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 are reliable and that the financial operations are legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this discharge, which for once condemns mismanagement of public funds.
in writing. ‒ this european partnership with artemis must provide further evidence to justify that the eu funds for 2014 have been well spent. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling for a postponement of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is critical and demanding of the management of public money, refusing to recognise management for which all the data are not available. the commission notes that the joint undertaking has not been able to provide the necessary information to the commission to enable it to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which asked for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of artemis' budget for the financial year 2014. it is true that artemis merged with eniac in 2014 into the joint venture called ecsel. however, the problems stem mainly from this merger, as the report rightly notes: financial commitments continued in 2014 without it being known whether they concern ecsel, i.e. the new joint venture, or artemis. this kind of opacity obviously calls into question the regularity of the accounts. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial regulation. finally, and this seems to be the case with many agencies and joint ventures of the european union, there is a total lack of transparency for ecsel in terms of the prevention of conflicts of interest. i am therefore pleased that, unusually, parliament has drawn all the necessary conclusions and asked for the discharge to be postponed.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge to be postponed for irregularities in the management of its accounts, in particular since its merger with eniac. i voted in favour of the report, of course.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to form the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets that the annual evaluation of the agency's accounts did not take over the past management of the joint undertakings and was not more successful. the commission has also received comments from the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the greek authorities, the commission, the european parliament, the european economic and social committee, the european investment bank and the european investment bank. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in force. finally, no effective policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been put in place. for these reasons i voted in favour of this lucid report.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which postpones the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as there is not enough information on the good implementation of its projects in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the granting of discharge to the artemis joint undertaking, which recommends not granting discharge and not recognising management for which we do not have all the data. although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to form the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets that the agency's annual accounts assessment did not take over their past management. the commission notes that the financial commitments were not made in the context of the joint undertaking, but in the context of the joint undertaking. in management terms, this poses a problem of the regularity of the accounts. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in place. although now merged, it is legally bound to comply with it as long as it exists. finally, no robust policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been put in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to form the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets that the annual evaluation of the agency's accounts did not take over the past management of the joint undertakings and was not completed. the commission notes that the financial commitments were not made in the context of the joint undertaking, but in the context of the joint undertaking. in management terms, this poses a problem of the regularity of the accounts. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in place. although now merged, it is legally bound to comply with it as long as it exists. finally, no robust policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been put in place.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the companies artemis and eniac merged to form ecsel (electronic components and systems for european leadership). the reorganisation process seems to have raised a number of problems, such as the regularity of the accounts and the need for new management rules. that is why the report calls for the discharge for the 2014 budget to be postponed. i supported this proposal by voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets and we welcome the fact that the agency's annual accounts assessment did not take into account the past management of the joint undertakings. the commission has also received comments from the greek authorities, the greek authorities and the greek authorities on the application of the state aid rules to the measures in favour of the steel industry. in management terms, this poses a problem of the regularity of the accounts. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in place. although now merged, it is legally bound to comply with it as long as it exists. finally, no robust policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been put in place.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to postpone the parliament's decision on the discharge for the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking's 2014 budget. this joint venture concerns research for the development of key technologies for on-board computer systems. the court of auditors has noted several irregularities in the implementation of this budget for which parliament is asking for explanations. in support of parliament's timid demands in the face of the many bodies which implement the european budget, i am voting for the postponement of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report requested that the discharge on the implementation of the budget be postponed. the decision was timely, first of all, because we did not have all the data for the evaluation. secondly, the report was critical in its study of the management of public money. i therefore voted for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is sufficiently critical. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text postponing the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. this company, which merged with eniac in june 2014 to create the ecsel joint undertaking, was responsible for the implementation of a joint technology initiative on embedded computing systems. the court of auditors delivered a reserved opinion as it considers that artemis has not provided sufficient assurances as to the legality and regularity of the operations for the financial year 2014. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for this agency, for which the report is clearly too conciliatory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge to be given to the clean sky joint undertaking for the development of new technologies to ensure clean and pollution-free airspace. the management of this company raises many questions: thus, despite the establishment of a study of the socio-economic impact of its activities, which the report welcomes, the impact of this on the improvement of the technologies necessary for a "clean, innovative and competitive air system", the object of its existence, is not clearly established. the report also stresses the need to focus on the investments of clean sky 2, which should be given more technological results. despite these limitations in the text, the clean sky joint undertaking is given a rather favourable and, in my view, too benevolent report; i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i refused to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the clean sky budget for the financial year 2014. although the management costs are 'limited' to eur 39 million, this amount seems exorbitant given the company's limited results in its mission to develop the technologies needed for a 'clean, innovative and competitive air system', despite the completion of an impact study on its activities. the parliament's report also highlights the lack of information on the level of contributions in kind or cash for the seventh framework programme (title iii of the budget), as well as the opacity regarding the results of the clean sky research, which is supposed to be part of the horizon 2020 programme. for these reasons, i find the conclusions of the parliament's report too complacent and could not therefore support it.
‒ clean sky is a european aeronautical research programme that brings together the european union and companies in the aeronautical industry. this research programme is working in particular on the development of natural laminar flow technologies. although the management of the programme is considered reliable by the court of auditors, it appears that an impact study on the improvement of the technologies needed to establish 'a clean, innovative and competitive air system' has not produced the expected results. finally, the report is far too vague and, in my view, benevolent. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking was integrated into the clean sky 2 joint undertaking as of june 2014. although the budgets of the two joint ventures cannot exceed certain thresholds and the running costs are limited to eur 39 million for their lifetime, the report stresses the need to focus on the investments of clean sky 2, which would merit greater technological results. despite the establishment of a study on the socioeconomic impact of the company's activities, which is welcomed in the report, the impact of this study on the improvement of the technologies necessary for a clean, innovative and competitive air system, which is the purpose of its existence, is not clearly established. despite these limitations and weaknesses set out in the text, the clean sky joint undertaking is overly favourably reported. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the management of the joint undertaking is, however, open to question. despite the establishment of a study on the socio-economic impact of its activities, which is welcomed in the report, the impact of this study on the improvement of the technologies necessary for a 'clean, innovative and competitive air system', which is the aim of its existence, is not clearly established.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking was integrated into the clean sky 2 joint undertaking as of june 2014. although the budgets of the two joint ventures cannot exceed certain thresholds, and the running costs are limited to eur 39 million for their lifetime, the report stresses the need to focus on the investments of clean sky 2, which would merit greater technological results. this contradiction poses an insoluble problem and makes this discharge unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the landfill to be awarded to the clean sky joint undertaking. the clean sky joint undertaking was integrated as of june 2014 into the clean sky 2 joint undertaking. although the budgets of the two joint ventures cannot exceed certain thresholds, and the running costs are limited to eur 39 million for their lifetime, the report stresses the need to focus on the investments of clean sky 2, which would merit greater technological results. the management of the joint undertaking, which is considered to be reliable and honest by the court of auditors, is nevertheless subject to questions. despite the establishment of a study on the socio-economic impact of its activities, which is welcomed in the report, the impact of this study on the improvement of the technologies necessary for a 'clean, innovative and competitive air system', which is the aim of its existence, is not clearly established. despite these limitations and weaknesses set out in the text, the clean sky joint undertaking is overly favourably reported.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the clean sky joint undertaking was integrated as of june 2014 into the clean sky 2 joint undertaking. although the budgets of the two joint ventures cannot exceed certain thresholds, and the running costs are limited to eur 39 million for their lifetime, the report stresses the need to focus on the investments of clean sky 2, which would merit greater technological results. the management of the joint undertaking, which is considered to be reliable and honest by the court of auditors, is nevertheless subject to questions. despite the establishment of a study on the socio-economic impact of its activities, which is welcomed in the report, the impact of this study on the improvement of the technologies necessary for a 'clean, innovative and competitive air system', which is the aim of its existence, is not clearly established. despite these limitations and weaknesses set out in the text, the clean sky joint undertaking is being treated rather favourably and, in my view, too well.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the discharge for the financial year 2014, this text focuses on clean sky. this is a joint venture, which is the consortium resulting from the integration of clean sky into clean sky 2. as the institution has grown and enriched itself, it has struggled to achieve more technological results, despite investments in this area. the question of the purpose of this undertaking is also to be asked. the report does not seem to grasp the fundamentals of this and merely notes its impact in the improvements of new technologies. the elements in the text are too vague and superficial to grant discharge for 2014. so i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. despite a large budget, the impact of the study on improving the technologies needed for "a clean, innovative and competitive air system", the very purpose of clean sky, is not clearly established. despite the limitations and weaknesses mentioned, the clean sky joint undertaking is reported rather favourably and, in our view, too well.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the union's arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' so-called honest management raises some questions. the role of the joint undertaking in improving the technologies needed for a 'clean, innovative and competitive air system' is not established. the text is not sufficiently critical in view of the known problems. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give a decision on the 2014 discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking. the objective of clean sky, which was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, is to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union so that they can be brought into operation as soon as possible. the founding members of the joint undertaking shall be the union, represented by the commission, and the industrial partners as responsible 'technological demonstrators'. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of clean sky, the court of auditors considers that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the financial operations were legal and regular. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge agreement, since the budget was implemented without any significant error.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. - i voted against this particularly inaccurate report on this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge to be given to the ecsel joint undertaking, set up to replace and succeed the artemis and eniac joint undertakings. its purpose is to contribute to the development of a strong and competitive electronic components and systems sector in the union. the report notes that the court indicated that there was a lack of precise data to best assess the management of the joint undertaking. while not all budgets invested in this joint undertaking are from the union, the union has not been diligent in providing reliable data that are useful for its evaluation. there is no evidence that it is an effective means of achieving its purpose. i cannot therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ given that the court of auditors itself stated that there was a lack of precise data to assess the management of the ecsel joint undertaking, it seemed impossible to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. in addition to this opacity, i am concerned about the particularly high annual budget of ecsel, which amounts to over eur 4 billion, and this without any real evidence of success so far in developing a strong and competitive electronic components and systems sector. the european commission itself has also expressed concern about the high level of risk involved in certain projects carried out by the joint undertaking. in view of the lack of reliable data to allow a meaningful assessment of ecsel, and the shortcomings mentioned above, i thought it irresponsible to vote for discharge.
in writing. ‒ ecsel was created by the merger of artemis and eniac to develop a competitive electronic components and systems industry within the european union. the court of auditors requested that the company carry out a more performance-oriented audit and requested additional information on its management. finally, nothing in the report indicates that the company is fulfilling the purpose for which it was set up. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the ecsel joint undertaking, replacing the artemis and eniac joint undertakings, aims to create a competitive electronic components and systems sector within the union. the budgets for the joint undertaking total over eur 4 billion, of which only eur 1,1 billion comes from the union budgets. the report notes that the court made too general remarks in terms of management. it therefore requests an audit of the future performance of the joint undertaking. the court also pointed out that there was a lack of precise data to assess the management of the joint undertaking. the report mentions high levels of risk in some projects of the joint undertaking. while not all budgets invested in this joint undertaking are from the union, the union has not been diligent in providing reliable data for its evaluation. there is no evidence that it is an effective means of achieving its purpose. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report states that the commission's internal audit services have highlighted high levels of risk in some of the joint undertaking's projects. while not all the budgets invested in this joint undertaking are the responsibility of the union, the union has not been diligent in providing reliable data which can be studied for its evaluation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking. the ecsel joint undertaking was set up to replace and succeed the artemis and eniac joint undertakings. its purpose is to contribute to the development of an electronic components and systems sector. the budgets total more than eur 4 billion, of which only eur 1.1 billion comes from the union budgets. the report notes that the court made too general remarks to the detriment of more management-focused advice and therefore calls for a more performance-oriented audit of the joint undertaking in the future. the report also notes that the court has indicated that there is a lack of precise data to best assess the management of the joint undertaking. the report also indicates that the commission's internal audit services have highlighted high levels of risk in certain projects of the joint undertaking. while not all the budgets invested in this joint undertaking are the responsibility of the union, the union has not been diligent in providing reliable data which can be studied for its evaluation. there is no evidence that it is an effective means of achieving its purpose.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the ecsel joint undertaking was set up to replace and succeed the artemis and eniac joint undertakings. its purpose is to contribute to the development of a strong and competitive electronic components and systems sector in the union. the budgets for the joint undertaking total over eur 4 billion, of which only eur 1,1 billion comes from the union budgets. the report notes that the court made too general remarks to the detriment of more management-focused advice and therefore calls for a more performance-oriented audit of the joint undertaking in the future. the report also notes that the court has indicated that there is a lack of precise data to best assess the management of the joint undertaking. the report also indicates that the commission's internal audit services have highlighted high levels of risk in certain projects of the joint undertaking. while not all the budgets invested in this joint undertaking are the responsibility of the union, the union has not been diligent in providing reliable data which can be studied for its evaluation.
in writing. ‒ ecsel is a joint venture based on the artemis and eniac companies. it aims to contribute to the development of a strong and competitive electronic components and systems sector in the european union. with this guideline in mind, it is operating on a total budget of eur 4 billion, of which eur 1.1 billion comes from the union. the report under vote, which aims to assess the management of the 2014 budget, is having difficulties in fulfilling its mission. the court of auditors has, for the most part, used only general remarks and information, which makes the analysis complex. it is therefore difficult to determine precisely whether ecsel is fulfilling its role rigorously. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. we oppose the discharge on the implementation of the budget even though there is no indication that ecsel is effectively contributing to the purpose for which it exists. the report notes that the court made too general remarks to the detriment of more management-focused advice and therefore calls for a more performance-oriented audit of the company. the commission's internal audit services have highlighted high levels of risk in some projects. the union was not diligent in providing reliable and verifiable data for its assessment.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report is too general and does not allow us to take account of the efficiency of the company. i note that the commission has not been diligent enough to provide reliable and testable data. in the end, its usefulness is not established. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. no evidence of the company's efficiency. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives discharge to ecsel, which was created in june 2014 by the merger of the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking. the court of auditors made a reservation on the legality and regularity of the accounts. however, the company has adopted the practical arrangements for audits and the evaluation of audits. i am therefore in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report which highlights the lack of rigour in the management of this agency.
in writing. ‒ this nanoelectronics project must provide further evidence to justify that eu funds for 2014 have been well spent. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling for a postponement of discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the eniac company, now merged with the artemis joint venture to form ecsel. the report is rather harsh on the activities of the joint undertaking: while the financial commitments come mainly from external contributors, including the european association of nanotechnologies, the court notes a lack of seriousness in following up the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the joint undertaking has also provided a report on the implementation of the joint undertaking's internal audit function. the report also stresses the need to review the management of the joint undertaking. i voted in favour of this report, which makes clear and precise demands in the face of the lack of rigor of the eniac.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which has the merit of giving a fair assessment of the management of the eniac joint undertaking and of requesting the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors' finding, echoed by the parliament's rapporteur, is clear: little seriousness in following up on previous recommendations provided by the commission, no internal audit report provided by eniac in 2014; the commission has also been informed of two major irregularities in the management of the joint venture. from a purely budgetary point of view, it may be recalled that the initial budget for 2014 included only commitment appropriations for operating costs, amounting to eur 2 300 000, and that the budget did not provide for commitment appropriations for operational activities. in addition, it was found that the utilization rate of administrative commitment appropriations was only 43%. a real waste of budget which deserves to be highlighted and reformed.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. although over the entire ten years of operation of the joint undertaking, the union contribution was eur 450 million, out of a much larger total, and considering that the audit issues are mainly focused on the management of these funds, the report is rather severe towards the activities of this joint undertaking. while the financial commitments are mainly from external contributors, including the european nanotechnology association, the court notes a lack of seriousness in following up the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the joint undertaking has also provided a report on the implementation of the joint undertaking's internal audit function. this constitutes a major irregularity in its management, and i voted in favour of this lucid report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour: the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report postponing the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as there is not enough information on the good implementation of its projects in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. although over the entire 10 years of operation of the joint undertaking, the union's contribution was eur 450 million, out of a much larger total, and considering that the audit issues are mainly focused on the management of these funds, the report is rather severe towards the activities of this joint undertaking. while the financial commitments are mainly from external contributors, including the european nanotechnology association, the court notes a lack of seriousness in following up the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the joint undertaking has also provided a report on the implementation of the joint undertaking's internal audit function. this constitutes a major irregularity in its management. the report also stresses the need to review the management of the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget. although over the entire 10 years of operation of the joint undertaking, the union contribution was eur 450 million, out of a much larger total; the report is rather harsh on the activities of the joint undertaking, considering that the audit issues are mainly focused on the management of these funds. while the financial commitments are mainly from external contributors, including the european nanotechnology association, the court notes a lack of seriousness in following up the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the joint undertaking has also provided a report on the implementation of the joint undertaking's internal audit function. this constitutes a major irregularity in its management. the report also stresses the need to review the management of the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the text is relatively critical in its analysis of the 2014 financial year, which is a remarkable fact. it identifies a number of malfunctions. indeed, as the court of auditors has pointed out, eniac has followed the recommendations of the commission's internal audit service to a limited extent. the joint undertaking has also provided a detailed overview of the implementation of the joint undertaking's internal audit function. i therefore support the request for postponement of the 2014 discharge of the report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. over the 10 years of operation of the eniac joint undertaking, the union contribution shall be eur 450 million. the court notes a lack of seriousness in the follow-up to the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the report is rather harsh towards the activities of this joint undertaking and notes that the joint undertaking did not provide an internal audit report in 2014. it stresses the need to review the management of the joint venture, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to postpone the parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget of the eniac joint undertaking. this joint undertaking concerns research for the development of core competencies for nanoelectronics. the court of auditors has noted several irregularities in the implementation of this budget for which parliament is asking for explanations. in support of parliament's timid demands in the face of the many bodies which implement the european budget, i am voting for the postponement of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. the report noted that there had been no internal audit; this is a major failure in its management. the report also stresses the need to review the management of the joint undertaking. consequently, i voted to postpone.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is sufficiently critical. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text postponing the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. this undertaking, which was established in 2007 and merged with artemis in june 2014 to form the ecsel joint undertaking, was responsible for defining and implementing a research programme for the development of core competences for nanoelectronics in different application areas. the court of auditors delivered a qualified opinion as it considers that eniac has not provided sufficient assurances as regards the legality and regularity of the operations for the financial year 2014. i have relied on the opinion of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report does not highlight the most important point: a lot of funding for little results. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the joint undertaking on fuel cells and hydrogen 2 for the implementation of its budget; it points to an ineffective audit that did not allow the respective shares of the different investors to be distinguished, and states that some complaints regarding late payments were settled and that findings from previous audits were followed up. however, it makes little mention of criticism of inefficiently funded projects, which is why i did not vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report requesting discharge on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. it should be remembered that the contribution of each member - the european commission, the industry for a new energy world group and other research groups - is not clearly defined, even though they do not contribute in equal shares. this is an important question considering that the european union is contributing up to €470 million to the first joint venture and more than €665 million to the second: as the report points out, it seems reasonable to determine whether these massive investments have actually contributed to increasing the performance of the projects funded. in addition, there appear to have been complaints about late payments. in view of these facts, i find it difficult to understand how the rapporteur of parliament could propose to vote in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the specificity of the members of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking, here the union, represented by the commission, the industry for a new energy world group and the new research groups on fuel cells and hydrogen. these members shall not contribute equally to the operation of the joint undertaking. the report therefore calls for a better distinction to be made in future between the contributions of the various members and for a clear definition of the extent of their impact on the investments made. the report also seeks to identify whether the union's commitments have been such as to increase the performance of the projects financed. it states, without mentioning other critical points, that some complaints about late payments have been resolved and that findings from previous audits have been followed up. the report states that the successful transfer of activities from one edition of the joint venture to another was correct, but does not mention the uncertainties previously observed. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report finds that the transfer of activities from one edition of the joint undertaking to the other was correct; it does not mention the hazards previously observed. it does not go into detail, although it does mention it, on the actual (or assumed) efficiency of the projects financed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the award of the landfill to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. the report reviews the specific features of the members of the joint undertaking, the union (represented by the commission), the industry for a new energy world group and the new fuel cell and hydrogen research groups. these members shall not contribute equally to the operation of the joint undertaking. the report therefore calls for a better distinction to be made in future between the contributions of the various members and for a clear definition of the extent of their impact on the investments made. with the european union contributing €470 million to the first joint undertaking and €665 million to the second joint undertaking, the report seeks to identify whether the eu's commitments have been such as to increase the performance of the projects funded. the audit cannot confirm this with certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the report remains unclear on certain aspects of the management of the joint venture and on the actual efficiency of the projects financed.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is interested in two joint ventures with particular functions, 'fuel cells and hydrogen' and 'fuel cells and hydrogen 2'. each company has several members, namely the european union (represented by the commission), the industry for a new energy world group and other fuel cell and hydrogen research groups. as a result, the management and financing of these two entities is somewhat complex. the report stresses this point and argues for a better distinction between the roles and decision-making powers of each member. the same applies to financing: the european union is contributing €470 million for enterprise 1 and €665 million for enterprise 2. this is an additional difficulty for the rapporteur, who cannot determine precisely whether the european union's participation in the projects has produced any significant results. i am disturbed by so many uncertainties and cannot but reject the report's proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. firstly, the report calls for a better distinction to be made in future between the contributions of the different members and for a clear assessment of the extent of their impact on the investments made, recognising that the audit cannot be used to certify with certainty that the union's commitments have been such as to increase the performance of the projects financed. but secondly, the report welcomes the good development of the joint venture. we are opposed to the fact that subsidies to the industries concerned can continue to be paid without any challenge or problem, without mentioning the uncertainties previously observed and without going into detail, although he does mention it, on the actual (or assumed) efficiency of the projects financed.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the european union's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the text is not sufficiently critical in view of the known problems. it does not sufficiently reflect the gap between the projects financed and their efficiency. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the company focuses on developing commercial applications and facilitating new industrial efforts for the rapid deployment of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the evaluation data provided is draft at best... so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 (imi) joint undertaking, which was established to continue and extend the activities of the previous one, the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines. the report stresses that the breakdown of commitments is not clearly indicated in the management report: whether they depend on the new programme or the old one (the 7th multiannual programme). this makes the evaluation and audit of the joint undertaking uncertain. however, the joint undertaking would have been able to implement some of the corrections previously suggested by the court, including the publication of the declarations of non-conflict of interest of the directors. finally, although it did not provide clear figures on which to base its activity or efficiency, the joint undertaking is reported on in a favourable and not critical manner. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ due to the uncertainty surrounding the evaluation and audit of this joint undertaking, i could not support the discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. the breakdown of commitments is not clearly defined: it is not known whether they depend on the new programme or on the 7th multiannual programme. again, no clear figures were provided to measure the effectiveness of this company or measure its activities, which is problematic when you know that its budget was increased to 1.6 billion in the multiannual horizon 2020 programme. the report is, however, complacent. so i couldn't support him.
in writing. ‒ the report recalls that this joint venture was established to continue and extend the activity of the previous one, entitled 'joint venture for the implementation of the joint technological initiative on innovative medicines'. this allows the projects concerned by the investments to see their horizon extended to 2024. the budget of the joint undertaking was increased from eur 1 billion to eur 1,6 billion in the multiannual programme horizon 2020. the report stresses that the breakdown of commitments is not clearly indicated in the management report. it is not known whether they are dependent on the new or the old programme, which makes the evaluation and audit of the joint undertaking uncertain. although it did not provide clear figures on which to base its activity or efficiency, the joint undertaking is reported on in a sympathetic and not critical manner. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report did not provide clear figures on which to base its activity or effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the imi joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the innovative medicines initiative 2 (imi) joint undertaking. the founding members of this initiative are the eu, represented by the commission, and the federation of european pharmaceutical companies. the budget of the joint undertaking was increased from eur 1 billion to eur 1,6 billion in the multiannual programme horizon 2020. the report stresses that the breakdown of commitments is not clearly indicated in the management report: whether they depend on the new programme or the old one (the 7th multiannual programme). this makes the evaluation and audit of the joint undertaking uncertain. while it did not provide clear figures on which to base its activity or efficiency, the joint undertaking is reported on in a sympathetic and not critical manner. i can only regret it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the report stresses that the breakdown of commitments is not clearly indicated in the management report. we do not know whether they are dependent on the new programme or the old one (the 7th multiannual programme). this makes the evaluation and audit of the joint undertaking uncertain.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that this text is intended to be benevolent, which prevents a constructive analysis of the use of the 2014 budget for the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking. the result of a joint political will by the union (represented by the commission) and the federation of european pharmaceutical enterprises, this institution wants to be at the forefront of biopharmaceutical innovation. it is allocated substantial funds which allow it to invest in projects until 2024. however, this objective can only be achieved if the distribution of commitments is clarified, if the figures are clear... it is clear that the rapporteur has not raised the fundamental problems, which distorts the analysis. i therefore reject the proposal to grant him discharge for 2014. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the budget of the joint undertaking was increased from eur 1 billion to eur 1,6 billion in the multiannual programme horizon 2020. the report stresses that the breakdown of commitments is not clearly indicated in the management report and although it did not provide clear figures from which to assess its activity or efficiency, the joint undertaking is reported as being benevolent and not critical. we can only regret it.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the joint undertaking's innovative medicines initiative 2 (imi) for the implementation of the 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points i had raised then have all come true. and the untenable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all the eu's arrears, some of which have been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (minus 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and the future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the figures for the company's activity remain rather obscure. the report draws no conclusions from this. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in view of the problems raised, the tone of the report is clearly not sufficiently critical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report was to give its opinion on the 2014 budgetary discharge for the innovative medicines initiative 2 which was set up in december 2007 for a period of ten years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and to ensure that, in the longer term, the pharmaceutical sector produces more effective and safer innovative medicines. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. in the case of imi 2, the report points to the lack of precise information in the court of auditors' audits. however, in view of the good rates of implementation of the budget (92.4 for commitment appropriations and 73.9 for payment appropriations), in particular for operational activities, the court of auditors is in a position to consider that it has received the necessary assurances on the legality and regularity of the accounts and financial operations for the financial year 2014. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ there are many shortcomings in the management of iter, but its usefulness has nevertheless made me vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this project is blamed for its rising costs and delays. the report on budgetary and financial management is inconsistent and often incomplete. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling for a postponement of discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking; the court of justice has criticised this approach. despite the establishment of an internal financing fund, intended to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. the report also states that cost estimates are systematically lower than the actual costs. the report also notes that many areas of uncertainty remain in the procurement procedures and do not guarantee that the choices are made appropriately. however, i voted against this report which, under the pretext of considering a better management of iter, remains too ideological, as in the excessive criticism of the r & d costs of the project, which are by nature relatively unpredictable. iter remains a project of first interest.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which calls for postponing the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and which i have therefore supported. following the court of auditors, the report has the merit of raising concerns about the risks of cost overruns, despite the establishment of an internal financing fund to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress. i am therefore surprised that the iter governance council, which is supposed to meet to avoid these shortcomings in planning, is continually postponed to the greek calendar. in addition, risks remain in relation to procurement procedures, despite some slight improvements. but this apparent progress in management is very quickly counterbalanced by an ever-insufficient estimate of the costs actually incurred; this is one of the reasons why the parliament's committee on budgetary control rejected the new action plan presented in february 2016 by the iter director general.
in writing. ‒ the iter joint undertaking is subject to criticism by the court. despite the establishment of an internal financing fund, intended to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. the rapporteur believes that the procurement procedures have not been sufficiently corrected. it also states that cost estimates are systematically lower than the actual costs. despite the establishment of a cost management system, many shortcomings remain in the quality of the project organisation. the new action plan presented by the new director-general contains too many generalities and was rejected by the committee on budgetary control in february 2016. in addition, the report highlights the court's concerns about the organisation's inability to explain the reasons for signing new contracts. the report also notes that many areas of uncertainty remain in the procurement procedures and do not guarantee that the choices are made appropriately. i voted against this report, which is well-intentioned but too ideological on this subject.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the iter budget to be postponed. so i voted for it. the iter joint undertaking is subject to criticism by the court of auditors. despite the establishment of an internal financing fund, intended to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. despite the establishment of a cost management system, many shortcomings remain in the quality of the project organisation. the new action plan presented by the new director-general contains too many generalities and was rejected by the committee on budgetary control in february 2016. in addition, the report highlights the court's concerns about the organisation's inability to explain the reasons for signing new contracts. the report also notes that many areas of uncertainty remain in the procurement procedures and do not guarantee that the choices are made appropriately.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget. despite the establishment of an internal financing fund, intended to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. these risks are inherent in the nature of the project, which is itself quite complex, and in the regular evolution of its scope of intervention. a (governance) iter council was set up to overcome these planning weaknesses, and it is constantly postponed. the contracting procedures, which have been criticised in the past for their lack of rigour (or for the lack of conformity of the contractors with the requirements of the project), have been partially corrected, but this seems to the rapporteur to be insufficient. the report also states that cost estimates are systematically lower than the actual costs. despite the establishment of a cost management system, many shortcomings remain in the quality of the project organisation. the new action plan presented by the new director-general contains too many generalities and was rejected by the committee on budgetary control in february 2016.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for iter (international experimental project to scientifically and technically demonstrate the feasibility of using fusion as an energy source) and the development of fusion energy is a complex project, with many uncertainties. despite attempts to balance the business, such as the creation of an iter governance council, a cost management system or a new action plan presented by the director-general in february 2016, the institution is not reliable. this trust is essential to ensure sufficient funds. the report correctly notes the risks of cost overruns and the fragility of planning. this set of dysfunctions is the reason for its proposal to postpone the discharge for 2014. i support this relevant proposal by voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the iter joint undertaking is subject to criticism by the court. the report stresses the risks of cost overruns, which remain high, and the partially corrected procurement procedures, which the rapporteur considers to be insufficient. in addition, the report states that cost estimates are consistently lower than the costs incurred and that many shortcomings remain in the quality of the project organisation. the report also notes that many areas of uncertainty remain in the procurement procedures as regards the continuation of the project, and that this does not guarantee that the choices are made in a relevant manner, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to postpone parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget of the iter joint undertaking. the joint venture concerns research for the development of fusion energy. the report notes significant delays and financial slippages in the work of the agency, already resulting in a deficit of almost €0.5 billion. the commission is proposing to extend the deadline for closing the accounts of the agency until it has received explanations and proposals to remedy these shortcomings. to support parliament's timid demands in the face of the many bodies which implement the european budget, i am voting for the postponement of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget to be postponed. i agree with the decision that management has left something to be desired. however, the report was too ideological for me to agree with. his text is not sufficiently critical in view of the known problems. i therefore voted for the decision and against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - this report is clearly too ideological. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report postponing the decision on discharge to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. the company is in a difficult financial situation as the deficit by the completion of the construction phase of the project it is running will amount to eur 428 000 000. the committee on budgetary control also publicly stated that it rejected the proposed action plan of the new director-general. it was therefore necessary to postpone the decision on the discharge to the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ no information is provided on the results of sesar's investments. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for a discharge to be given to the sesar joint undertaking (single european sky atm research), the european body to lead the development and implementation of a new air traffic management master plan for europe. the report recalls that the joint undertaking has moved from the definition phase to the development phase and is now entering the deployment phase. in this last phase, the report stresses that some malfunctions remain, particularly in the management of contracts and payments. in doing so, the report highlights the lack of reliable figures provided by the court regarding the audit of the past activities of sesar and sesar 2. i voted against this report, which does not specify how this agency monitors air traffic in europe, or how and what the results of the investments made by this agency are.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide the european parliament and the council with a report on the implementation of the sesar programme. the management of contracts and payments are among the most important failures, but its reliability is also called into question by the lack of reliable figures provided by the court of auditors concerning the audit of its past activities. what is questionable is that, despite this lack of readability, projects continue, without being possible to compare them according to their different stages of progress and therefore without being possible to estimate what works and what does not. finally, there is still uncertainty as to whether sesar continues to fund effective and efficient projects.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking is a european body set up in 2007 to implement a new master plan for air traffic management in the european area. the report stresses that there are still problems in the management of contracts and payments and highlights the lack of reliable figures provided by the court of auditors in the audit of past activities. i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the sesar joint undertaking is a european body set up in 2007 to pilot, define and implement a new air traffic management master plan for europe. the report highlights that during the deployment phase of the company, certain dysfunctions in contract and payment management were found. it also regretted the lack of reliable figures provided by the court concerning the audit of the past activities of sesar and sesar 2. the joint venture is said to have implemented 369 projects, involving around 16 members and more than 100 public or private parties and bodies. the projects are therefore continuing, although it is not possible at present to assess precisely the performance of each of them. in view of the questions raised and the lack of answers, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report highlights certain dysfunctions, particularly in the management of contracts and payments. it also points out the lack of reliable figures provided by the court regarding the audit of the past activities of sesar and sesar 2.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the sesar joint undertaking. the sesar joint undertaking (single european sky atm research) is a european body established in 2007 to lead the development and implementation of a new air traffic management master plan for europe. the report recalls that the joint undertaking has moved from the definition phase to the development phase and is now entering the deployment phase. at this stage, the report stresses that some malfunctions remain, particularly in the management of contracts and payments. in doing so, the report highlights the lack of reliable figures provided by the court regarding the audit of the past activities of sesar and sesar 2.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the report recalls that the joint undertaking has moved from the definition phase to the development phase and is now entering the deployment phase. at this stage, the report stresses that some malfunctions remain, particularly in the management of contracts and payments. in doing so, the report highlights the lack of reliable figures provided by the court regarding the audit of the past activities of sesar and sesar 2. however, it states that the joint undertaking has recently enabled the implementation of more than 369 projects, involving around 16 members and more than 100 public and private parties and bodies. thus, projects are continuing, although it is still difficult at this stage to compare the progress of the different phases of the projects and to estimate whether they are more efficient or not. does the joint undertaking fund projects that do not produce results in the long term? despite these questions and the lack of information to answer them, the report does not express any major criticism of the management of the joint venture.
in writing. - i voted against it. the text analyses the budgetary management for 2014 of the sesar joint undertaking (single european sky atm research), which was set up in 2007. the fundamental objective of sesar is to develop a master programme for air traffic management in europe. its work has been carried out in several stages, from definition to development, and is now in the deployment phase. the rapporteur, however, disputes this deployment, pointing out the lack of reliable figures provided by the court of auditors during the audit, whereas the company is piloting almost 369 projects. on the other hand, many questions remain unanswered. i therefore think that it is necessary to postpone the discharge to solve these problems.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the sesar project is now in the development phase and the report points out that some malfunctions remain, particularly in the management of contracts and payments. he stressed the lack of reliable figures provided by the court and thus 369 projects were continued without it being possible to estimate whether they were more efficient or not. we object to the fact that, despite these questions and the lack of information to answer them, the report does not make any major criticism of the management of this joint venture.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the sesar joint undertaking for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i opposed the general framework of this budget when it was voted in 2013. the points on which i sounded the alarm then have all come true. and the unsustainable commitments made by the european institutions at that time have not been kept. in particular, 2014 was to be the year of the final absorption of all eu arrears, some of which had been accumulating for 9 years. this is impossible with a budget that has fallen by 6% (- 10 billion), even if more than half of the payment appropriations for 2014 are used to pay commitments made in previous years. as a result, the unpaid are still there (estimated at 2 billion at the end of 2016) and future budgetary needs are not covered. i confirm my opposition to this austerity budgetary framework by voting against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the agency, which is responsible for air traffic control in europe, does not give details of the results of the investments. questions about the state of the site remain unanswered, leaving the report without major criticism. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report is far too vague on the agency's objectives, means and results. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the accounts are hereby cleared, the budget of the joint undertaking responsible for managing the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme having been implemented without material error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors gave a positive opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the reliability and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european union budget voted by the parliament is ambitious and realistic in view of the challenges ahead and the limited resources at our disposal. through discharge procedures, we make considerable and repeated efforts to increase the transparency of the european budget for citizens. in this sense, the discharge calls for a more performance and results-based approach to eu spending, to both improve the efficiency of the european budget and make it more readable to citizens. regarding the discharge for sesar, while reviewing and approving the reliability, regularity and legality of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, my colleagues and i expressed a number of observations. among them, after recalling the essential role played by this joint undertaking in the creation of a single european sky, we encourage closer collaboration with the member states to increase the number and quality of projects under the connecting europe facility (cef). for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the eib is an example of a once useful european structure whose role is diverted to serve only the union's foreign policy. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which should benefit european smes by facilitating their access to exports and enabling them to find tailor-made financing. nevertheless, the eib must respond to the challenges facing the union. first, the eib should address the root causes of the current migrant and refugee crisis by focusing its activities on supporting investment needs in urban, health, education and social infrastructure. in addition, it must take account of the high unemployment rates in many member states, especially among young people, in the implementation of its policies.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the eib's stated mission to ensure the balanced development of the european union. it highlights the many projects funded in 2014: 413 in total across the union. the report estimates that its sme financing has helped to preserve 3.6 million jobs, which has yet to be precisely demonstrated: the eib's annual activity reports lack precision on the effectiveness of the financing granted. the report hardly touches on the alleged and proven scandals of financing "mafia" or "money laundering" in certain infrastructure projects. he favours political recommendations: "to develop a european foreign policy", he said, "we should have a financial arm like the eib". it goes so far as to propose that firms be financed in return for a political conformity of their values with those of the union. . . . this report is neither specific nor critical enough and proposes to promote a political use of the eib which seems to me highly objectionable; i therefore voted against what appears to be a backdoor way for the commission to increase its power.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this annual report on the european investment bank because it minimises the consequences of operational failures while praising the political role of the bank. while i welcome the fact that many smes have been able to access financing through the european fund for strategic investments, i am concerned on the other hand about the steady increase in the eib's tasks, which this report seems to want to take on the role of a 'financial arm' in countries outside the eu, in order to strengthen a european foreign policy. in addition to this infringement of the prerogatives of the member states in this area, the report makes little mention of the serious credibility problems affecting the eib, in particular the scandals of mafia financing via infrastructure projects. the eib is hardly asked to be more discerning in its financing choices; the report merely makes a timid request for analysis of the results in future reports. finally, i am concerned about the recommendation that the eib should only finance companies that are recognised as politically compliant; the criteria which the eib will use to judge whether or not a firm is acceptable are, however, open to question.
in writing. ‒ this report details the european investment bank's commitments in 2014 to the union's harmonious development with the aim of reducing macroeconomic imbalances between member states. the commission is proposing to continue this investment policy, which has already saved 3.6 million jobs in the union, without giving any precise justification. it also advocates financial support for the fight against global warming, even if these commitments are not directly linked to the eib's original objective of supporting growth and job creation. the rapporteur also calls for more controls, although no additional constraints are envisaged. in summary, this text is a series of recommendations that are not linked to the eib's mission to support public investment in europe in order to boost economic growth and safeguard employment in the union. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european investment bank (eib) is crucial to increasing investment within the european union. since the 2008 economic and financial crisis, the european union has suffered from a severe lack of investment. that is why we have set up the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the fund is designed to encourage investors to finance riskier projects that are backed by a european guarantee in the event of significant losses. the efsi aims to boost investment in europe. the eib is in charge of this fund. in this respect, the eib plays a particularly important role in the recovery of the european economy. i also welcome the bank's initiatives to support smes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this annual report takes stock of the european investment bank's activities and highlights its important role in implementing the juncker plan. the report recommends the introduction of external regulatory oversight of the eib, asks for details of the results achieved through the various eib financial instruments and supports the desire for an interinstitutional agreement which should lead to better controls and increased dialogue. considering that the european investment bank is the financial arm of the european union and that its independence must be promoted while ensuring a right of review by the european institutions of its activities, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ this paper highlights the eib's impact on the european union's strategy to support the energy transition and policy to support job creation, particularly for smes and young people. the report also stresses the strategic importance of the financial instruments made available to project promoters, who must be better supported in their implementation and in the tendering procedures. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is the subject of a specific paragraph with a number of satisfactory comments, for example on the speed of its implementation, while highlighting improvements in terms of the balance of dossiers supported between member states, the need to establish more stringent rules on conflicts of interest and strict, simple and transparent criteria for public-private partnerships and their financing. i would add that the efsi needs to be better communicated to businesses and clusters, in particular in liaison with national public financial institutions and managers of european funds, and, in france, the regions, in order to create real synergies and development opportunities and to bring projects back to luxembourg.
in writing. ‒ the eib's mission is to help create jobs and stimulate growth, and its lending targeted 285 000 smes in 2014. the report suggests that this has preserved 3.6 million jobs, which remains to be demonstrated precisely. it even supports the 'carbon' and 'climate' commitments made by the eib, which are not directly linked to its mission. the report seems to avoid the question of past or potential future scandals related to mafia financing or money laundering. it lacks a critical vision and favours policy recommendations, for example on the development of investment in crisis countries outside the european union. it also suggests that firms be financed in return for a political alignment of their values with those of the union. the eib's mandate is proposed to be extended to the union's eastern neighbourhood. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report is neither specific nor critical enough and suggests without saying so that the eib should be used for political purposes.
in writing. - this report is neither precise nor critical enough. it is also taking the wrong path, in particular by proposing to encourage the political use of the eib. it also proposes extending the eib's mandate to the union's eastern neighbourhood. the eib must, however, concentrate on european construction projects, where there is so much to do. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages the european investment bank to continue its efforts to raise the low level of investment in the european union, giving priority to investments that accelerate recovery and increase productivity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european investment bank. the report highlights the role of the eib: to enable a balanced development of the european union. the eib's mission is to help create jobs and stimulate growth, and its financing targeted 285 000 smes in 2014. the report suggests that this has helped to preserve 3.6 million jobs, which has yet to be demonstrated precisely: the eib's annual activity reports lack precision on the effectiveness of the financing provided. the report barely touches on past and potential scandals of "mafia" financing or "money laundering" in certain infrastructure projects. it called on the commission to make efforts to control its investments without any constraints being envisaged.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge report because the european investment bank is too often used as a financial instrument in the service of the eu's erratic foreign policy. the eib is the first investor in turkey!
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank (eib) has as its main mission to support the balanced development of the european union. to this end, it focused on the development of smes (small and medium-sized enterprises) in 2014. it also contributes to job creation and growth by financing projects. the improvements advocated in the report, however, distort its purpose and its political intentions. it proposes to develop a european foreign policy, welcomes initiatives in ukraine (for example, aid for gas purchases), encourages the organisation of seminars on human rights... the report culminates in a suggestion to extend the eib's mandate to the eu's eastern neighbourhood. these proposals are unacceptable and put the rapporteur out of his field of competence. i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report highlights the many projects funded in 2014: 413 in total within the union, 92 outside the union; the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 108 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid scheme for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008. the report proposes that the eib continue to initiate innovative financing in the union, even though the eib's annual activity reports lack precision on the effectiveness of the financing provided. it supports the eib's carbon and climate commitments, without being directly linked to its raison d'être of stimulating growth. he barely dwell on past and potential scandals of financing "mafia" or money laundering. the report calls for the eib to make efforts to control its investments without any constraints being envisaged. the commission is also proposing to extend the mandate of the eib to the eu's eastern neighbourhood and even to propose that businesses be financed in return for a political alignment of their values with those of the eu. we are strongly opposed to these measures.
in writing. ‒ the report assesses the 2014 annual report of the eib. the eib's task is to provide financial support for projects of interest to the union, as defined in the europe 2020 strategy. the report welcomes the eib's efforts to "raise the low level of investment in the european union". the commission notes that the eib financed 285 000 smes in 2014, safeguarding 3,6 million jobs. the report generally welcomes the eib's action, but also expresses some criticisms. it called for the eib's financing to be used to help those sectors most affected by high unemployment. it also denounced the infiltration of companies linked to organised crime in projects financed by the eib, as in the case of the 'passante di mestre' bypass motorway, which led to tax fraud. the report points to the risk that this fund will be used in a way that favours "the socialisation of risks and the privatisation of profits". the report also calls for greater parliamentary scrutiny of the eib's activities. i abstain on this text, which has the merit of emphasizing without compromise the dysfunctions of this system.
in writing. ‒ i am aware that this bank is one of the few european institutions that has a real interest and a positive impact. unfortunately, i note that it is being used as an instrument of the eu's foreign policy. the report is steeped in this ideology. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report barely touches on past and potential 'mafia' or 'money laundering' funding scandals in certain infrastructure projects. the report calls on the eib to make efforts to control its investments without any constraints being envisaged. noting the absence of ex-ante analyses, the report calls on the eib to ensure that its financing choices are better assessed and suggests that future annual reports should be oriented towards performance analysis. the report is alarmed at the development imbalances between european countries and proposes that the eib should work to close them. it even proposes extending the eib's mandate to the eu's eastern neighbourhood. this report is neither specific nor critical enough and it suggests without saying that the eib should be used for political purposes. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european investment bank. i support in particular all the provisions of this report which call on this institution to strengthen its activities to tackle the external dimension and root causes of the migration crisis, in particular by intervening in the countries of origin of migrants and in the countries directly bordering on them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which deals with the eib's annual report for 2014 and brings together our proposals and requirements with regard to its activities. the eib shall contribute to the financing of projects in the union's interest. the figures for 2014 are encouraging: the eib has financed 285 000 smes and concluded financing contracts for 413 projects across the eu worth €69 billion. i would also like to stress the need for the eib to focus on investments in the real economy and to mobilise its funds to meet the financing needs of european businesses. the eib programme should therefore support the union's policy objectives, in particular by giving priority to investments that accelerate recovery and foster youth employment, innovation and smes. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) should also be welcomed. finally, we call for a strengthening of the eib's governance, transparency and control framework and for greater parliamentary accountability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2014 annual report of the european investment bank (eib). the eib's core activity is to provide financial support for projects of interest to the union which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion, and thus to the strengthening of european integration and employment. in particular, in 2014, the eib helped finance 285 000 small and medium-sized enterprises, thus safeguarding 3.6 million jobs. the eib must continue its work and give priority to investments that accelerate economic recovery and increase productivity, and it must also focus on actions that raise the level of investment in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the eu cynically uses the terrible images of bombed hospitals to increase its prerogatives. that is unacceptable. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which, under the guise of denouncing attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law, calls for an increase in the eu's powers: thus, it tends to ensure the eu's interference in external conflicts, in particular those concerning the possession of the sahara and the israeli-palestinian conflict. the commission is also calling for european legislation on armed drones and for the eu to be given more powers to regulate the right of states to sell weapons, in other words for the commission to choose the right and wrong customers instead of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this resolution concerning attacks on hospitals and schools. while no one can of course remain insensitive to such attacks and those parties who use these infrastructures for the purpose of terrorism must be strongly condemned, it is not the role of the european union but rather that of the united nations and its signatory member states to act in this field. i reject in particular the tendency of the eu to substitute itself for sovereign nations in bilateral or multilateral agreements for humanitarian aid. the resolution could lead one to wonder whether the eu is not seeking to exploit these human tragedies to increase its powers, since foreign policy should remain the prerogative of the member states. while i therefore condemn the eu's attitude, i still have this issue at heart and i hope that france will make a strong statement at the world humanitarian summit in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016 and that it will also continue to strengthen its bilateral partnerships, particularly with african countries, in support of humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the many attacks on hospitals and schools in areas of armed conflict. these attacks on hospitals and schools are considered war crimes as they are contrary to the geneva convention and the rome statute of the international criminal court. for this reason, the european union must be able to assist the united nations security council in its fight against these wrongdoings. the united nations security council plays a vital role in ensuring that international law is respected. i voted in favour of this resolution to support the united nations and the union in the fight against violence against these dedicated volunteers and students who simply want to have access to education.
in writing. ‒ this resolution addresses attacks on hospitals and schools that occur in armed conflicts around the world. improving the situation of people affected by armed conflict requires greater respect for international humanitarian law. the resolution proposes that international condemnations be followed up by independent investigations and genuine accountability for all actors involved, but also that the eu guidelines on the promotion of international humanitarian law be strongly defended. considering that armed conflicts must not involve innocent victims and that respect for international humanitarian law in conflict zones must be upheld, i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ according to international humanitarian law, schools and hospitals in conflict zones must be protected. yet in recent months, schools and hospitals have been targeted in aleppo, syria, kunduz, afghanistan, and razah, yemen, and countless children and sick people have been killed. in addition to human tragedy, these attacks can also lead to the closure of establishments or disruption of their operations. children, teachers, doctors and nurses are also threatened by the parties to the conflict. and the use of schools for military purposes, as recruiting grounds or, worse, as shields for combatants is quite dramatic. the european union and its member states must demand from the un security council that such abuses cease immediately and that all existing tools be used to put an end to these violations of the law: targeted measures, the establishment of information missions or commissions of inquiry or judicial mechanisms, such as referral to the international criminal court, so that these crimes do not go unpunished.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution negotiated by the epp, s&d, ecr, alde, gue, greens and efdd groups. the resolution, which comes in the context of the first world humanitarian summit to be held in turkey at the end of may, underlines the eu's role in promoting and defending humanitarian law, while condemning the various violations of humanitarian law (notably in kunduz in afghanistan, razah in yemen and syria).
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this resolution uses attacks on hospitals and schools to demand increased eu powers.
in writing. ‒ the first world humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may. in his report, the un secretary-general stressed the brutality of present conflicts, which risked leading the world "back to an era of unlimited war". despite international humanitarian law, schools, hospitals, civilians and aid workers are targeted by attacks or "spills". the objective of daesh and other terrorist groups, in syria and elsewhere, but also the fact of states, such as the bombing of the doctors without borders hospital in afghanistan by the americans but also in rafah in palestine by israel or turkey. this resolution carefully avoids pointing the finger at those actors present. i am therefore afraid that the proposal for a european embargo on arms sales to 'countries that violate international humanitarian law' will not concern some of these people. nevertheless, it criticises the extrajudicial abuses of the north american drones. and given the unwavering support this resolution gives to humanitarian law, the un and the strengthening of international judicial and investigative systems, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is designed to bend public opinion. it has built up an impeccable humanitarian record to persuade the best of us to grant an extension of the eu's powers. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this resolution intends to use terrible tragedies to increase the powers of the eu. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which underlines the role of the european union, in whose humanitarian aid budget the chapter amounted to eur 909 million in 2015, in promoting and defending humanitarian law while condemning the various violations of humanitarian law (including in kunduz in afghanistan, razah in yemen and syria).
in writing. ‒ i have supported this resolution which expresses our strongest condemnation of the worldwide increase in attacks on hospitals and schools in situations of armed conflict, which constitute serious violations of the 1949 geneva conventions and war crimes under the rome statute of the international criminal court. international humanitarian law must be respected, as it is a common legacy of our modern history. in this resolution, we therefore call on the union to take action at european level and also at multilateral level to ensure that international humanitarian law is effectively applied and respected. impunity for violations of international humanitarian law cannot be tolerated. the courage and dedication of local and international medical, teaching and humanitarian workers in conflict zones should also be commended. the world humanitarian summit in may should be an opportunity for the union to reaffirm its commitment to the protection of civilians and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which firstly recalls that, under international law, schools and hospitals in conflict zones must be protected. the resolution calls on the member states to mobilise the un security council to ensure that attacks on hospitals and schools do not go unpunished. respect for international humanitarian law is fundamental to guaranteeing the protection of civilians, who are the first victims of conflicts today. with hospitals and schools recently targeted in different theatres of war, there is an urgent need to ensure their protection and to ensure full respect for international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ this resolution addresses attacks on hospitals and schools in war and armed conflict zones, which constitute violations of international humanitarian law. such attacks are on the rise in many parts of the world, as the recent attacks in aleppo have shown. the infrastructure, sanitation and schools, should remain neutral and protected areas even in times of armed conflict. these serious violations of international law must be investigated in a transparent, independent and impartial manner. in this resolution, parliament also reiterated its position in favour of a european arms embargo on countries responsible for serious violations of international law, including saudi arabia. the eu is the leading donor of humanitarian aid. this represented 1% of its budget in 2015. this aid should be increased and accompanied by significant efforts by the member states. some european states have a heavy responsibility, including in the sale of arms, which could have been underlined in the resolution, as well as their direct or indirect participation in these conflicts. i voted in favour of this resolution, which was drafted by my greek colleague and friend from syriza, kostas chrysogonos, who was one of the main drafters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which denounces the lack of public access to the documents that the eu and its agencies are required to provide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives citizens access to eu documents from 2014 and 2015. however, this increased transparency must benefit all european citizens and not just large companies and multinationals.
in writing. ‒ this report is critical of the insufficient application by the eu institutions and agencies of the rules on public access to documents. it wants to extend the scope of application of the rules to the ecb, the european council and the court of justice, and suggests in particular that the minutes of meetings of the council working groups or all the agendas of parliament be made public, among other things. in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy, i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report by mrs ferrara because it criticises in particular the lack of transparency of the european institutions and agencies in terms of public access to documents. given the impact of the brussels institutions on the lives of millions of citizens in the member states, it seems to me entirely justified that they should be able to have access, in particular, to the minutes of the meetings of the council working groups, to the agendas of parliament, to the summaries of decisions taken at meetings of committee coordinators, and to the work of the bureau and the conference of presidents. i am also pleased that mrs ferrara has asked for the documents from the trilogue meetings to be made immediately available on a platform, as well as documents relating to the management of the structural funds. given the opacity and lack of democratic legitimacy of the european union, it is the last thing to do to introduce a minimum of transparency to the public about what is happening in it.
in writing. ‒ this text criticises the insufficient application of the rules on public access to documents. the aim is to extend the scope of the rules to the ecb, the european council and the court of justice. the report suggests that the minutes of meetings of council working groups and other documents, all parliament's agendas and summary notes of meetings of coordinators of committees, the bureau and the conference of presidents, as well as, in principle, all documents mentioned therein, documents of trilogue meetings, be made public without delay on an easily accessible platform, and finally all documents relating to the management of the structural funds. it is difficult not to support this text in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report points to the eu institutions and agencies that are not properly applying the rules on public access to documents. it is in this context that the rapporteur wishes to extend the scope of the rules to the european central bank, the european council and the court of justice. the text also suggests making public all the minutes of the meetings of the council working groups, the documents of the trilogue meetings and all the summary notes of the meetings of the coordinators of the committees and the conference of presidents. the rapporteur also proposes that the documents relating to the management of the structural funds should be made available to the public. the report is a step in the right direction in calling for more transparency. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report deals with the right of access to documents of the european institutions. general principles and limits on such access to documents for reasons of public or private interest have been laid down in regulation no 1049/2001, which applies to the european institutions as well as to the court of justice of the european union, the european central bank and the european investment bank. the report makes many proposals to increase access to documents and transparency in the eu institutions. i have supported this report because i believe that transparency in the activities of the european institutions is an essential condition for the democratization of the union.
in writing. ‒ the democratic strengthening of the union requires greater transparency in the work of the european institutions, whether in the preparation of new legislation or in trade negotiations with third countries. so, as we have long called for, the mandates given to the european commission to negotiate trade agreements on behalf of the union must of course be made public, so that european citizens are aware of the issues at stake and know what interests the european negotiators will be negotiating on their behalf. they should also be the subject of public debate in the various member states. similarly, it is necessary to make public the positions of the different member states within the council with regard to the elaboration of european directives and regulations in order to avoid the double language too often practised by heads of state and government. so we are asking the member states to take simple measures, measures which cost nothing but which would have a certain democratic impact.
in writing. ‒ this report is critical of the insufficient application of the rules on public access to documents by the eu institutions and agencies. he wants to extend the scope of the rules to the ecb, the european council and the court of justice. the text suggests, in particular, that minutes of meetings of council working groups and other documents, all parliament's agendas and summary notes of meetings of committee coordinators, the bureau and the conference of presidents be made public. the same applies to the documents of the trilogue meetings, on an easily accessible platform, and to all documents relating to the management of the structural funds. in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy, i supported this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the text suggests making public:- the minutes of meetings of council working groups and other documents;- all parliament's agendas and summary notes of meetings of coordinators of committees, the bureau and the conference of presidents, and, in principle, all documents mentioned therein; - the documents of trilogue meetings, without delay on an easily accessible platform;- all documents relating to the management of the structural funds.
in writing. ‒ the lack of or difficulty in accessing documents, including documents relating to legislative procedures, is indeed a problem for democracy. not only when it comes to public access, but perhaps even more so when it comes to meps. however, if they are not members of a committee, or are not fictitious rapporteurs or coordinators, many members have difficulty accessing information that is supposedly public. in some cases, only persons designated by who knows who as 'need to know' have the privilege of being informed about certain things. but what member of parliament, to carry out his mandate properly, does not need to know? the worst, i think, is the practice of highly supervised 'reading rooms', where the duly accredited member, on condition of discretion, is supposed to assimilate complex texts, often written in a language other than his own, in two hours, without taking notes or making copies. a travesty of transparency that applies to the most sensitive issues because they are the most scandalous: the negotiations on the transatlantic agreement, the discussions of the group on good tax behaviour... i voted in favour of mrs ferrara's report.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of this european parliament resolution on citizens' access to documents produced by the european union. it recalls that transparency, access to documents and, more generally, access to information are enshrined in our treaties and constitute fundamental rights which underpin citizens' trust in public institutions, a hallmark of the quality of our european democracy. in too many cases, the agencies, bodies and procedures of the european union are particularly opaque. this is the case, for example, of trilogues, of which no minutes are published, whereas these meetings are the origin of many european legislation. this report is a strong signal.
in writing. ‒ this report suggests in particular that:- the minutes of meetings of council working groups and other documents;- all parliament agendas and summary notes of meetings of coordinators of committees, the bureau and the conference of presidents, and, in principle, all documents mentioned therein, be made public; - documents of trilogue meetings, without delay on an easily accessible platform;- all documents relating to the management of the structural funds. in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy, i have chosen to support this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to facilitate public access to european union documents, and in particular to make public the informal tripartite meetings between representatives of the parliament, the council and the commission (trilogue). i am committed to transparency and to the european citizen's access to information, but i have nevertheless abstained from voting in favour of this report because it goes too far in terms of transparency. in addition to imposing a very heavy administrative burden, it would deprive members of a much needed margin of manoeuvre during trilogue negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents between 2014 and 2015. the report is critical of the insufficient application of the rules on public access to documents by the eu institutions and agencies. it wants to extend the scope of the rules to the ecb, the european council and the court of justice. the text suggests, in particular, that the minutes of meetings of council working groups and other documents, parliament's agendas and the summary notes of meetings of coordinators of committees, the bureau and the conference of presidents, as well as all documents mentioned therein, documents of trilogue meetings, be made public without delay on an easily accessible platform, as well as all documents relating to the management of the structural funds. in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy, it is difficult not to support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it seeks to improve public access to european documents. it is therefore worthwhile to try to improve the transparency of the eu. it's a lot of stuff.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote denounces the lack of visibility for european citizens on a number of official documents. the list includes minutes of council working group meetings, parliament's agendas, documents from trilogue meetings, etc. it also wants to include the ecb (european central bank), the european council and the court of justice in the scope of public access to documents. i support this report, which defends transparency, democracy and accountability. i voted yes.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the report is critical of the insufficient application of the rules on public access to documents by the eu institutions and agencies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the rules to the ecb, the european council and the court of justice and suggests that many texts (minutes, parliament's agendas, trilogue meetings, etc.) should be made public. in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy, we support this text.
in writing. ‒ every year, the parliament, the council and the commission are required to draw up a report on the transparency and public access to their documents. the rapporteur of the italian five star movement takes this opportunity to ask for the regulation containing this requirement to be revised. first, to include the other eu bodies, starting with the ecb, whose decision-making process is no longer transparent. secondly, it requires at least the publication of the commission's negotiating mandates in international agreements such as ttip. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. despite the attempts of the right and the social democrats, this report has held up and exposed the small secret negotiations and meetings of the latter. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this text is critical of the institutions' actions. it aims at a strong democracy and is in favour of accountability and transparency. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy, this text must be supported. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the occasion of the vote on the ferrara report on public access to documents between 2014 and 2015. the citizens must be informed about the work of the members of parliament, but they must also be given a certain amount of latitude and the possibility of working discreetly, particularly in the context of trilogue negotiations. i have nevertheless supported in this report the amendments calling on the commission to come forward with a proposal to protect whistleblowers in order to better protect and support them in our democratic systems.
in writing. ‒ in politics, transparency is a double challenge essential for democratic life: it contributes to the improvement of legislation and to citizens' confidence in the european institutions. the report makes a number of welcome proposals, such as the appointment of a transparency officer within the management of each institution to ensure compliance with the rules and the extension of the rules on public access to documents to other institutions (european council, european central bank, court of justice). i have always advocated, together with my group, greater transparency in the institutions and their activities, but we must also be reasonable. if making all the negotiating documents public does not bring any real benefit to the citizen, it does make the legislative work more permeable to the various attempts of influence by the representatives of interests. fortunately, the report has struck a balance between improving transparency in europe and strengthening the eu's political link with its citizens, without compromising the freedom of the politicians in the deliberative process. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency, accountability and democracy, it is difficult not to support this text. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ according to the regulation on public access to eu documents, an annual report is provided to assess the situation, in particular in the case of refusal to publish documents. the principle of 'transparency' is the minimum that can be required to improve the functioning of the european institutions. unfortunately, we know that we are far from that, including the members of the european parliament. the ttip is a sad illustration of this. the report rightly criticises this lack of transparency, particularly in the negotiation of international agreements. i am faced with the same refusal with regard to the agreements currently in progress with the countries of the horn of africa. the report also denounces the abuse of so-called trilogue meetings (meeting for consultation on legislative texts between parliament, council and commission) without any possibility of monitoring citizens. the report therefore calls for the publication of certain documents relating to these meetings, such as agendas, summaries of conclusions and minutes. the report also calls for the directive to be extended to other european institutions, including the ecb, which is lagging far behind in this area. i therefore voted in favour of this report which makes proposals to that effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which, although positive, introduces a path to the regularisation of illegal immigrants.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to give new value to domestic work, in particular by removing it from the illegality in which it often finds itself and thus allowing social rights (unemployment, pension, etc.) to be granted to those who carry it out. while some of the proposals in this report are laudable (professionalising these occupations which will develop because of demography, introducing 'helpful' leave, introducing tax incentives such as the 'employment cheque' service to take this market out of the underground economy for a sector with often precarious and difficult jobs and 88% occupied by women), it proposes the regularisation of illegal workers and the creation of legal migration routes through these jobs. i therefore voted against this report, although it is of some interest in the way it deals with difficult professions which deserve recognition; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. once again, whoever is the angel is the beast.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, while it makes some relevant findings on the precarious situation of women domestic workers, domestic helpers and child-care workers, advocates a cure worse than the disease. the report does indeed have the merit of calling for a real recognition of domestic work and care for people as a genuine occupational activity. it should also be remembered that 88% of these jobs are occupied by women and that their lack of value very often leads to women being placed in a very precarious situation. it is therefore necessary to professionalize these occupations, which are too often occupied by women with little or no qualifications, very often of immigrant origin. however, the report uses this data to open the door a little more to mass immigration and the legalisation of illegal workers. this sector is a great source of jobs and therefore of growth and it seems to me that it makes sense to train the unemployed in the member states first (remember that the unemployment rate in the euro zone is 10.5%) in these activities without having to bring in foreign labour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to give new value to domestic work in order to remove it from the frequent illegality in which it finds itself. the rapporteur hopes that this will be achieved by enabling these domestic workers, most of whom are women, to benefit from the same social benefits as other employees, such as unemployment benefits or pensions. some proposals are laudable, such as the introduction of tax incentives such as the employment service to get this market out of the underground economy. however, i cannot vote for this text which calls for the legalisation of all illegal immigration and the creation of legal migration routes. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ it is a fact that in the european union, the majority of people working as domestic servants, as domestic helpers or as childcare workers are women. this type of employment is very difficult to control because the employees work in a private sphere, the home of a house. there are still far too many cases of domestic workers being mistreated, abused and underpaid. such workers must be entitled to the same social protection as any other worker. we must also put an end to the exploitation of illegal refugees, who too often have to accept harsh working conditions when they are domestic workers. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes european legislation to regulate the situation of women domestic workers, domestic helpers and childcare workers in the european union. this is an important issue, as it is essential to encourage exchanges of good practice between member states to combat exploitation and respect for fundamental rights. however, i do not think that this is a matter for the european union and i am opposed to parliament calling on the commission to work on a directive on this. i also think it is rather inappropriate to mix this subject with migration issues, as this report proposes. for all these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european union has 2.5 million domestic workers, 88% of whom are women. however, one third of these employees are totally excluded from national labour laws. the work of domestic workers, domestic helpers and child-care workers in the union is rarely and unevenly regulated in the member states. as a result, their employment and social protection rights are limited. common recognition of these professions should be promoted at union level. this will also reduce undeclared work and promote the social integration of domestic workers.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to give new value to domestic work, by putting an end to the frequent illegality of domestic work and thus allowing social rights such as unemployment or retirement to be granted to those who carry it out. it is certainly commendable to want to professionalize these occupations, which are gradually developing because of demography. the aim is to introduce a "helpful" leave, to introduce tax incentives such as the service employment cheque to get this market out of the underground economy. however, since it proposes the regularisation of illegal immigration and the creation of legal migration routes, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: some proposals are laudable but he proposes the regularisation of illegal immigration and the creation of legal migration routes.
in writing. ‒ housekeeping, childcare, care for people, home help, all these activities, which are often difficult, requiring little or no qualifications, are nevertheless of great social and collective importance. they deserve recognition. these are also sectors that are prone to undeclared work and exploitation and these problems certainly need to be tackled. but i voted against the kuneva report. the rapporteur has found that these jobs, which are devalued, are often carried out by migrant women, because they require little or no training and are not supposed to be of interest to the natives. these women are also almost as often in irregular employment, which encourages undeclared work. the text therefore, with a perverse logic, calls for the commission to regulate these sectors, to encourage intra-european immigration, the opening of legal channels for extra-european immigration likely to occupy this type of jobs and the systematic regularisation of illegal migrants already engaged in these activities. i would prefer that these jobs be given a new lease of life, to make them attractive to nationals, and that their creation by private individuals be supported, if necessary by financial or tax incentives. this in no way requires any intervention from brussels or additional immigration.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote in favour of european legislation on domestic workers, as this subject, which i am particularly sensitive to, falls within the strict competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on women domestic workers, domestic workers and child-care workers in the european union because i believe that, while it is important to allow the exchange of good practice and to develop a framework to help member states to ensure respect for social rights and to combat exploitation, it is not appropriate, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to call on the european commission to work on a directive in this area. it is also not appropriate to introduce, in favour of a report on domestic and other caring staff, specific and detailed recommendations on asylum and immigration policy, for example on targeted legal migration and immigrant settlement programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on women domestic workers, domestic helpers and childcare workers in the european union. i support the aim of this report: to give new value to domestic work, in particular by removing it from the frequent illegality in which it finds itself and thus allowing social rights (unemployment, pension, etc.) to be granted to those who carry it out. it is true that this work is often precarious and difficult, and that these jobs are often not reported. some proposals are laudable: professionalizing these occupations, which will develop because of demography, introducing a "helpful" leave, introducing tax incentives such as the employment cheque service to take this market out of the underground economy. however, he proposes the regularisation of illegal immigration and the creation of more legal migration routes, which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, under the pretext of helping women, it calls for the legalisation of illegal migrant workers and the opening of legal immigration routes. it's a pity he didn't stick to his original purpose.
in writing. - i abstained. this report is well-intentioned and aims to give domestic work a new value by giving it a legal status and social rights (unemployment, pension, etc.). he lists a long list of arguments, the most important of which are that 88% of domestic jobs are held by women, that they are precarious and difficult jobs, that they are generally undeclared and are held by immigrants... however, it is ideological and opens the way to the creation of legal migration channels, which will lead to the legalization of illegal migration.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report points out several truths (precarious and often undeclared jobs, often occupied by immigrants and illegal immigrants) and states that many migrant women occupy these jobs precisely because they require a priori little training and skills. some of the proposals are laudable: professionalizing these trades, introducing a "helpful" leave, introducing tax incentives to take this market out of the underground economy, but he proposes the regularization of clandestine workers and the creation of legal migration routes, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur of this report is familiar with the subject matter of this report. mep konstantina kuneva was seriously injured in december 2008 by a man who threw sulphuric acid in her face. the attack was linked to her union activities as a staff representative in the cleaning industry. the report before us is aimed precisely at recognizing the rights of domestic workers. the report calls for the inclusion of domestic workers "in all national labour and anti-discrimination legislation". it also calls for the ratification and implementation of ilo convention 189 or the introduction of innovative labour inspection processes. i am voting for this report which will ensure the rights of domestic workers.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this report does not blend with the general opinion on a sensitive issue. it recalls several essential facts about the condition of women in these positions. to get out of this underground economy, several useful measures are proposed. but there are passages in the text that risk giving immigration a foothold. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ some proposals are welcome: professionalising these occupations, which will grow as a result of demography, introducing a "helpful" leave, introducing tax incentives such as the employment service to take this market out of the underground economy. but he proposes the regularisation of illegal migration and the creation of legal migration routes. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on this text. while it is true that women in domestic, domestic and childcare jobs are exposed to the risks of precariousness and poverty, i do not support the inclusion in this text of provisions calling on the european commission to put in place a policy of regularization for irregular migrants who violate the law of the country in which they are and who are therefore required to return immediately to their country of origin.
in writing. ‒ some proposals are welcome: professionalising these occupations, which will grow as a result of demography, introducing a "helpful" leave, introducing tax incentives such as the employment service to take this market out of the underground economy. but he proposes the regularisation of illegal migration and the creation of legal migration routes. this is not acceptable to our citizens. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report, written by my colleague and friend konstantina kuneva, member of parliament for syriza, looks at the situation of women domestic workers, domestic helpers and childcare workers in the eu. she knows this sector where she has been a trade unionist for a long time and paid a heavy price for it since she was the victim of an assault. in the eu, 88% of domestic workers are women, the majority of whom are migrants. with little training, they work in this sector mainly to survive and provide for their families. these women work mostly without any employment contract, which makes them particularly vulnerable and deprives them of their basic rights, including social protection. they are often victims of harassment, violence, trafficking in human beings... parliament called on the commission to take action to encourage member states to take action, in particular to professionalize these professions. the report calls for the creation of a european observatory and for member states to apply equal pay and treatment legislation, to combat undeclared work, which is a source of violence, and to ensure the rights of domestic workers, including trade union representation. the european right, unsurprisingly, abstained on this report and i voted for it, of course.
in writing. ‒ gender, again gender, has become the great obsession of the european parliament. the report is about encouraging women to work in areas where we are underrepresented. parliament is meddling in everything and it has become unbearable. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which aims to push women into ict jobs and which is once again a monument of propaganda against a genuine freedom of choice for women. in the name of 'women's empowerment', this report laments that few women are deploying their talents in the ict sector and thus dismisses all studies showing that men and women are complementary and not equivalent or interchangeable. finally, it states that member states should not take any measures allowing women to choose whether or not to work (empl committee proposal) and 'encourages member states to ensure that their tax and social benefits systems are free from any incentive measures that discourage second sources of income from working or working more, as women are generally this second source of income, a fortiori in the ict sector'.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report by the femm committee which, once again, reduces women to the status of oppressed victims, unable to cope on their own but dependent on policies of so-called 'positive discrimination'. the report is concerned that women are not making much use of their talents in the new information and communication technologies sector: it is the public decision-makers who decide for women what they should do with their lives! the fact that some women choose not to work, thus reducing them to economic material to be exploited to the full, whatever their lifestyle choices, is again highlighted. the report also calls for the introduction of a system of taxation that allows women this freedom of manoeuvre. a genuine propaganda text that deliberately ignores the fact that women and men are not interchangeable and that women are perfectly capable of making decisions for themselves. so the real feminists couldn't support him.
in writing. ‒ this report is yet another monument of propaganda against a genuine freedom of choice for women. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in the name of women's empowerment, this report deplores the lack of women in the new information and communication technologies sector. the rapporteur proposes that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the number of people who are in the labour market is increasing. it also introduces the notion of positive balance which corresponds to an unbalanced situation in favour of women, which is absolutely scandalous in that for the first time the european union wishes to promote inequalities in favour of a group of individuals. the rapporteur even goes so far as to propose the abolition of all tax benefits and social benefits which might discourage women from going to work. because this text no longer wishes to leave women the choice of going to work, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ women must benefit as much as men from the developments brought about by the digital age. the digital age is clearly an opportunity for both women and men to find a better balance between private and professional life. true, it is often women who put aside their career to care for the home. with digital technology, this reality can change and we can talk about equal opportunities in the labour market between men and women. this is one of many examples of what digital technology can bring to improve the status of women. equality between men and women must become a reality. we must use all the instruments at our disposal to achieve this. the european union must set an example for the rest of the world in terms of gender equality. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the challenges of women's empowerment in the current context of digital development. the report considers that digitalisation is an opportunity rather than a threat to weaken the social security of employees. however, i regret that the report calls for electronic voting to be introduced in all member states for national elections when this is a decision which is up to the member states in the name of the principle of subsidiarity. i think this is an important subject and despite the reservation i mentioned earlier, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to encourage women to take up information and communication technology jobs. thus, this report sets aside all studies that show that men and women are complementary and not equivalent or interchangeable. it is a new criterion of discrimination, in addition to the usual criteria: it is discrimination on the basis of genetic characteristics. the concept of "positive balance" is also created when a situation is unbalanced to the advantage of women. in view of the ideology that permeates this report and the exploitation of women to support it, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report is once again a monument of propaganda against a genuine freedom of choice for women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which considers the digital age to be an opportunity rather than a threat to women's empowerment, their rights and freedoms. digitalisation is also an additional tool for promoting gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age. i believe that the digital sector offers a wealth of opportunities for women in terms of employment and entrepreneurship. in addition, we must intensify the fight against the 'glass ceilings' that block the professional development of european women, especially in science. finally, it is extremely important to enable women to develop their skills and to ensure gender equality in a sector which is expected to become increasingly important in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age. in the name of women's empowerment, this report laments that few women are deploying their talents in the ict sector. it thus sets aside all studies, and all common sense, showing that men and women are complementary and not equivalent or interchangeable. the concept of "positive balance" is also created when a situation is unbalanced to the advantage of women. it also states that member states should not take any measures allowing women to choose whether or not to work: 'encourages member states to ensure that their tax and social benefit systems are free from any incentive measures that discourage second income earners from working or working more, as women are generally this second income earner, a fortiori in the ict sector'. this is a highly ideological report directed against genuine freedom of choice for women.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is yet another report calling for quotas for women, this time in the field of information and communication technologies. i am a believer in meritocracy, not quotas. finally, as is usual when the eu talks about women, the report cannot help but make an amalgamation between gender equality and the promotion of lgbti rights.
in writing. ‒ the report is against gender discrimination, with the main thrust being to encourage women to go into ict (information and communication technologies). on the pretext that there are too few women in these professions, it denies the very principle of human nature that men and women are complementary and not equal. by introducing the concept of 'positive balance', the rapporteur wants to hide the violence of his propaganda which violates the freedom of women to choose their profession and their future. it also tends to encourage member states not to take any measures allowing women to choose whether or not to work. i voted against this scandalous text.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this text encourages women to enter ict occupations at the risk of an average decline in wages in this economic sector. it adds a new criterion of discrimination, 'genetic characteristics' and creates the notion of 'positive balance', when a situation is unbalanced to the advantage of women. the report states that member states should not take any measures to allow women to choose whether or not to work. it therefore appears to be contrary to genuine freedom for women.
in writing. ‒ women are particularly underrepresented in the information and communication technologies (ict), a sector which is growing rapidly. for example, only 9% of developers are women. the report therefore stresses the need to learn about these new devices at school and to encourage young girls to pursue scientific and technological careers. it notes the possibilities but also the risks of 'teleworking' and insists on a 'right to disconnect' and more broadly, against the precariousness of work facilitated by this development of the 'digital age'. but he doesn't go to the end of that logic. the self-employment now being advocated everywhere, the "uberization" of society, will not help these women but will make them more precarious. i am also against the systematic criticism of 'burdens' on businesses, especially when they are presented as a threat of 'job losses or transfers'. the rapporteur also advocates the german model of negotiation in the company. under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. - this report is disappointing; in this report we learn that the list of discrimination has a new criterion: "genetic characteristics". the paradoxical notion of a "positive balance" is also seen, reflecting the case of an unbalanced situation in favour of women. this is a matter of great importance and should have been given more careful consideration. it is a pity that such a sensitive subject is taken advantage of to impose one's ideology. it seems that everything is done to put women to work. this outrageous propaganda is an obstacle to the free will of women who will end up being hostages of this inveterate feminism. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to encourage women to invest in new technology industrial sectors. the aim may seem to be a laudable one, but the report also states that member states should not take any measures to allow women to choose whether or not to work. for these reasons, i abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the empowerment of women in the digital age. in the digital age, which is revolutionizing the labour market, there are still gaps between men and women in access to job opportunities and training opportunities in information and communication technologies and computer skills. this report calls on the institutions and member states to integrate the gender perspective, which i am very committed to, into all digital initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the full potential of the digital age to be harnessed to promote women's empowerment, their rights and freedoms and equality between men and women. the text calls on the commission, as part of its next strategy for equality between women and men for the period 2016-2020, to take specific measures to support the integration and participation of women in the digital society. the aim is to promote the participation of women in the media and also in the ict sector, which would result in a potential increase in annual gdp of eur 9 billion in the union. women are underrepresented in the digital sector. in order to allow for greater participation of women in this sector, the aim is to encourage a higher percentage of women to take university courses in ict. i supported this text which also calls for more effective action to combat violence against women in the digital world.
in writing. ‒ this report is yet another monument of propaganda against a genuine freedom of choice for women. i am firmly against it. women do not need this kind of propaganda to prove their worth in the world of work any more than men do. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age. the report also highlights the fact that women have less access to information and communication technologies (ict) than men. for example, they represent only 19% of managers and 9% of developers. digital can be a tool of emancipation but it is also the scene of discriminatory remarks, threats, cyber-harassment especially against women. this report seeks to combat these risks and abuses by providing for the possibility of recourse to legal proceedings. it calls for the protection of the fundamental rights of employees to combat precarious working conditions and for significant measures to promote the advancement of women's careers. the position remains ambivalent in the face of teleworking, which is a door open to a number of abuses. digitalisation can lead to a decrease in the number of employees in the social sector, for example, due to the creation of online platforms for filling out paperwork. despite these elements, the report does identify some problems in the digital world. so i voted for it.
mr president, yesterday we had an open house, and it was very good. this led to a real debate, and i was very honoured to be invited to attend. a number of women representatives of civil society came in veils. it was a shock to me. i would like in the future, when we have open houses, you to decide on some sort of common ground which would be to consider that women with veils can come to this assembly, so that this does not happen again. i would like you to give your opinion on the subject, so that on the next day of open doors, the testimony we have to give about secularism, and also about freedom, does not allow for such behaviour.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this joint discussion is welcome because we need to ensure that 2016 provides an opportunity for in-depth exchanges between the commission and the european parliament to prepare, already now, the future post-2020 regulations, and this will greatly facilitate the negotiations ahead. i believe that three priorities should be pursued. firstly, simplification is needed, particularly in terms of access to european funding for the final beneficiaries, since you know that the complexity is discouraging many beneficiaries, and this is also fuelling growing dislike for the european union. secondly, we should consider excluding from the calculation of national deficits the investments made to co-finance cohesion policy, and in particular those implemented in solving the migration challenge and for the integration of refugees. in this respect, i think we should start thinking about sanctions for those states which benefit greatly from the structural funds and which constantly violate the values of the european union and fundamental rights. we'll have to hit where it hurts. thirdly, special attention must be paid to the outermost regions and the full implications of the recent decision of the court of justice of the european union must be drawn.
mr president, we see in this project your willingness to intervene to impose the views of the european union in every corner of the european territory and in all fields on sometimes surprising subjects that we would not think of at first sight. this is the case with your point 49 and gender inequalities. i thought i'd find the problems of the mountain areas elsewhere, which proves that your projects are above all ideological and catch-all. i shall confine myself to agriculture, which i know well. we remain committed to the sovereign strategic states and to crossborder cooperation between these sovereign states, especially since behind this project lies your destructive federalism of nations. moreover, how can a common strategy be developed for such a large and diverse territory? each mountain area has its own peculiarities. only in the alps do we find different cultures. in the high alps, for example, where employment is mainly seasonal, livestock farming is carried out alongside tree-growing crops - i am thinking of apples - so there are two sectors with totally different needs. the diversity and richness of mountain cultures is what makes them special. the french alpine region is therefore a laboratory for the agriculture of the future. farms are medium or even small, specialised but geared towards the local market and short circuits, far from your intensive farming projects to conquer international markets. the regional farmers, on the other hand, are looking to improve their products. there are many protected designations of origin, which explains the development of organic farming and short-circuit marketing, which generates more than half of the turnover. the number of farms in these regions has fallen by 28%, while the average area of farms has increased by 10%: here again we find the result of a cap which encourages concentration. this is not at all what farmers are looking for, and i do not think it is the model that is appropriate for mountain areas.
in writing. the new common fisheries policy includes strict legislation on the placing on the market and traceability of fishery products. we found that the average rate of fraud in labelling is 3.5%. this leads us to demand that the member states enforce the law. the mandatory information must be available to the consumer. states should ensure that such information is accurate and available and should put in place dissuasive and proportionate sanctions against fraud. i would like to go beyond the minimum criteria to frame the labels already in existence. a european public label for fishery products would provide reliable information based on a coherent set of sustainable criteria and recognised by consumers. a single european label would guarantee compliance with high environmental, social and health standards. i would like to end by asking the member states to strengthen controls, because european consumers must know what is on their plate!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, since 1989 the european union has signed fisheries agreements with mauritania. the last one was on 10 july 2015 and will apply for four years. this is a good agreement, because it allows european vessels to fish in mauritanian waters, while respecting a sustainable fisheries objective. it thus limits the volume of fish allocated to freezer trawlers to 247 000 tonnes, compared with 300 000 tonnes under the previous agreement. in return, the eu will pay €55 million per year to mauritania, compared with €67 million in the previous agreement. however, mauritania is a poor state, ranking 161st in the world on the human development index. the commission notes that the 2015 agreement provides for an additional financial contribution of eur 4,125 million per year, compared to only eur 3 million in the previous agreement. the 2015 agreement also maintains the obligation to recruit 60% of the seafarers from mauritania. it is therefore a fair agreement that serves european interests while respecting mauritania. i hope that this agreement will mark a new beginning in our relations with mauritania, relations which have lacked mutual trust in recent years. i wish to do so for two reasons in particular: first, as a frenchman, because mauritania is a french-speaking country and a friend of france. i myself went to nouakchott on an official mission a few years ago and was received admirably. i hope so, secondly, for our collective security, because mauritania is an exemplary partner in the fight against islamist terrorism, and we have every interest in supporting such a reliable ally.
mr president, there are currently 178 million hectares of forests in the european union, and my country, france, is the third largest in area. unfortunately, the wood sector has lost almost 500 000 jobs in france in ten years and the closures of sawmills and carpentry factories are continuing. the commission has also recently announced that it will be closing a sawmill in the lunévillois area of my department of meurthe-et-moselle, with the result that some 30 jobs will be lost. this sad fact is only the result of dumping by china, to which we export our raw wood in bulk at ridiculous prices and return it processed. a pragmatic and environmentally friendly approach would be to produce, use and process raw materials, in this case wood, as close to their place of use as possible, rather than sending them halfway around the world to be returned as manufactured products. many countries now have export quotas on exports to china, which heavily subsidises these companies. the union is banning us from its practices in the name of ultra-liberal dogma. that is why i think it is high time we changed our approach. our saws, our jobs, and the planet will all be better off.
mr president, commissioner pierre moscovici has just said that refugees are a source of growth. he said that the reception of migrants was one of the reasons for economic growth in the euro area, which is expected to reach almost 2% in 2016. he believes that public spending on migrants produces a stimulating effect on the economy, which he estimates at 0.3% of gdp in the european union and even at 0.5% in germany. the reality is quite different. several studies have shown in recent years the catastrophic consequences of immigration for france. a 2012 study by jean-paul gourevitch estimated its budgetary cost to be 17 billion euros. a 2013 study by andré posokhow even estimates it at 84 billion euros, when you factor in all the extra costs of immigration on police, justice, health, education and housing. the conclusion is that the brussels commission is lying to the people of europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to open the discussion, i would like to remind you that the almost total free trade with china has devastated french and european industry. it is you who have imposed these ridiculous border protections on the europeans, promising them that they would be the winners if they concentrated on high value-added products. you've been wrong again. the european countries have paid for this enormous mistake in your stead by losing a large part of their industry and by causing enormous social suffering. in a very predictable way, the colossal differences in wages and the very unequal social, health and environmental regulations have done their work, industries have left entire regions for the chinese skies, workers have been laid off by the millions and have often never found a job again. you promised the europeans that the chinese would be satisfied with the low end and that we would develop the industry of the future. the chinese are now selling us tvs, phones, internet networks, and i'm done. this is a vast field of ruins that your irresponsible policy has left on our soil. today, china is no longer able to grow as fast and has huge overcapacities in many sectors. if you give china the status of a market economy, you are once again professing a huge lie, since this country has chosen to be highly interventionist in its economy. worse still, the rules of the world trade organization will no longer protect us from products sold at exorbitant prices by a chinese industry that is chronically overproducing. do you want to trigger another catastrophe or will you stop making the member states of the european union impotent? there is another way to this absolute free trade, which brings ruin and conflict: it is reasonable protection of borders, it is intelligent protectionism which allows countries to develop their industry, their employment, their wealth. do you remember the havana charter? the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i see the path we should take.
mr president, commissioner, china is obviously a commercial and political partner. we must treat this country with respect and intelligence. the problem is that in europe today, there is no commercial diplomacy. we have a common trade policy but, when it comes to trade diplomacy with china, we have 28 states that act separately from each other. when we mobilised the european parliament on the issue of chinese dumping of photovoltaic panels, what did we find? first, that europe did not have the relevant and sufficiently robust trade defence tools to protect the competitive european pv industry. but we also realized that, all of a sudden, because china is not talking to europe - it's talking to the 28 european leaders - europe has split. we have seen france give in to threats to wine, and greece to threats to invest in the port of piraeus. china has divided europe by threatening every state. germany preferred to sell its machine tools producing chinese pv panels rather than to impose anti-dumping rules. we see it again with the steel industry - one of the countries most affected, the uk, with a prime minister who is still hesitant to do anti-dumping - because we are afraid of china. we cannot therefore give china market economy status unless we have very seriously strengthened our collective capacity to do anti-dumping, as well as our collective capacity to have an industrial policy, to have trade diplomacy and to weigh in as a 28-nation bloc with china and sometimes against china. the order of things is this: to give china the status of a market economy today would be to kill europe politically, it would be to return to the status of a nation-state which weighs nothing and it would be extremely counterproductive from an economic and social point of view.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying that this debate is political, not legal. it is political because it will have an extremely heavy impact on our european economy. secondly, i am very happy with the unanimity. there is complete unanimity in this house. i hope the commission and the council will hear this and take note. we all consider, from whatever bench we are on, that, of course, china is not a market economy and that from that point on things are simple. we must not give it the status of a market economy. it's not more complicated than that, and i hope you hear it. we must act in four directions at the same time. firstly, europe must finally have strong, defensive trade instruments. that's not the case today. secondly, it must have a common industrial strategy and a common investment strategy, particularly in all areas of the future. thirdly, europe must speak with one voice on this issue. there will of course be blackmail by china on the member states. i say to you, let's stick together. we are stronger together, but divided europe will lose. finally, this debate is not just a debate for experts and diplomats, it is a debate for all european citizens. i therefore hope that european democracy will take up this matter.
mr president, it is impossible today to grant china the status of a market economy, and no one is saying otherwise. because this country does not meet the criteria we have set. to give him that status is to discredit all the rules we enforce. to grant it is to put our companies in danger, which are subject to unfair competition in certain sectors. some even put the figure at three million jobs. to grant it this status is to call into question the necessary solidarity on this issue with the united states and japan, which are china's main customers alongside us. our approach to china must be diplomatic, technical, but above all pragmatic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade defence instruments are not undermined by the threat of retaliation from china. i want to protect our european market and at the same time be in favour of free competition, but on the condition that everyone plays by the same rules.
mr president, i welcome the presence of the dutch presidency because the netherlands is one of the member states, along with a dozen other countries, which have been blocking the modernization of trade defence instruments for two years now, with a rare consistency. this has just been said by our colleague, mr bernd lange. that is the problem: at a time when european industry is going through a decisive and critical phase, and when our workers are at risk, you have about ten countries in the council refusing to move forward on this matter, even though the european parliament is unanimous, because it is not just about the market economy status of china. frankly, when we listen to the debate, there is no discussion: china is obviously not a market economy. the question is whether or not europe has the ambition to protect and defend itself, whether or not europe wants to be the idiot of the global village or whether, like the united states, for example, it is ready, at some point, to take drastic measures. we have seen this in the case of photovoltaics, we have carried out an investigation which lasted 18 months where other continents or other countries are able to implement a 200% tax in two months. and that is where the question really lies: do the commission and the council want to listen, yes or no, to the message of parliament for an ambitious europe that defends itself and protects both its workers and its consumers?
mr president, this debate shows, if there were any doubts, that europe has no industrial policy, that europe has no strategy to defend its industry and the millions of jobs associated with it. the only road map is to organise a heated competition and, in that game, the chinese will give us a good beating, unfortunately. because if you're only focused on price policy, we'll never be competitive with china. everything is much cheaper there, including commissioners and ministers. your role - our role - is to defend the interests of european citizens, not just consumers. outside, there are hundreds of workers worried about their future who are asking to be heard and heard. they're worried about their future. you cannot decide for them, without them, because to recognise the market economy status of china is to allow everything that you forbid to the member states. ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, which side are you on? who will benefit from this crime? at least, obviously, not in the workplace.
in writing. china's accession to market economy status would be a veritable dumping license for chinese manufacturers, allowing them to launch major trade offensives in many sectors. supported and subsidized by the chinese government, these manufacturers could even afford to sell at a loss for a few years to eliminate their french and european competitors in our countries. in france alone, recent studies estimate that between 180,000 and 360,000 jobs would be lost. however, as we have seen, relocations to china have led to the loss of millions of jobs in france and europe in strategic sectors such as steel or in more local ones such as textiles in my region. the european union is not here to protect and develop employment but to destroy it. we must deny china this status in the name of economic patriotism!
in writing. the conclusion is clear: china is not a market economy. it does not meet the criteria laid down by the european union and that is why i refuse to accept that this granting can be automatic. such a decision would have catastrophic repercussions on businesses and employment in many sectors already facing the pressure of chinese dumping in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unfair competition. i would therefore like to stress the urgency of modernising our trade defence instruments without weakening them. they must be made more efficient, faster and more accessible to smes. the question of china's economic status should not be reduced to mere legal considerations: it will have major economic and social consequences. many sectors have already mobilized and the european commission must listen to them. europe must not be isolated in its choices on the international scene and must discuss with its partners who are faced with the same question, such as the united states and japan.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, first of all, i welcome the fact that the epp group has insisted on linking this debate on youth employment to the question of growth, because the subjects of employment and growth are really linked. let us not be mistaken, the first of the precarious situations for young people in particular is unemployment. a young person without a job or education has no place in society. he can't take care of himself, he has no home, no car, sometimes even no driver's license. this means that a young person without a job can very quickly find himself or herself marginalised and that work is also a real factor in social integration. today, in europe, growth is still low, very low in some member states, and it has become very difficult for young people to enter the labour market. this is a very serious matter. almost 20% of young europeans are now looking for a job. so what are the prospects for our youth? how can we encourage them to take on new ventures and innovate in europe rather than push them to pursue careers in other continents? how can we avoid feeding this feeling of betrayal that sometimes pushes it into the arms of populists? these are the questions europe must answer, and we will not provide lasting answers by means of subsidies, jobs or emergency measures. young people have ideas, talent, energy. they want to prove themselves. they do not expect their political leaders to give them alms, but to create the conditions for a return to growth and job creation. the commission published its economic forecasts last week, but it has clearly shown the differences and the differences between the member states. so some member states have already made a number of reforms. ireland, portugal and italy are in this situation and have seen their unemployment rates fall. i would also like to highlight the good figures for spain, where new elections are being prepared and where the courageous reform efforts are beginning to bear fruit. unfortunately, this is not the case in all member states. this is not the case in france, despite the repeated assertions of françois hollande and commissioner pierre moscovici, whose optimism seems to be credulous. the "everything is better in france" speech does not stand up to serious scrutiny for a minute. so the fight against youth unemployment requires first and foremost more flexibility in the labour market, better training for young people, better adaptation to the labour market, lower taxes for companies and, above all, real structural reforms to remove the brakes that are holding our economy back.
madam president, youth unemployment is a disgraceful scourge for europe. on average, one in four young people is unemployed and in some countries this is one in two young people with the exception of member states such as germany, the netherlands and austria, which have made apprenticeships the gateway between general education and working life. we also observe that students who have benefited from mobility in a country other than their own are better protected against the risk of unemployment, hence the idea of encouraging apprentices to be mobile by giving them access to erasmus grants on the same basis as students. the difficulty lies in the fact that 28 countries have 28 different learning statutes. the identification and measurement of obstacles to apprenticeship mobility requires experimentation. this is the subject of the pilot project which we will be implementing from next september. i would like to thank you very sincerely, commissioner, for the support and assistance that your services have given us. i simply wish to express the wish that, in the time of simplification, you would protect the experiment from the burdens of the usual procedures which can kill the most promising intentions in the egg. trust and pragmatism to facilitate experimentation.
madam president, commissioner, this debate is an opportunity to remind you of the importance of the fight for youth employment and that much remains to be done in this field. in this parliament, together with the council and the commission, we have put in place the youth guarantee. some say, "but it's not used. what are those six billion? where are they? where are they? " i can tell you that in a number of countries where this matter has been taken seriously, considerable efforts have been made, and we can see how much more is needed today. the youth guarantee is almost a structural reform, it is the introduction of a totally innovative mechanism for many countries. so, of course, you have to adapt the ways of doing things to accompany the young people, and it's not done in a day. at a time when the commission is so anxious to find proposals which are useful both in serving the interests of europeans and in demonstrating the power of the initiatives it can bring, it is time to relaunch this proposal for a youth guarantee, to give it a significant amount - we are proposing the 20 billion as identified by the ilo - to be concerned about the quality of the work thus offered to young people and also to be concerned about whether the period during which young people can benefit from such a guarantee should not be extended, which is a way of putting them on the right track, which is our duty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation to codify the regulation on defence against subsidised imports from third countries. the consolidation does not call into question the substance of the regulation, which seeks to protect states against unfair commercial practices, but seeks, in the interests of transparency, to bring together the various acts which will be incorporated into the new text. the aim here is to transpose into eu law the provisions of the 'subsidies agreement' and the compensatory measures concluded in the framework of the world trade organisation (wto). the agreement set out a series of detailed measures to counter subsidised imports from third countries. i therefore supported this report which protects member states' economies against unfair trading practices through the introduction of a new regulation detailing clearer rules.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to protect member states' economies against subsidised imports from third countries. it is a party to protectionism against unfair practices. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution as the committee had recommended.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes to codify the council regulation of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from third countries. the new regulation thus seeks to transpose into eu law the wto countervailing measures to ensure the transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules, for example by defining the conditions for granting a subsidy or the principles governing the applicability of countervailing duties which may be imposed precisely to offset any subsidy granted. the text should therefore be able to protect the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries. finally, this is the outline of european protectionism, which is more necessary than ever against the unfair practices that penalise our companies, especially in relation to their chinese competitors. i therefore voted in favour of this text. it should be recalled, however, that by a judgment of 2 february 2012, the luxembourg court of justice forced the european union to reverse the only protectionist measures it had ever taken, namely the anti-dumping duties on shoes from china and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ this report on defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries is in fact intended to codify regulation (ec) no 597/2009. this proposed regulation would replace the various acts incorporated therein; it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups them together by making only the formal changes required by the actual codification operation. the regulation should therefore transpose into eu law the provisions of the 'subsidy agreement' and the countervailing measures concluded under the world trade organisation (wto) in order to ensure the transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules. this text is on the right track, because it seeks to protect the economies of the member states against subsidized imports from third countries and thereby contributes to protectionism against unfair practices, which we wish to see. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of legal clarity and transparency, the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from third countries. this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries, thus participating in a protectionism against unfair practices. i voted for it as i did in the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ for the sake of transparency, this report aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from third countries. this regulation lays down the conditions for determining the existence of a subsidy and the principles governing the calculation of countervailing duties on subsidised imports. because this text protects the economies of the european union from certain unfair practices of third countries, i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation. however, let us not be fooled, this regulation will not put an end to unfair international competition, of which our companies are victims, especially within the european union.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report focuses on improving the union's defence tools against subsidised imports from non-eu countries. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of clarity and transparency of the law, this text aims to codify the regulation of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from third countries. the proposed new regulation would replace the various acts incorporated in it. it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups it together, making only the formal changes required by the actual codification process. the proposed regulation aims to transpose the provisions of the wto agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures into eu law in order to ensure the transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules. in so far as this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidized imports from third countries and is part of a protectionist approach against unfair practices, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this text protects member states' economies against subsidised imports from third countries.
in writing. ‒ this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries. it encourages a certain protectionism against unfair practices. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to transpose into eu law the provisions of the wto agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures, in order to ensure the transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries. in the interests of clarity and transparency of the law, the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation on protection against subsidized imports from third countries. this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries. he thus protects them from dishonest practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance. the text also protects the economies of the member states against unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to protect national productions from competition from third countries, with an emphasis on transparency. the aim is to update a 2009 eu regulation which defends subsidised imports from third countries. the proposed amendments are merely formal. the new regulation is now part of the continuity of the 'subsidies agreement' signed in the framework of the wto (world trade organisation). the agreement provides for the transparent application of anti-subsidy rules and sets out compensatory measures to protect states against imported products which may cause them economic damage. this protectionist text rarely defends the economies of the member states. i am very much in favour of this, i voted for it logically.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation. this text is a codification of regulation (ec) no 597/2009 of 11 june 2009 on protection against publicly subsidised imports. this regulation transposes the agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures of the world trade organisation. it is very detailed and defines, in particular, the criteria for defining a subsidy, the application of compensatory measures, etc. we can only support this regulation which relatively protects european production from the market distortions caused by public subsidies.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the text before us aims to codify regulation (ec) no 597/2009 on the defence of europe against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community. this regulation lays down european rules establishing countervailing duties to offset any subsidy granted, directly or indirectly, to the manufacture, production, export or transport of any product from a third country, the marketing of which on the eu market causes injury to competitors. but it also gives the commission full power to amend, suspend or repeal countervailing measures or to provide for total or partial exemption from countervailing duties. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the validation of this report should be followed by a regulation to determine criteria for subsidised imports from third countries. this concern for transparency is part of a protection against such imports. this is a defence against unfair practices. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to transpose the provisions of the wto agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures into eu law in order to ensure the transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules. this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries. it is part of a protectionist approach against unfair practices and can therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries. it also participates in protectionism against unfair practices. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which states that it is a pure and simple codification of existing texts on defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries. the aim is to transpose into eu law the provisions of the agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures concluded in the context of the world trade organisation (wto) negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on defence against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. the text supports the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal is a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. the proposed regulation aims to transpose into eu law the provisions of the wto agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures in order to ensure the transparent application of the anti-subsidy rules. it also provides clarifications on the definitions of the various legal terms.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of legal clarity and transparency, the purpose of this proposal is to codify the council regulation of 11 june 2009 on protection against subsidised imports from third countries. the proposed new regulation would replace the various acts incorporated therein; it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups them together by making only the formal changes required by the actual codification operation. this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries. it is a party to intelligent protectionism against unfair practices. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation to codify the regulation on defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries. the consolidation does not call into question the substance of the regulation, which seeks to protect states against unfair commercial practices, but seeks, in the interests of transparency, to bring together the various acts which will be incorporated into the new text. the aim here is to transpose into eu law the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994. the agreement set out a series of detailed measures to counter dumping from non-eu countries. i therefore supported this text which protects the economies of the member states against unfair trade practices by introducing a new regulation detailing clearer anti-dumping rules.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to protect member states' economies against dumped imports from third countries. it is part of a protectionist approach against unfair practices, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution as the committee had recommended.
in writing. ‒ this is the council regulation of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from third countries. i voted in favour of this text because it should help to protect our companies against unfair commercial practices: it is time for the eurocrats to give up their dogma of the free movement of goods, capital and people. this is the outline of european protectionism, which we are told is being pushed back or contradicted by other provisions. in this respect, it is recalled that, by a judgment of 2 february 2012, the luxembourg court of justice forced the european union to reverse the only genuinely protectionist measures it had ever taken, namely the anti-dumping duties on footwear from china and vietnam. the measures adopted by the european parliament in one of its few moments of lucidity were therefore abandoned. and so the european union then complied with the neoliberal demands of the wto. let us therefore be alert to the application of these new arrangements.
in writing. ‒ this report on defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries is in fact intended to codify regulation (ec) no 1225/2009. the proposed new regulation would replace the various acts incorporated therein; it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups them together by making only the formal changes required by the actual codification operation. the proposed regulation thus aims to transpose the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into union law. this text is on the right track because it seeks to protect the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries and thereby contributes to protectionism against unfair practices which we wish to see. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of legal clarity and transparency, the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from third countries. this text protects the economies of the member states against subsidised imports from third countries, thus participating in a protectionism against unfair practices. i voted for it as i did in the legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ for the sake of transparency, this report aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from third countries. this regulation will transpose the anti-dumping rules contained in the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into union law. this regulation lays down the calculation of dumping margins and the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties. although this regulation does not put an end to unfair international competition to which our companies are exposed, particularly those within the european union, i voted in favour of this text which has the merit of tackling social and environmental dumping, particularly by emerging countries.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the codification of the regulation on defence against subsidised imports from non-eu countries. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to transpose the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into eu law. in the interests of clarity and transparency of the duty, the regulation of 30 november 2009 thus codified would replace the various acts relating to defence against dumped imports from third countries. it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups it together, making only the formal changes required by the actual codification process. as this text protects the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this text protects the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries.
in writing. ‒ this text protects the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries. it emphasizes a certain protectionism against unfair practices. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which codifies the anti-dumping rules contained in the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into european union (eu) law. for example, it lays down detailed rules such as the calculation of the dumping margin, the imposition of provisional measures, the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, the duration and review of anti-dumping measures and the disclosure of information relating to anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation on protection against dumped imports from third countries. the regulation lays down rules on, inter alia, the calculation of the dumping margin, the procedures for initiating and conducting an investigation, including the establishment and treatment of facts, the imposition of provisional measures, the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, the duration and review of anti-dumping measures and the disclosure of information relating to anti-dumping investigations. this protects the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance. the text also protects the economies of the member states against unfair practices.
in writing. - i voted for it. the text is intended to protect member states against imports which are dumped by third countries. it sets out a set of detailed rules that are part of the 1994 general agreement on tariffs and trade, which is eu law. they range from the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, to the calculation of the dumping margin, to the opening and closing procedures of investigations in this context. the text is honest and realistic in being protectionist.
in writing. - i voted for this regulation. this regulation codifies regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. it makes, for the most part, formal amendments to it. this regulation transposes title vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade of the world trade organisation (1994). it lays down, inter alia, the method for calculating the dumping margin, the applicable provisional measures, the conditions for imposing and calculating any anti-dumping duties, the conduct of investigations and the conditions of confidentiality applicable to them. we can only support this regulation, which helps to combat unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community. it is this regulation that enables the eu to fight against dumping by taking safeguard measures. but it also gives the commission full power to amend, suspend or repeal these safeguard measures. i am opposed to this commission's attempt to control the substance of the matter and i shall vote against this technical report.
in writing. ‒ the validation of the report must follow a regulation to determine criteria on dumped imports from third countries. the proposal for a regulation lays down specific rules in this respect. this concern for transparency is part of a protection against such imports. this is a defence against unfair practices. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to transpose the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into eu law. the regulation lays down detailed rules, in particular as regards the calculation of the dumping margin, the procedures for initiating and conducting an investigation, including the establishment and treatment of facts, the imposition of provisional measures, the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, the duration and review of anti-dumping measures and the disclosure of information relating to anti-dumping investigations. this protects the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries. it is part of a protectionist approach against unfair practices, and can therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this text protects the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries. it reinforces protectionism against unfair practices, which is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which states that it is a pure and simple codification of existing texts on defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries. the aim is to transpose into eu law the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of the general agreement on tariffs and trade signed in 1994 when the world trade organisation (wto) was established.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries. the text supports the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal is a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. the proposed regulation aims to transpose the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into european union law.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of legal clarity and transparency, the purpose of this proposal is to codify the council regulation of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from third countries. the proposed new regulation would replace the various acts incorporated therein; it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups them together by making only the formal changes required by the actual codification operation. this protects the economies of the member states against dumped imports from third countries. it is a party to intelligent protectionism against unfair practices. i voted for this text.
madam president, i am opposed to this text because it is part of the logic of the european union's encroachment on the natural resources of a number of countries and it turns out that, in the case of liberia, the situation is all the more unacceptable as 50% of the local population lives off fishing. we have authorized the catching of 3 500 tonnes of tuna, which will thus be taken from the livelihood of the local fishermen. i think it is a totally leonese agreement which will be to the detriment of the local people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to establish a partnership between the european union and liberia in the field of sustainable fisheries. this fisheries agreement is the first between the two parties. it will allow european union fishing vessels to pass through liberian waters and concerns 28 tuna seiners (16 spanish and 12 french) and 6 surface longliners (spanish). the agreement will set up a joint committee to monitor the results and the proper application of the rules of the agreement, which is a step in the right direction. although the shark catching cases do not seem to have been resolved yet, i support this agreement as part of the development of liberia, a country facing civil wars and the ebola crisis. in addition, the agreement is beneficial both for the eu and for liberia, which does not have the means to fight illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to allow, organise and monitor access for eu fishing vessels to liberian waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this first-ever fisheries agreement with liberia. i welcome the adoption of this agreement, which is very favourable to both parties: it offers the european fleet the opportunity to fish in liberian waters while supporting the liberian government in its fight against illegal fishing, a major priority for the european union. the funds from the european union will help to improve the implementation of fisheries regulations by the authorities and the management of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which allows european union fishing vessels access to liberian waters for five years; in return, the eu will have to pay sums that will decrease each year, with the shipowners' share of the compensation increasing over time. while the shark bycatch issue is not addressed by the agreement, it is beneficial to both parties, accompanying the recent development of the liberian economy after ebola and several years of civil wars; the agreement requires shipowners to take on board three qualified liberian seamen per ship. the agreement also responds to the lack of resources in liberia's fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ this eu-liberia partnership agreement on sustainable fisheries is to allow access to liberian waters for eu fishing vessels. the new agreement was signed on 5 june 2015 for a period of five years. this is the first fisheries agreement with liberia. it concerns 28 tuna seiners (16 spanish and 12 french) and 6 surface longliners (spanish). in return, liberia will receive eu funds, namely eur 715 000 in the first year; eur 650 000 in the second, third and fourth years; eur 585 000 in the fifth year, based on a reference tonnage of 6 500 tonnes, and the sectoral policy corresponds to half of these amounts. the eu's share will gradually decrease as the share of shipowners increases. in addition, it was decided that shipowners should endeavour to take on board three qualified liberian seamen per vessel and, overall, 20% of the seamen on board should be of acp origin. overall, this agreement seems fair, especially as the country is emerging from a period of civil war and the aftermath of the ebola epidemic, and this will make it possible to achieve a real agreement on co-development. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the possibility for eu fishing vessels (28 tuna vessels and 6 longliners) to operate in liberian territorial waters under a well-defined quota over 5 years and for a degressive financial compensation as the financial participation of the shipowners increases. the agreement also provides that the funds released will be used to support small-scale fishing and the fight against illegal fishing, which liberia cannot do alone. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement should allow eu fishing vessels access to liberian waters. in return for eur 715 000 in the first year, eur 650 000 in the second, third and fourth years and eur 585 000 in the fifth year, the 28 tuna seiners (including 12 french) and the six surface longliners will be able to catch up to 6 500 tonnes per year. after periods of civil war and the ebola outbreak, liberia's economy is getting back on track and this fisheries agreement supports that recovery. i therefore voted for this agreement which is beneficial for both parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague's report which highlights the benefits of this agreement for the european union and liberia. this is the first agreement between the european union and liberia which will allow eu vessels to fish in liberian waters in exchange for financial compensation to finance access to liberian waters and the development of a sustainable fisheries sector. the agreement provides for fishing opportunities for 28 tuna seiners and 6 surface longliners. the sectoral support available under the protocol will assist liberia in its national fisheries strategy, including in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report gives an overview of the state of play of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement. the rapporteur believes that the protocol will have positive effects for spanish and french fishing vessels. it considered that the positive effect of sectoral support measures on the local economy and coastal communities would be long-term and should therefore be carefully assessed by the commission at the end of the protocol. the rapporteur therefore recommends that the european parliament be involved in the implementation and monitoring of the multiannual sectoral support programme. i believe that sustainable fisheries must be defended and developed at international level through clear, effective and ambitious partnership agreements, and i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the fisheries agreement signed on 5 june 2015 with liberia, for a period of 5 years. the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the ec treaty in respect of the application of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to the fishing activities of certain tuna seiners. half of the sums committed under the agreement relate in particular to support for small-scale fishing, the fight against illegal fishing, surveillance and control. it should be noted that the european financial contribution will gradually decrease as shipowners pay increasingly higher rates of return. the liberian economy is recovering from the civil war and the ebola epidemic, and this fisheries agreement is contributing to this development, while remaining beneficial to both parties. in addition, liberia does not have the resources to combat illegal fishing. i therefore supported the text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: after periods of civil war and the ebola epidemic, the liberian economy is getting back on track and this fisheries agreement supports this development. this agreement is beneficial for both parties.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the eu-liberia agreement, which will benefit both partners. the eu will thus be able to grant access to liberian territorial waters to eu vessels, while the union will provide financial support for the development of the sustainable fisheries sector in liberia.
in writing. ‒ after periods of civil war and the ebola epidemic, the liberian economy is getting back on its feet and this fisheries agreement supports this development. this agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since liberia does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i naturally voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which will allow the european fleet to fish tuna in the liberian fishing zone for five years in exchange for eu financial compensation to promote sustainable fishing. this will have a positive impact on european, and particularly french, fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-liberia partnership agreement on sustainable fisheries. this agreement will allow european union fishing vessels access to liberian waters. after periods of civil war and the ebola epidemic, liberia's economy is starting to recover, and this fisheries agreement supports this development. the agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since liberia does not have the means to fight illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because after periods of civil war and the ebola epidemic, liberia's economy is getting back on track, and this fisheries agreement supports this development. this agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since liberia cannot fight illegal fishing on its own.
in writing. ‒ this text relates to the partnership agreement between the european union and liberia, signed on 5 june 2015. it opens up liberian waters to european fishermen for five years, in return for european subsidies. this agreement has several advantages. firstly, it has made it possible, thanks to european aid, to revive the development of liberia, which has been hit hard by the civil war and ebola. in addition, european funding will be gradually reduced from eur 715 000 in the first year to eur 650 000 in the second, third and fourth years, and then eur 585 000 in the fifth year, on a reference basis of 6 500 tonnes. the agreement will benefit 28 tuna seiners (16 spanish and 12 french) and six spanish surface longliners. it will be under the control of a joint committee which will monitor the application of the agreement. the whole text is positive, so i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. this agreement, signed on 5 june 2015 for a period of five years, is the first signed by the european union with liberia. it allows 28 tuna seiners and 6 longliners access to liberian waters with a degressive contribution from the european union. on the basis of a reference tonnage of 6 500 tonnes, this contribution would rise from eur 715 000 in the first year to eur 585 000 in the fifth year. over the same period, the contribution of shipowners would be gradually increased from eur 55 to eur 70 per tonne. another condition imposed under the agreement is that 20% of the seafarers on board be nationals of an african, caribbean or pacific (acp) state, including at least three liberian employees. the application of the agreement will be monitored by a joint committee throughout its period of validity. we can only support this proposal for an agreement, which is balanced between the two sides. the agreement also provides welcome support to liberia, which has been badly affected by the civil war and, more recently, the ebola virus outbreak. only a false note, we regret that the issue of shark bycatch has not been addressed.
in writing. ‒ under the agreement, the eu is allowed to fish in liberian waters. the report proposes to set up a joint committee to monitor the results. this first five-year fisheries agreement has a decreasing cost to our vessels year by year. this agreement benefits both parties, especially since liberia does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. it also benefits its economy, which has suffered from the ebola crisis and civil war. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to allow european union fishing vessels access to liberian waters for a period of five years. after periods of civil war and the ebola epidemic, the liberian economy is getting back on its feet and this fisheries agreement supports this development. this agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since liberia does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ after periods of civil war and the ebola epidemic, liberia's economy is getting back on track, and this fisheries agreement supports this development. this agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since liberia does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which is the first such agreement signed between the european union and liberia. the exclusive economic zone of this country is vast and rich, and it will make it possible to open up the fishing zones to european vessels, particularly french vessels, and to strengthen controls to protect and conserve the resources of the zone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the conclusion of the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the additional implementation protocol. it should be recalled that this agreement with liberia is in line with the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, as provided for in the common fisheries policy, but also that it has important mutual benefits for both parties. the agreement allows for the responsible management of fishery resources in liberia's tuna-rich fishing zone. finally, i supported this agreement with liberia because it will support the improvement of surveillance and control of the liberian fisheries sector and the exclusive economic zone.
in writing. ‒ eu fisheries agreements, the principles of which have recently been clarified by the reform of the common fisheries policy, must allow eu vessels to access the surplus of seafood held by a third country. the latter therefore sets a tonnage which is granted to europeans and the eu pays it, in exchange, a financial counterpart. under the agreement, europe will also contribute to the development of the liberian fisheries sector through a second financial envelope. this must make it possible, in particular, to eradicate illegal and undeclared fishing on its coasts, by making it possible to finance port infrastructure and, of course, control. in view of the evidence on the effectiveness of the surpluses caught by the eu fleet and the apparent added value for the liberian fisheries sector, i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the agreement is to allow eu fishing vessels access to liberian waters. the agreement was signed on 5 june 2015 for a period of five years. the agreement establishes a joint committee to monitor the results and application of the agreement. this is the first fisheries agreement with liberia. it concerns 28 tuna seiners (16 spanish and 12 french) and 6 surface longliners (spanish). this agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since liberia does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to renew a partnership between the european union and mauritania in the fisheries sector, which is one of the largest fisheries agreements signed by the european union. the agreement will allow european union fishing vessels to operate in mauritanian waters, with a financial contribution of eur 4 125 000 per year, including support for sectoral policy. even if, despite parliament's request, the agreement excludes the cephalopods (octopus) that mauritania has granted to china (which poses a problem for the european union's monitoring of mauritanian waters, as some chinese vessels are suspected of illegal fishing), i support this agreement which is beneficial both for the union and for mauritania, which does not have the means to fight illegal fishing, a fight which would be facilitated if third country vessels were not allowed to fish in the same waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which will allow european vessels to fish for shrimp, demersal fish, tuna and small pelagic fish in the mauritanian exclusive economic zone. in return, the eu will provide €59.125 million per year to mauritania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to renew access for european union fishing vessels to mauritian waters.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to promote the development of local communities and to combat illegal fishing, a major priority for the european union. in addition, this agreement with mauritania improves both cooperation with local communities and support for the european fisheries sector. the two texts also aim to promote the development of local communities and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, a major priority for the european union.
in writing. ‒ the agreement aims to allow eu fishing vessels access to mauritian waters for a period of 4 years: it is one of the largest fisheries agreements signed by the eu. the total allowable catch has increased from 300 000 tonnes under the previous agreement (which expired in december 2014) to 281 000 tonnes. however, the agreement excludes cephalopods (mainly octopuses) that mauritania has reserved for china, which poses problems for the eu in monitoring mauritanian waters, as some chinese vessels are suspected of illegal fishing. the agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement should allow access to mauritian waters for eu fishing vessels. a four-year agreement was concluded on 10 july 2015 with mauritania, one of the largest fisheries agreements signed by the european union. mauritania will receive eur 59 125 000 per year (including eur 4.1 million for sectoral policy) for a total of 281 500 tonnes of catches, compared with 300 000 tonnes previously. unfortunately, the agreement excludes cephalopods (octopuses) because mauritania has granted them to china, and this may pose problems for the european union to monitor mauritian waters, as some chinese vessels are suspected of illegal fishing. nevertheless, the agreement is beneficial for both sides, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the possibility for eu fishing vessels to fish in mauritania's territorial waters under a well-defined quota over 4 very favourable years (281 500 tonnes) and for a financial counterpart of eur 59 125 000 per year, of which eur 4 125 000 will be devoted to sectoral policy and the fight against illegal fishing, which mauritania cannot do alone. for all these reasons, and despite the presence of chinese vessels in the area, which are difficult to control, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement should allow eu fishing vessels access to mauritian waters. in return for an annual financial contribution of eur 59.125 million, european vessels will be able to fish up to 281 500 tonnes. it should be noted that this agreement excludes cephalopods from the fisheries that mauritania had already granted to china. i voted for this agreement which is beneficial for both parties, especially since mauritania does not have sufficient resources to fight illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries agreement between mauritania and the european union. the agreement was initialled after lengthy negotiations between the european commission and mauritania. the result is a balanced agreement which preserves the benefits of the agreement for european vessels and supports the development of local fisheries in mauritania, while respecting the principle of surplus. this agreement is very cost-effective: 98 vessels are fishing under it, but fishing opportunities are limited to the quantities needed. priority shall be given to the european fleet in case of surplus of certain species being identified. this agreement provides for the establishment of a framework for the regular exchange of information on fishing capacity and fishing activities in mauritanian waters, both by domestic fleets and by external fleets or fleets flying the mauritanian flag and dependent on external economic interests. this provision allows for greater transparency of all fishing activities taking place in mauritanian waters.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report deals with the new eu protocol which will allow european fishermen to exploit fishery resources in mauritania's waters for four years. in return, the eu commits to providing €55 million per year (compared with €67 million under the old protocol) to ensure the stability of the fisheries sector in mauritania. the rapporteur considers that this protocol represents a major step forward compared with the previous one and encourages the european commission to continue its bilateral negotiations in a transparent manner. the author believes that this partnership should serve as an example for future agreements between the union and third countries. i have supported this report because i believe that this agreement will promote cooperation between the european union and mauritania in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania strikes a balance between access for european fishermen to surpluses off the mauritanian coast and protection of the marine environment and the renewal of stocks. this compromise is in line with the new cfp objectives of more sustainable fisheries and more responsible management of marine resources. the renewal of the 2014 agreement, which expired, will allow european fleets to catch various fish and shellfish species in return for a payment to mauritania of €70 million per year, of which €3 million will be allocated to the development of local fisheries. this financial contribution will also help to set up a mauritanian fleet so that, when the protocol expires in two years' time, it can fully exercise its sovereignty and exploit the resources of its territorial waters.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to allow access to mauritian waters for eu fishing vessels. the commission notes that the agreement was concluded on 10 july 2015 for a period of four years. the previous one expired in december 2014. this fisheries agreement is one of the most important signed by the european union in this field. the annual financial contribution is eur 59 125 000 per year, based on a total allowable catch of 281 500 tonnes and includes support for sectoral policy, amounting to eur 4 125 000 per year. the agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: a win-win agreement, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries agreement between mauritania and the european union. this agreement will allow european vessels to fish in mauritanian territorial waters while supporting the development of local fisheries in mauritania. in the event of surplus, the european fleet will have priority. i think this agreement is really balanced and that is why i am glad that it has been adopted.
in writing. ‒ this is a win-win agreement, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. it is true that this fight would be facilitated if third country vessels were not allowed to fish in the same waters. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which will allow european fishermen to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. the annual financial contribution that the union will pay to the country for allowing european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone amounts to eur 55 million per year. in addition, eur 16.5 million in financial aid is provided for the duration of the agreement to promote the sustainable development of fisheries and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement. this agreement allows european union fishing vessels access to mauritian waters. the agreement with mauritania is one of the most important fisheries agreements signed by the european union. the annual financial contribution is eur 59 125 000 per year, based on a total allowable catch of 281 500 tonnes. the financial contribution includes support for sectoral policy, amounting to eur 4 125 000 per year. despite the request of the european union, the agreement excludes cephalopods (the octopus), which mauritania has granted to china. this poses problems for the monitoring of mauritanian waters, as some chinese vessels are suspected of illegal fishing. the agreement is beneficial to both parties, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this fisheries agreement because it is fair to both sides. it also has the merit of helping mauritania, which is a reliable partner in the fight against islamist terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to renew the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania. the consensus signed on 10 july 2015 is valid for a period of four years, which is beneficial for both signatory entities. this is one of the eu's largest fisheries agreements, which in turn provides mauritania with more than €59 million a year. it therefore assists the commission in its development and in its fight against illegal fishing. even though the mauritanian authorities have granted china exclusive fishing rights for cephalopods (octopuses), which raises problems of illegal fishing (some chinese vessels are suspected of illegal fishing), i think this text is good. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. the agreement, signed on 10 july 2015, renews for a period of four years the previous agreement, which expired in december 2014. the agreement, which is financed by the european union at eur 59 125 000 per year, grants access to mauritanian waters to eu vessels, with a total allowable catch of 281 500 tonnes. it is regrettable that cephalopods were excluded from the agreement, even though china was granted the right to fish for this species. in view of the suspicion of illegal fishing in mauritania, this exclusion will not facilitate the monitoring of mauritanian waters. apart from this reservation, we support this agreement, which is broadly balanced and is one of the most important agreements signed by the european union in this area.
in writing. ‒ the first fisheries agreement with mauritania was concluded in 1989 and since then several successive agreements have allowed european vessels to fish in mauritania's waters. mauritania's waters are among the richest in the world and although the fishing sector contributes 10% of its gdp, the country under-exploits this natural resource. in the agreement proposed to us, the quota authorized for pelagic freezer trawlers was reduced and mauritania was obliged to employ mauritanian seamen on board for at least 60% of the crew in order to combat local unemployment (30%). in addition, a rule requires european vessels to donate 2% of their pelagic catches to the poor. in these conditions, which seem to me less than ideal, i cannot oppose such an agreement, i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ under the agreement, the eu is allowed to fish in mauritania's waters. the report proposes to set up a joint committee to monitor the results. this first four-year fisheries agreement has a decreasing cost to our vessels year by year. this agreement benefits both parties, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. the fact that european vessels are fishing in areas which are off-limits to third countries will help to ensure that third country vessels do not go there. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to allow european union fishing vessels access to mauritian waters for a period of four years. the agreement seems to be beneficial for both parties, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this is a win-win agreement, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. it is true that this fight would be facilitated if third country vessels were not allowed to fish in the same waters. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement signed between the european union and mauritania, which follows the expiry of the one foreseen for the period 2012-2014. the agreement, which will be in force for the next four years, will allow european vessels to fish for shrimp, demersal, tuna and small pelagic fish in the mauritanian exclusive economic zone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania. the new agreement should address some of the shortcomings of the previous protocol, particularly in terms of transparency and preferential access for the european fleet. i supported this text because it also provides for a better balance in the financial compensation for the fixed fishing opportunities, which translates into a more optimal cost/benefit ratio.
in writing. ‒ eu fisheries agreements, the principles of which have recently been clarified by the reform of the common fisheries policy, must allow eu vessels to access the surplus of seafood held by a third country. the latter therefore sets a tonnage which is reserved for europeans, and the eu provides it with a financial counterpart. during previous discussions, the proposed tonnage of cephalopods by mauritania had given rise to debate and led to a confrontation of various scientific opinions. that's what caused the deal to fail. today, the proposed quotas seem acceptable to all three parties: europe, mauritania and the scientists. the eu will also contribute, under the agreement, to aid for the development of the fisheries sector in mauritania, through a second financial envelope. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the establishment of a european fisheries fund for the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 2000. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to allow access to mauritanian waters for eu fishing vessels. the commission notes that the agreement was concluded on 10 july 2015 for a period of four years. the previous agreement expired in december 2014. the agreement with mauritania is one of the largest fisheries agreements signed by the european union. despite the request of the european union, the agreement excludes cephalopods (the octopus), which mauritania has granted to china. this poses problems for the european union's monitoring of mauritanian waters, as some chinese vessels are suspected of illegal fishing. the agreement is still beneficial to both parties, especially since mauritania does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which confirms a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo. gnss (global navigation satellite system) is the generic acronym for any satellite positioning or geolocation system. galileo is already operational and is being further developed and will be commercially available in 2017. it is worth noting that it is a partner and competitor of the us gps and that unlike its competitors, it will be exclusively under civilian control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, which is both a competitor and a partner of the us global positioning system (gps). galileo, already operational thanks to interoperability with gps satellites, is being further developed at estec, the european space agency's technology centre in noordwijk, the netherlands; it should be commercially available by 2017.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution as the committee had recommended.
in writing. ‒ this proposal, which i voted in favour of, is simply to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, where gnss is the generic acronym for any satellite positioning and geolocation system, which is both a competitor and a partner of the american gps system. galileo is already operational thanks to interoperability with gps satellites and should be commercially available by 2017.
in writing. ‒ this text is a recommendation drafted by a colleague from the enf group and member of the northern league, gianluca buonanno, whose aim is to validate a cooperation agreement concluded with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, both a competitor and a partner of the american gps (global positioning system). gnss is the global acronym for satellites, each one having its own name (gps in the united states, glonass in russia, etc.). after delays and cost overruns, galileo is being finalized and is expected to be commercially available in 2017 while it is still being developed at estec in the netherlands. galileo, on the other hand, will be managed by civilians only, unlike its competitors. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the aim was simply to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, which is both a competitor and a partner of the us global positioning system (gps). i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss (global navigation satellite system) galileo project, which is both a competitor and a partner of the us gps system. galileo is already operational thanks to interoperability with gps satellites and is being further developed at the european space agency's technology centre in the netherlands. it should be commercially available by 2017. i voted for this cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report covers the ratification process of the cooperation agreement for a global satellite navigation system for civil use between the european union and the republic of korea. i have supported this report because i believe that globalisation is leading to the opening up of frontiers, including maritime areas, and that this cooperation agreement will make it possible to simplify cooperation between the european union and the republic of korea considerably.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, which is both a competitor and a partner of the us global positioning system (gps). galileo is already operational thanks to interoperability with gps satellites and is being further developed at estec, the european space agency's technology centre in noordwijk, the netherlands. it is expected to be commercially available by 2017 and, unlike its competitors, galileo will be under civilian control only.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the aim is to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the galileo european gnss project.
in writing. ‒ gnss is the european positioning and geolocation system, entirely civil. it was initiated in 1999 to ensure europe's independence from the american gps and that has always made me sympathetic to this project. it is a pity that the whims of the time, relying first on entirely private financing and then on a public-private partnership, delayed this project, and that it took seven years, if i remember correctly, to finally realize that a public project of this magnitude, like so many others before it (nuclear, space, aeronautics, etc.), could only be based on public financing. but the project is finally on track, seems to be meeting its deadlines, and is attracting more and more countries willing to cooperate. for once, despite the involvement of the european union and the commission, i can only be pleased. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ galileo, already operational thanks to interoperability with gps satellites, is being further developed at estec, the european space agency's technology centre in noordwijk, the netherlands; it should be commercially available by 2017. there was no reason for me to object. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to encourage, facilitate and improve cooperation between south korea and the eu in the field of global satellite navigation for civil use. it is essential that the eu develops its own satellite navigation system (galileo) in order to compete with the us gps system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cooperation agreement with korea on the civilian galileo global navigation satellite system (gnss). this system is both a competitor and a partner of the american global positioning system (gps). galileo, already operational thanks to interoperability with gps satellites, is being further developed at estec, the european space agency's technology centre in noordwijk, the netherlands. it should be commercially available by 2017. we can only hope that this deadline will finally be met.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it confirms a cooperation agreement with south korea on the galileo project, which is a competitor to the us gps.
in writing. ‒ the global navigation satellite system (gnss) is used to provide geolocation and positioning of satellites. it's divided into several custom systems, named by a different sign like gps for the united states. for the european union, the galileo module is being developed by the european space agency. it is a partner and competitor of gps, but has the merit of being under civilian control only. the text put to the vote refers to the cooperation agreement signed by the eu and south korea on galileo. i had no reason to object, so i voted for.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. the aim is to validate a cooperation agreement concluded with south korea on the galileo project. the european galileo system is both a competitor and a partner of the american gps, and is already functional thanks to interoperability with the latter's satellites. unlike its competitors, galileo is placed under exclusively civilian control. currently being developed at the european space agency's technology centre in noordwijk, the netherlands, galileo is expected to be commercially available in 2017. we can only support this partnership agreement, which is aimed at european technological innovation.
in writing. ‒ on 18 july 2005, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the member states, the european community and south korea. a first agreement was signed on 9 september 2006, subject to its subsequent conclusion. the european union must now approve such an agreement. since the agreement is limited to civilian uses of this technology and since this satellite navigation project will counterbalance the total control of these tools by the usa via gps, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the text is to validate a cooperation report concluded with south korea on the european gnss project galileo. it is both a competitor and a partner of the american gps and is said to be under civilian control. it would allow us to measure our distance with the gps system. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, which is both a competitor and a partner of the us global positioning system (gps). galileo is expected to be commercially available in 2017 and is expected to be a viable alternative to the us system. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ it is simply a matter of validating a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, which is both a competitor and a partner of the us global positioning system (gps). so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the cooperation agreement between south korea and the european union on the use of the global navigation satellite system (gnss). this programme is illustrated in particular by the galileo satellite, which provides precise, state-of-the-art positioning guaranteed for all types of civil applications, such as automotive navigation systems, mobile telephones and maritime, road, rail and air transport.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this cooperation agreement with korea is to encourage, facilitate and improve cooperation in the field of global satellite navigation for civil use. furthermore, the agreement is without prejudice to the institutional structure established by community law for the implementation of the galileo programme, to regulatory measures implementing non-proliferation and export control commitments, including control of intangible technology transfers, and to measures affecting national security. i therefore voted in favour of this text, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ the text is simply intended to validate a cooperation agreement with south korea on the european gnss project galileo, which is both a competitor and a partner of the us global positioning system (gps). gnss (global navigation satellite system) is the generic acronym for any satellite positioning/geolocation system: gps for the united states, glonass for russia. galileo, already operational thanks to interoperability with gps satellites, is being further developed at estec, the european space agency's technology centre in noordwijk, the netherlands; it should be commercially available by 2017. unlike its competitors, galileo will be under civilian control only. i voted for the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the new territorial development tools in the framework of cohesion policy 2014-2020: integrated territorial investment (iti) and local development led by local actors (lda). these two new territorial development tools would aim to reduce regional disparities by addressing the financing and cash flow problems of smes and youth unemployment. however, this approach, which would promote the autonomy of local and regional actors, would strengthen the union's powers to the detriment of those of the member states. it should also be noted that with the introduction of these tools, local and inter-communal authorities will be obliged to mobilise substantial financial resources to manage their administrative burden and complexity. the creation of these two tools therefore represents yet another perverse attempt by the eu to appropriate the exclusive competences of the member states by weakening their power to intervene in the field of urban development. so i strongly opposed that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages member states to use new instruments for projects to create quality jobs and opportunities for smes, to stimulate investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social investment and to contribute to poverty reduction and social inclusion, especially in the regions and sub-regions where this is most needed.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes new territorial development tools aimed at directly addressing local needs and challenges, which is a subtle way for the european union to extend its fields of action in urban policy, whereas this should be entirely up to the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution introduces new cohesion policy tools: local development led by local actors (lda) and integrated territorial investment (iti). i believe that territorial cohesion is one of the fundamental objectives of the european union. these new programmes emphasise the implementation of integrated and territorialised approaches to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report promotes the creation of new territorial development tools through iti (integrated territorial investment) and dlal (local-led territorial development) by developing investment in quality infrastructure, particularly in terms of transport, at a time when public investment is stagnating. these new investments could in particular solve the financing and cash flow problems of smes, without however remedying the competitiveness deficit they are experiencing because of the wild globalization encouraged by the eurocrats. finally, these new territorial development tools, which bypass state services, are a means for the commission to extend its fields of intervention and to deal with local and regional entities above the national authorities of the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the new territorial development tools, namely integrated territorial investment (iti) and local development led by local actors (lda), should make it possible, through these tools, to invest in quality infrastructure, particularly in transport. while it is conceivable that these investments could reduce regional disparities, particularly for smes and youth unemployment, it is clear, for example, that in france the scope of the iti is roughly the same as that of the current municipal policy. so again, subsidies to funds lost in our suburbs for a result that can be predicted in advance, even though the average cities or the countryside will still be the forgotten ones of european policies. moreover, these tools will further weaken the states since this is a bottom-up approach whereby local and regional actors gain autonomy, even if substantial financial resources will have to be mobilised for the administrative management of these tools. finally, these tools allow the union to intervene more and more in the competences of the states, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to strengthen and facilitate direct dialogue between local and territorial authorities and the european union, thereby marginalising the role of the member states in regional development. even if these european funds are intended to tackle the financing and cash flow problems of smes, it is obvious that this will not constitute a real answer to the core problem of the lack of competitiveness of these smes in the context of globalisation. the aim is therefore to strengthen the eu's scope for intervention in urban policy in a roundabout way, in opposition to the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report promotes the creation of integrated territorial development tools, which are supposed to compensate for the decline in public investment in the member states as a result of the austerity policies imposed by the european commission. while these new investments may reduce regional disparities within the union as part of cohesion policy, it must be admitted that they will not limit the competitiveness deficit that our smes are suffering from the result of unbridled globalisation. the implementation of these new tools is also based on a bottom-up approach, which gives local actors greater autonomy and weakens the power of national authorities. they are a means by which the european union is extending its sphere of action in urban policy, which is the exclusive competence of the member states. finally, local authorities will have to mobilise substantial financial resources to manage the administrative complexity of these tools, at the expense of taxpayers who will once again be asked to finance the european bureaucracy. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to assess the utilisation rate of projects under integrated territorial investment (iti) and local actor-led local development (ladl) in the context of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. the report advocates active participation by local actors in the effective implementation of cohesion policy and encourages the use of several european structural investment funds (esi). considering that european cohesion policy requires the development of synergies between local actors in order to increase the effectiveness of investments on the ground, i supported these new territorial development tools.
in writing. ‒ this report promotes the creation of new territorial development tools through iti and dlal. in france, however, the scope of the iti's activities is geographically determined by the city's policy. so more money will be poured into the suburbs and peri-urban areas. in addition, local and inter-municipal authorities will have to mobilise substantial financial resources to manage the administrative burden and complexity of these tools, despite the creation of a 'high-level group of independent experts' to simplify the use of these funds and to combat over-regulation. as urban policy is a matter for the member states alone and should not be used by the eu, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: these new territorial development tools are a means for the european union to extend its fields of action in urban policy, which are the exclusive competence of the member states. in addition, local and inter-municipal authorities will have to mobilise substantial financial resources to manage the administrative burden and complexity of these tools.
in writing. ‒ the tomasic report deals with two new european tools of brussels' regional policy, which are supposed to facilitate the access of the territories to european funds. as usual, the names are barbaric: dlal (local development led by local actors) and iti (integrated territorial investment). although these are new forms of tools that existed before 2014, the leader and pui programmes, the aim is to further strengthen the financial and other links between the european union and subregional local authorities, to involve the latter in the consideration and implementation of european policies at their decision-making level, and to justify a european role in national urban policies. the french authorities have of course encouraged these tools, seeing them as a way of compensating, to some extent, for the territorial and financial disengagement of the state. but it must be remembered that these funds, presented as a boon and a boon from brussels, are in fact only a very small return on the money of the french taxpayer, since france is a net contributor of up to 9 billion euros to the european budget. moreover, they can only be a (capped) complement to other public funding and their complex implementation has a significant administrative cost. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these new territorial development tools, which aim to respond directly to local needs and challenges, are a means for the european union to expand its fields of action in urban policy, which are the exclusive competence of the member states. i therefore decided to vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to assess the rate of utilisation of projects under territorial investment and local development led by local actors, under the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. the report supports the bottom-up approach and the involvement of local actors, stressing the need to strengthen administrative capacity. it also encourages the use of a multi-fund approach and the development of synergies to increase the efficiency of investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on new territorial development tools in the framework of cohesion policy 2014-2020. new investment could help reduce regional disparities in the context of cohesion policy, in particular by addressing the financing and cash flow problems of smes and youth unemployment. however, the increase in budgetary transfers in the european union will not reduce the competitiveness deficit of our smes due to the unbridled globalisation. the introduction of these new tools is also based on an approach whereby local and regional actors gain autonomy, further weakening the power of national authorities. these initiatives should be the sole responsibility of the member states. in addition, local and inter-municipal authorities will have to mobilise substantial financial resources to manage the administrative burden and complexity of these tools. finally, these new territorial development tools, which are intended to respond directly to local needs and challenges, are a means for the european union to extend its fields of intervention in urban policy, which are the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. - i voted against this report. indeed, under the pretext of facilitating the release of european funds for territories with low administrative capacity, integrated territorial investments (iti) strengthen the prerogatives of local authorities and intercommunities to the detriment of the states.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the development of territories and local authorities, the report proposes the creation of new tools, the iti (integrated territorial investment) and the dlal (local development led by local actors). however, the scope of action of these tools in france is concentrated on the priority geography, i.e. the suburbs and peri-urban territories. these investments favour local actors, which weakens the role and legitimacy of the sovereign state. it is clear that the eu is seeking to extend its scope of action beyond the prerogatives of the member states. i am firmly opposed to this policy and i am voting against.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report concerns the creation of new financing instruments in the context of integrated territorial investment and local development programmes led by local actors. the scope of application of these new financing tools is wide, from youth unemployment to the financing needs of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the areas covered by these financing instruments correspond to the priority areas defined in france under the municipal policy. we oppose this report for the following reasons: the introduction of new european financial transfers to areas which already benefit from national subsidies does not seem to us to be an appropriate solution to the economic and social difficulties of these areas; the management of these funds is based on local authorities. this way of organising the funds is part of the european strategy of regionalisation, at the expense of the member states' powers. we are concerned about the operational costs that will result from the management of these funds by the local and regional authorities.
in writing. ‒ this report emphasises the rapid implementation of two new cohesion policy tools: integrated territorial investment (iti) and local development led by local actors (lda). behind all this bureaucratic chatter, there is only one objective: to increase the voice of private actors in territorial projects. under the guise of 'good governance', it is the promotion of public-private partnerships. companies with the necessary resources and expertise win the public-delegated market or the dominant voice in the local project. not the associations. and this is followed by the loss of expertise and resources of the state to plan coherent projects between the territories. the report goes so far as to support the "provisions that neither public authorities nor any interest group may hold more than 49% of the voting rights in lags", local action groups supposedly combining these different actors on an equal footing to promote "integrated and multi-sectoral innovative strategies". in this context, the desire to help small towns or tax incentives for the employment of young people or seniors will remain wishful thinking. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report would like to launch new investments through european programmes (dlal and iti) in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives on social cohesion. the use of these programmes will not make it possible to overcome the competitiveness deficit of smes in the face of the ultra-liberalism advocated by brussels. these measures will weaken local authorities. i do not forget that these instruments are a major means of enlargement for the eu. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ these new investments could help to reduce regional disparities in cohesion policy, in particular by addressing the financing and cash flow problems of smes and youth unemployment. but in france, their scope of action is wide-ranging and includes city politics. so more money will be poured into the suburbs. moreover, the increase in budgetary transfers in the european union will not reduce the competitiveness deficit of our smes due to the unbridled globalisation. as these new territorial development tools weaken the power of national authorities even further, local and inter-communal authorities will have to mobilise substantial financial resources to manage the administrative burden and complexity of these tools. vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of these new territorial development tools is essentially based on a bottom-up approach whereby local and regional actors gain autonomy, further weakening the power of national authorities. these new territorial development tools, which are intended to respond directly to local needs and challenges, are a means for the european union to extend its fields of action in urban policy, which are the exclusive competence of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ cohesion between european territories is one of the foundations of the european union. to achieve this, certain tools are being implemented, such as the european structural and investment funds (esif) to promote integrated territorial investment (iti) and local development led by local actors (lda). i voted in favour of this report which assesses the rate of utilisation of projects under these two objectives and which mentions the importance of involving local actors more in the management of projects. these are the actors at local level who are the driving forces behind european cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which focuses on two new instruments to support territories under the 2014-2020 cohesion policy: the integrated territorial investment (iti) and local actor-led local development (ladl) instruments. cohesion policy is the union's main investment policy and is intended in particular to help combat unemployment and meet the financing needs of smes. local actors should therefore take ownership of these new instruments and technical and financial support should be provided. the participation of local actors in cohesion policy, through a bottom-up approach, helps to create a necessary link between the union and its territories.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion is a fundamental objective of the european union, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. cohesion policy 2014-2020 therefore focuses on an integrated and territorialised approach to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion. two new tools have been introduced to achieve this: local development led by local actors (lda) and integrated territorial investment (iti), which will account for around 5% of the cohesion policy budget (€16 billion). although it is still too early to make a real assessment, ruža tomašić's report provides a first assessment of the problems, challenges and prospects associated with these tools. the lack of trust between different levels of government or the weak capacity of local governments to develop comprehensive strategies for their territories are thus identified. these tools should help to overcome these problems by promoting a more rational use of european funds, without creating administrative complexity, which is still far too present. the approach proposed by dlal and iti should be part of future cohesion policy debates. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that the new territorial development tools are innovative instruments in cohesion policy and that they represent a qualitative leap in the ability of local actors to better coordinate grants and plan more limited local initiatives. these two new tools are integrated territorial investment (iti), which allows for better combining the flow of funds from several programmes, and local development led by local actors (ldaa), which aims to strengthen synergies between local actors in order to better target actions. the iti and the lag are therefore vectors for better territorial governance in the context of cohesion policy. i supported this text because it recalls the need to define strategies and to delegate responsibilities and resources wisely to local decision-making levels. in order to be more effective, the involvement of regional and local actors, from the earliest stages, is essential to ensure effective local action, particularly in the fight against youth unemployment and the financing of smes.
in writing. ‒ these new investments could help to reduce regional disparities in cohesion policy, in particular by addressing the financing and cash flow problems of smes and youth unemployment. in france, the scope of the iti's intervention is geographically aligned with the city's policy. so more money will be poured into the suburbs and peri-urban areas. however, it must be admitted that the increase in budgetary transfers in the european union will not reduce the competitiveness deficit of our smes due to the unbridled globalisation. moreover, the implementation of these new territorial development tools is essentially based on a bottom-up approach whereby local and regional actors gain autonomy and weaken the power of national authorities even further. these new territorial development tools, which are intended to respond directly to local needs and challenges, are a means for the european union to extend its fields of action in urban policy, which are the exclusive competence of the member states. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. although a number of measures are designed to strengthen reporting and publication obligations in order to improve the transparency and level of detail of statistics, the purpose of this text is to provide the commission with a large amount of strategic information on financial flows. in addition, the study of these statistics is intended to contribute to the economic governance imposed on the member states. finally, they are intended to certify the conformity of the economic policies of the member states with the general guidelines of the union, which is unacceptable to us.
in writing. ‒ while this report proposes to improve the finesse of statistics on financial flows into and out of the eu, it is a question of entrusting the commission with a very large amount of strategic information on financial flows. moreover, these statistics are not just for scientific purposes. their primary purpose is to serve as a means of economic governance imposed on the member states. they help to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the union's broad guidelines, as well as with the legal obligations deriving from the union's economic governance framework. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ these statistics are part of the general framework of the union for monitoring economic developments in each member state and in the union as a whole. i believe that in a world where international capital flows have increased and become more complex, the production of reliable statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is essential for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. these tools will help to ensure better traceability of these flows and to combat tax evasion. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report follows the interinstitutional negotiations on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on statistics on financial flows into and out of the eu. the objective is to strengthen reporting and publication requirements to improve the transparency and level of detail of statistics by integrating into the reports recent regulatory innovations related to the fight against money laundering and tax evasion, such as the public registers of beneficial owners established by the anti-money laundering directive. however, this report does provide the commission with a great deal of strategic information on financial flows, especially since these statistics serve more than a scientific purpose: they also serve to strengthen the economic governance imposed on the member states. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report, despite its original draft which was not without relevance.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics is to strengthen reporting and publication requirements in order to improve the transparency and level of detail of statistics. it is proposed to add various points on recent innovations in the fight against money laundering and tax evasion. for example, the international identifier for legal entities, which is part of the oecd proposals to improve reporting on financial account information, or the eurogroups directory or the international identifier for legal entities. the report also aligns the provisions of the lisbon treaty on delegated acts and implementing measures by redefining the essential elements that the commission could amend and by extending the time limit for parliament to object to those amendments. unfortunately, i note that this report actually proposes to entrust a lot of strategic information on financial flows, even though it is a question of improving the fineness of statistics, but we know that this will mainly enable economic governance to be imposed on the states. so i abstained overall.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of this report is to provide the european commission with statistics on financial flows into and out of the eu, which may legitimately be questioned as to what purpose they are to serve. these are sufficiently precise and detailed to be, in my view, the responsibility of the strategic governance of each state rather than the responsibility of an international organisation, even a european one. i am afraid that this information is really just used to assert the commission's supremacy over the member states in economic management. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen reporting and publication requirements to improve the transparency and accuracy of balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. it is therefore proposed to include in particular the international identifier of legal entities, the public registers of beneficiaries set up by the directive to combat money laundering. i abstained on this report, which will provide the european commission with a great deal of strategic information on financial flows. these statistics will also help to certify the consistency of the economic policies pursued by national governments with the general guidelines of the union.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to amend the regulation on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics in order to adapt it to the new institutional framework. the proposal aims in particular to clarify the commission's powers, in the context of its powers to harmonise the content of quality reports. i have supported this report because i believe that the reliability of the external trade statistics of the european union is essential to the definition of an effective export strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a revision of regulation (ec) no 184/2005. the revision of this regulation makes it possible to improve the transparency and level of detail of balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. it also aligns the regulation with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon which give the commission the power to adopt delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ this report covers balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. the objective is to improve the transparency and level of detail of statistics by strengthening reporting and publication obligations through recent regulatory innovations related to the fight against money laundering and tax evasion. the report aligns the provisions of the lisbon treaty on delegated acts and implementing measures by redefining the essential elements that the commission could amend and by extending the time limit for parliament to object to those amendments. the text is intended to provide the commission with a large amount of strategic information on financial flows. it appears that these statistics are mainly intended to ensure that the economic policies of the member states are in line with the union's guidelines, particularly economic ones. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the commission will be entrusted with a large amount of strategic information on financial flows. moreover, these statistics serve a non-scientific purpose and help to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the general guidelines of the union.
in writing. ‒ while this report proposes to improve the finesse of statistics on financial flows into and out of the eu, it is a question of entrusting the commission with a very large amount of strategic information on financial flows. moreover, these statistics are not just for scientific purposes. their primary purpose is to serve as a means of economic governance imposed on the member states. they help to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the union's broad guidelines, as well as with the legal obligations deriving from the union's economic governance framework. i therefore abstained from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to increase the transparency and level of detail of community statistics. it called for stricter publication requirements to take advantage of recent innovations. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment statistics. although this report proposes to improve the fineness of the statistics relating to financial flows into and out of the union, the aim is to give the commission a great deal of strategic information on financial flows. moreover, these statistics are not just for scientific purposes. their primary purpose is to serve as a means of economic governance imposed on the member states. they help to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the union's broad guidelines, as well as with the legal obligations deriving from the union's economic governance framework.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, while it changes the calculation of balance of payments statistics, it also gives the commission a lot of information.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to improve the fineness of these statistics and their transparency. to this end, he lists a number of proposals. the report also calls for the commission to be given the necessary powers to monitor the implementation of the directive and to ensure that the member states are able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it aggravates the economic governance suffered by the member states. i am firmly opposed to this text and i voted against it.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. this report amends and supplements regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on community statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade, services and foreign direct investment. it strengthens the transparency requirements for trade and financial flows into and out of the european union. in particular, it introduces an international identifier for legal entities (in line with a proposal by the oecd). the coordinated survey on foreign direct investment, drawn up each year by the international monetary fund, could thus be presented with a breakdown by country. the original intention of this agreement was to increase the transparency of financial and trade flows to and from the european union. while this intention is laudable, we cannot support its underlying objective of strengthening the economic governance of the european union at the expense of the prerogatives of the member states. in particular, we denounce the exorbitant powers which this text confers on the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the giegold report on balance of payments statistics by a very large majority. it calls for greater transparency in international capital flows. it is essential that balance of payments data should no longer be manipulated by the trusts or certain opaque financial companies in tax havens. from now on, it will be possible to see the starting and ending points of investment flows. eurostat and the member states will now have to publish data on capital flows in a clear and accessible way. eurostat and the member states will also include data from future registers on final beneficiaries of trusts in capital flow statistics. these changes will shed much-needed light on the murky world of investment flows. transparency on direct investment flows also needs to be improved. coordination between the member states and the european commission must now aim at improving statistics to better understand whether direct investment creates jobs or merely serves to take over companies. i naturally voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the production of statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment serves to monitor developments in current accounts and financial flows within and beyond the union. the increased use of special purpose entities and legal arrangements for the transfer of capital inflows and outflows has increased the difficulties in controlling these capital flows, making it more difficult to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. to remedy this, the report proposes to increase the transparency and level of detail of these relative statistics. and although these statistics also serve to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the general guidelines of the union, particularly in the context of the surveillance procedures concerning macroeconomic imbalances, i am in favour of this transparency effort.
in writing. ‒ by making the reporting obligations of the parties concerned more stringent, the text aims to refine the statistics on financial flows, in a process of transparency. it is a good thing that the european commission was not given a lot of strategic information. while the commission does not have the power to change the regulation of acts, these statistics will still serve as an instrument of economic governance towards the member states by the eu. indeed, statistics will be largely significant of the good discipline of the states with regard to its economic orientations. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ while this report proposes to improve the finesse of the statistics relating to financial flows into and out of the union, it is a question of entrusting the commission with a very large amount of strategic information concerning financial flows. moreover, these statistics are not just for scientific purposes. their primary purpose is to serve as a means of economic governance imposed on the member states. they help to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the union's broad guidelines, as well as with the legal obligations deriving from the union's economic governance framework. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out technical amendments to bring european statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment into line with the new rules of the european statistical system.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to harmonise community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. the revision of the european framework in this area is important because it should enable us to anticipate economic disruptions and thus crises better. in 2008, poor macroeconomic statistics prevented us from identifying the scale of the phenomenon affecting europe and the world. the harmonisation of these data is therefore essential. the socialist and democratic group succeeded in strengthening the commission's proposal to improve the quality of the data collected. this should help us to understand better the interconnectedness of our economies or the role of investment in job creation, for example. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the regulation on balance of payments statistics, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. reliable statistics allow for better monitoring of financial flows and are useful in the formulation of the economic policies of the member states and the general guidelines of the union. since the adoption of the 2005 regulation on the compilation of these statistics, the context has changed and international capital flows have increased. it was therefore necessary to revise that regulation in order to enhance the transparency and level of detail of the statistics and to bring it into line with the treaty of lisbon and its provisions. this revision will improve the quality of data and strengthen the statistical calculation.
in writing. ‒ while this report proposes to improve the finesse of the statistics relating to financial flows into and out of the eu, it is a question of entrusting the commission with a very large amount of strategic information concerning these financial flows. moreover, these statistics are not just for scientific purposes. their primary purpose is to serve as a means of economic governance imposed on the member states. they help to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the union's broad guidelines, as well as with the legal obligations deriving from the union's economic governance framework. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on cohesion policy in mountain areas. in view of the fact that european mountain regions suffer from a lack of administrative capacity, particularly in terms of transport, which isolates local populations and encourages unemployment, the text suggests the creation of macro-regional strategies intended to strengthen synergies and complementarity between the european structural funds, with the support of local authorities. the introduction of this new strategy represents yet another perverse attempt by the eu to appropriate the exclusive competences of the member states, by weakening their power of intervention, to the detriment of the national authorities of the member states (who are not mentioned at any time in the text). it should also be noted that this text is part of the new territorial architecture proposed by the european commission, which, in the short term, may threaten the sustainability of crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a large majority a report on cohesion policy in mountain areas. in this report we ask the european commission to coordinate its policies better and to set up an ambitious policy for mountain regions. it is clear that there is no real european strategy for the mountains. mountain regions today face many problems, such as their difficult access, the low number of job opportunities, the aging population, the lack of connectivity, not to mention the impacts of climate change. these are fundamental challenges that require vigorous action by the public authorities. we are in favour of better access to european financing for mountain areas, in order to maintain the diversification and complementarity of economic activities in these very fragile regions. the maintenance of agricultural production in mountain areas is a major challenge in terms of employment and the environment. through the cap and its cohesion policy, the european union must invest more in these specific areas simply to keep them alive.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed in principle to the establishment of macro-regional strategies which limit the scope of action of national governments. the european union is seeking to expand its sphere of influence by strengthening its relations with local authorities. the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on legitimate relations between nation states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to reduce the difficulties in investing in the mountains due to the lack of infrastructure and the extra costs of isolation. it is important to highlight the abundant natural resources and assets of mountain regions which contribute to a better social, economic and territorial cohesion by ensuring sustainable economic development in the mountains.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that special attention be paid to mountain regions which suffer from a lack of investment, and therefore of infrastructure, leading to unemployment, poverty and rural exodus. the committee therefore calls for a specific european policy for mountain regions to be defined in order to strengthen synergies and complementarity between the european structural funds. the report recommends that macro-regional strategies be set up with the support of local authorities at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states. and while the report points to the difficulties faced by smes and farmers in mountain regions, particularly in terms of financing and cash flow, it does not call into question the decisions of the european commission, which is often responsible for these difficulties: the end of milk quotas, the russian embargo, environmental standards, administrative overload, etc.
in writing. ‒ i note with satisfaction in this report that for the first time mountain regions are receiving specific attention from the european institutions and cohesion policies. the mountain regions have been incorporated into the latest political reform of the cap, which i regard as a great step forward for a sector where farmers often face significant natural and economic handicaps. yes, we must help farmers to maintain their agricultural production in mountain areas. yes, they must be given specific aid when there is a need or an emergency. yes, we must pay particular attention to small farms and family farms for which the administrative and tax burdens are too heavy to survive. the mountain regions, and in france we have many, have abundant natural resources, assets linked to the diversity of energy sources and are centres of green growth. let us not exclude them from european policies and let us allow them to be pillars of sustainable growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ this report on cohesion policy in the eu's mountain regions indicates that these regions are structurally disadvantaged due to a lack of infrastructure, particularly transport. these regions would also face a greater increase in unemployment and poverty, thus contributing to social exclusion, rural exodus and population ageing. the report proposes to remedy the problem by defining a specific european policy for mountain regions by increasing and channelling the possibilities for union funding. macro-regional strategies should be set up with the support of local authorities at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states. the report also makes a number of fair findings on the difficulties of smes or farmers without calling into question the commission's policies. i therefore voted against this report because i do not want the union to extend its prerogatives any further to the detriment of the nation states.
in writing. ‒ while i agree that mountain regions are disadvantaged in terms of transport, unemployment and poverty, i would have preferred this report to highlight the causes of this poverty: it is clear that the european commission's policy on milk quotas, environmental standards and administrative overload has contributed considerably to the aggravation of this poverty. instead, the report advocates the establishment of macro-regional strategies which would only weaken the states concerned and jeopardise the current successful cooperation of these neighbouring states in cross-border matters. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as cohesion policy aims to reduce regional disparities within the european union, this report proposes to pay particular attention to mountain regions which suffer from a lack of investment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the rapporteur also recommends strengthening synergies between the european structural funds. the report also calls for the establishment of macro-regional strategies with the support of local authorities, which we strongly condemn as they limit the sovereignty of the member states. the european union is, as usual, keen to extend its sphere of influence by strengthening its relations with local authorities. the macro-regional strategy in the alps and the carpathians is therefore simply aimed at strengthening the commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term threatens the sustainability of crossborder cooperation based on healthy relations between member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions face specific challenges that need to be addressed through targeted policies. these regions have a huge potential for growth and job creation despite the handicaps of their geographical location. the importance of agricultural production in its regions should also be emphasized. it is therefore necessary to match the objectives of cohesion policy to these geographical specificities in order to allow for an adequate use of the structural funds and to strengthen synergies between relevant european policies. i voted in favour of this balanced report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the contribution of european cohesion policies to the economic, in particular agricultural, and social development of mountain regions. the report highlights the development opportunities for growth and jobs, the strengthening of craft activities, tourism and renewable energy production, and the need to combat poverty and social exclusion in mountain areas. i was particularly involved in this report as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. agricultural activity plays an essential role in these regions, particularly in terms of economic development and social cohesion. in this respect, the cap has developed a whole series of tools to fix agricultural production in mountain areas and to help its development and diversification. it is regrettable, however, that despite numerous sectoral measures in the framework of european policies, there is currently no european mountain policy. in addition, the absence of an operational definition of mountain regions in cohesion policy (only in the context of rural development policy) is an additional difficulty. the final report was of excellent quality and i supported it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the cohesion policy in the mountain regions of the european union. in mountain areas, smes face serious difficulties due to lack of access, infrastructure and connectivity. it is therefore essential that the commission pays particular attention to the development of these smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion policy in the mountain regions of the european union because these regions have many assets which must be exploited, in particular through agricultural production, but also through sustainable tourism and the exploitation of renewable energy sources. i hope that by supporting this report we will send a strong signal to combat the isolation and poverty of mountain areas. european territorial cooperation must take account of the natural and geographical specificities of these regions so that they are no longer handicaps but assets. i would like to stress that mountain regions can be sources of employment and growth, and it is therefore in everyone's interest that they should be given real consideration in european policies.
in writing. ‒ mountain regions are facing serious difficulties and need to be better supported in accordance with the principle of solidarity between the territories of the european union. at the same time, a certain level of economic and social development must be guaranteed and the difficulties created by accessibility in transport and a declining demographic must be addressed. it is therefore essential to establish appropriate links with urban and lowland areas and to guarantee access to digital services. mountain areas, with their preserved ecosystems, can serve as a base for many economic activities. mountain regions have preserved living conditions, retain traditional know-how and offer considerable potential for conversion to quality agricultural systems at the heart of a well-thought-out cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ in order to reduce regional disparities within the european union, this report recommends that special attention be paid to mountain regions which suffer from a lack of investment, particularly in transport, but also from unemployment and poverty, which contribute to social exclusion, rural exodus and the ageing of the local population. to remedy this, it is proposed to set up macro-regional strategies with the support of local authorities at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states. as these are the essential partners for the success of any crossborder cooperation project, i did not feel obliged to support a macro-regional strategy promoted by the eu. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we are absolutely opposed to the introduction of macro-regional strategies which limit the scope of action of national governments.
in writing. ‒ the iotova report seems to be a good one: it aims to define a specific approach to european regional policies for mountain regions, taking account of their specific difficulties. but the resulting european programme should be, i quote, a 'framework contributing to international, crossborder and interregional policies'. we are on the other side of the national dismantling of what brussels calls the cohesion policy. the tomasic report, which has just been voted, dealt with the infra-regional authorities (urban and peri-urban areas, coastal areas, priority districts) without too much concern for their administrative boundaries. the iotova report, on the other hand, falls into the category of encouraging 'macroregions'. these are crossborder cooperation, including with areas of countries outside the european union, cooperation which increases the blurring of not only the internal but also the external borders of the union. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. the mountain regions are territories too often neglected. the south-east constituency is particularly affected by this problem: mountainous areas cover 75% of the territory in rhône-alpes, 50% in paca and almost all of corsica. however, these regions do not benefit from a specific policy which takes account of their natural, social and economic particularities. that is why i voted for this resolution, because it is high time that a european agenda for mountain areas was created. it is necessary to define clearly what a mountain area is at european level in order to put in place a comprehensive european strategy for these regions. they need additional support to face their own unique challenges. these areas are affected by many geographical handicaps on the one hand and structural handicaps on the other. but they also have specificities that can be an asset, whether in terms of agriculture, biodiversity, resources or cultural heritage. the resolution that has just been voted could serve as the basis for a european strategy investing, among other things, in green jobs, smes and agriculture. given the right tools, mountain areas will be able to meet their own unique challenges.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the auvergne region, i am particularly attentive to the issue of mountain regions and therefore i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted a report on this important subject. the mountain regions are in a special situation because of their permanent natural and geographical handicaps. however, these handicaps can be exploited because these particularities also make them attractive and useful. the european union should therefore encourage initiatives to strengthen agricultural production and develop sustainable tourism, but it should also pay particular attention to all the difficulties associated with the lack of infrastructure, such as access to broadband, as well as isolation, poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to the establishment of macro-regional strategies that limit the scope of action of national governments. the european union is seeking to expand its sphere of influence by strengthening its relations with local authorities. as such, member states are almost never mentioned, although they are the essential partners for the success of any crossborder cooperation project. the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on healthy relations between nation states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the potential for development of mountain regions, in particular through tourism and renewable energy, even though these mountain regions are in a special situation because of their natural and geographical handicaps. the report therefore aims to enable mountain regions to make the most of the opportunities offered by cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the cohesion policy in the mountain regions of the european union. the report rightly recommends that special attention be paid to mountain regions which suffer from a lack of investment. the report, however, advocates the establishment of macro-regional strategies with the support of local authorities, to the detriment of the sovereignty of the member states. i am opposed to the establishment of macro-regional strategies which limit the scope of action of national governments. the european union is seeking to expand its sphere of influence by strengthening its relations with local authorities. as such, member states are hardly ever mentioned, although they are the essential partners for the success of any crossborder cooperation project.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it claims to allow the union to manage mountain areas, and in particular the animal species living there, whereas i believe that this should remain a competence of the states. he wants to set up 'macro-regional strategies' which tend to replace regions with states, which i absolutely reject.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the rapporteur, although making a realistic assessment of the difficulties of mountain regions, is inclined to seek solutions to strengthen the european union's intervention. it is true that these areas suffer from unemployment, poverty, ageing and social exclusion, which is exacerbated by the exodus from the countryside. however, the eu is not addressing the problems by setting up macro-regional strategies, which place local elected representatives as interlocutors and direct responsible for the development of these territories. it is, in fact, an attack on the sovereignty of the member states and a threat to the goodwill of nations. through this text, the eu simply aims to extend its influence by appropriating the right to conduct regional policies involving several countries.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report also mentions the common ground that mountainous areas are more prone to the evils associated with social exclusion (poverty, unemployment, ageing of the population) because of their isolation. the proposals in the report to remedy this situation are, once again, an interference with the prerogatives of the member states. by proposing the management of the structural funds in partnership with the competent local and regional authorities, the european union is putting into practice its desire to dilute the nation state by regionalising the european territory. we are firmly opposed to this view of our territory, and we can only reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to work towards a common definition of mountain regions which would make it possible to better recognise the structural difficulties of these territories: remoteness, depopulation, the additional costs of transport and access, the lack of investment. such a definition would make it possible to better allocate cohesion policy funds. and these territories also have underestimated challenges and strengths, particularly in terms of renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, the fight against climate change, especially through their glaciers, etc. despite disagreements, such as the promotion of projects as questionable as the current lyon-turin high-speed train or public-private partnerships, i am voting for this text which takes into account the outermost regions and their volcanic islands, which live in the fragile and permanent balance of the threat of natural disaster and unique biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ the european union's macro-regional strategic enterprise is problematic in that it serves national governments. the eu follows its own logic, eliminating intermediaries, obstacles to its power, to be directly and increasingly linked to local authorities. this is evidenced by the absence of any reference to member states in a case which concerns them first and foremost. i fear for the good cooperation of the peoples in these regions if a third power comes to impose it on all. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ we are absolutely opposed to the establishment of macro-regional strategies that limit the scope of action of national governments. the european union is seeking to expand its sphere of influence by strengthening its relations with local authorities. as such, member states are almost never mentioned, although they are the essential partners for the success of any crossborder cooperation project. the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on healthy relations between nation states. vote against it.
in writing. ‒ we are absolutely opposed to the establishment of macro-regional strategies that limit the scope of action of national governments. the european union is, as usual, keen to extend its sphere of influence by intensifying its relations with local authorities. as such, member states are almost never mentioned, although they are the essential partners for the success of any crossborder cooperation project. the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation, the basis of healthy relations between nation states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union's cohesion policy is fundamental to the constant search for solidarity and harmonisation of european territories. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the potential of europe's mountain regions, which face geographical and natural handicaps. i would like to mention the languedoc massif or the pyrenees in my region. despite these difficulties, the european union and the member states must recognise the potential for growth and jobs in these areas, particularly in the fields of agriculture, tourism, sport and renewable energy. finally, the european commission is invited to adopt an action plan to ensure that mountain areas are taken into account in a comprehensive manner in the various policies decided at european level.
in writing. ‒ this text deals with cohesion policy, focusing on its implementation in mountain regions. i would remind you that mountain areas make up about 30% of the territory of the european union and a significant part of my constituency. we are putting forward various proposals to assist mountain regions in meeting the challenges they face, which is why i have supported this text. our proposals concern in particular the issues of employment and growth in these regions, environmental protection against climate change, and accessibility and connectivity. cohesion policy must support mountain regions so that they are oriented towards the future while ensuring that these territories preserve their identity and their history.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the importance of the union's mountain regions. these regions rarely receive specific attention in cohesion policy, even though they make a decisive contribution to european objectives in a multitude of areas. the text calls on the commission to take account of the specific features and strengths of mountain regions and to draw up a programme for european mountain regions. the coordination of the union's policies, strategies and programmes which have direct consequences for mountain areas must be strengthened. greater coherence will be achieved for the benefit of employment and economic growth in mountain areas, but also for sustainable growth, the environment and accessibility of these mountain areas. i supported this text, which calls for special attention to be paid to the development of smes, to improve the marketing of agricultural products, to promote better access to public services, but also to concentrate european efforts on the use of renewable energies in these mountainous areas. there is an urgent need for a more coherent and better coordinated european policy towards mountain regions in order to exploit their full potential.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the establishment of macro-regional strategies that limit the scope of action of national governments. the european union is seeking to expand its sphere of influence by strengthening its relations with local authorities. as such, member states are almost never mentioned, although they are the essential partners for the success of any crossborder cooperation project. the macro-regional strategy in the alpine, carpathian and ionian regions is simply aimed at strengthening the european commission's project for a new territorial architecture, which in the short term may threaten the sustainability of cross-border cooperation based on healthy relations between nation states. i am voting against this text.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for being with us. i am glad to hear you say that the discussions at the eurogroup have been more constructive and that the horizon is becoming clearer. we are aware of that. i'm still a little embarrassed because it seems that our discussions here are those of insiders, of people who see things from the inside in a rather technical way. the truth for everyone else, for all european citizens, greek or not, is that it has been six years - it has been said by previous speakers - that we have summits on greece, exactly six years, since it was the weekend of 9 and 10 may 2010. it has also been six years since mario monti's report on the single market was presented, for example, and it is clear that the lack of growth and the lack of investment which the juncker plan is trying to compensate for are also due to the considerable slowdown in the union of twenty-eight. we are constantly told that the eurozone is the problem, but i do not see any significant progress or glimmers of genius in the union of twenty-eight. these discussions, always the same, really do give a feeling of being trampled. as far as the procedure is concerned, it is clear that not much progress has been made either on the legitimacy of the institutions which take these decisions. i say this with a certain sense of responsibility. of course, it's not obvious, of course, we did what we could. doing what you can in an emergency is one thing; but the fact that we are still going ahead and we are not seeing the colour of the implementation, nor of the five presidents' report, nor of the previous four presidents' report, nor of the commission's blueprint is another matter, and we have at the moment the feeling that a euro zone is eluding us. brexit was a fantastic missed opportunity to look at the future of the eurozone. there was a way to make a very different settlement than the one that was made outside of the treaties in a rather foolish way. but what worries me most about what you said is the number of things that are being postponed until 2018. commissioner, are they being postponed until 2018 because it is in the interests of greece or because there are elections in france and germany?
madam president, for the last six years the negotiations between the european institutions and greece have presented us with the most sinister spectacle of all: financial cavalry and the inability to reach a decision. if greece has come to the brink of bankruptcy, it is as much its responsibility, through the falsification of its public accounts, as that of the creditors, through their culpable blindness. as early as 2009, they should have acknowledged their losses in order to bring the greek debt to a sustainable level and leave it to the national authorities to find the appropriate democratic answers to win the trust of the lenders they needed. instead, patterns have been constructed that are as incomprehensible as they are intolerable. how can we leave a country with a public debt corresponding to twice its gross domestic product? today the euro area is in danger, commissioner. the stability and growth pact is no longer respected and its governance is ineffective. it is cynical to make loans to pay off past debts that are due. we are prolonging an illusory situation that can only lead to drama. diplomatic discussions behind the scenes of power must give way to political arbitration and realism.
madam president, it seems we are on the right track. it has been a long time since alexis tsipras came to power that reforms have begun to be adopted in greece. it is a pity that we have wasted so much time, since we remember that under the samaras government we saw growth picking up in greece. however, we must now be pleased with some concrete progress and say that the first to make this progress is the greek people. you have to give him credit for being very brave. the greek citizens have had to put up with a lot of effort without seeing any direct benefits. they are still going through a very difficult period. they too are on the front line, having to bear the consequences of the policy of waiting and systematic opposition to every embryonic reform. there are still too many disparities in greek society, there are still too many privileges for some and too much misery for others. it must therefore be clear that the eurogroup has not given greece its blessing. the greek government must be very aware that european flexibility is conditional on the actual progress of reforms. i am glad that the eurogroup has been able to start discussing a possible debt adjustment, since greece's debt still stands at 180% of gdp. such an arrangement can only be understood and accepted by european public opinion if it is, of course, the counterpart of real efforts to consolidate and improve the country's economy. but now we must finally recognize that without european solidarity, even if it is criticized by some, greece would be plunged into an even more serious crisis. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". the only observation i can make is that during the time of mr samaras, there was already a recovery in growth in greece. i remember talking about it myself because, unfortunately, i thought that in france, we didn't even have this growth. that's what i'm remembering. furthermore, reforms were being undertaken. there are certainly shared responsibilities, but nevertheless, this early growth was something positive, and it is a pity that we have lost time since then.
madam president, commissioner, the handelsblatt newspaper recently reported that 95% of the aid to greece went to its creditors, the european banks. greece is paying a very high price for access to the remaining 5%. the austerity measures that the tsipras government had voted for were to be counterbalanced by a review of the greek debt. yesterday the eurogroup timidly opened the discussion as if to better time the debate. the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. but how can an economy plan and invest for the future in these conditions? the absence of decisions is a source of economic and social agony. in 2018, when the greek economy has suffered the effects of this new austerity plan, the reprofiling will be a thing of the past. a more significant haircut will be necessary if we persist in error. the greek people will suffer the most and the creditors will not be repaid. commissioner, why do you persist in this course?
madam president, last wednesday the handelsblatt, a major german newspaper, finally admitted what serious experts have been saying for a long time: the so-called aid to greece did not go to the greeks at all but to the banks. indeed, less than 5% of the sums paid by all of us have actually been injected into the greek economy. the price for this tiny share has been a total denial of democracy and an absolutely enormous amount of social violence for the greek people. as early as 2010, when the imf was considering a default on greece, you, the european commission in particular, set up a veritable ponzi scheme: you chose to save the banks rather than save the people. to pay off its debt, the greek state borrowed more and more. moreover, you have decided to punish the greeks with a severity, an absolutely unprecedented and historic violence, when they tried to choose another democratic path by electing mr tsipras and then voting no, a little less than a year ago, in the referendum on the aid plan. you have subjugated mr tsipras, who did not have the courage to resist you and who did not have the courage to choose the path of the end of the euro for his country. today the european central bank continues its daily blackmail of the liquidity. you have placed the entire responsibility for this situation on the greek people when, of course, the choice that has been made is at issue. yesterday you were celebrating your so-called founding fathers of the european project. i hope that this europeanist charade will not celebrate another anniversary and that we can finally listen to the peoples, move towards this cooperation between free nations, sovereign nations, the only one that works.
madam president, commissioner, in the range of views we have on the situation in greece, it seems to me that three lessons can be drawn from the eurogroup meeting which took place yesterday. the first is that the massive efforts of the greek government in reform and budgetary seriousness are to be particularly commended. it should be remembered that the laws adopted by athens on sunday on the pension scheme and on income tax represent more than three billion annual savings. the commitments made by alexis tsipras in the framework of the agreement reached last summer are being fulfilled and his political credibility with the institutions not only cannot be called into question, but must once again be welcomed and encouraged. the second lesson is that on the issue of greek debt, common sense is beginning to prevail, but here too we must move forward in the face of a promise we made to the greek people in the summer of 2012 and renewed last summer. the third lesson is that, despite the progress made, the reasons for renewed optimism must be promptly justified by lucid action, and on this point we appreciate the importance of the meeting scheduled for 24 may so that measures to restructure the greek debt can be taken and investors and insurance markets can return to the long-term path. this is what greece needs most and, with greece, the whole of the euro area.
madam president, despite your wonderful european agreement of august 2015, nothing is resolved in greece. as the national front has denounced, the euro-austerity that the troika is imposing on the greeks is only weakening their nation and making it impossible to pay off their public debt. you do not want to admit that the whole euro zone is dying and that greece is just a symptom of the cancer of the single currency. to the patriots, a debt is a debt. therefore, a partial cancellation of the public debt, a haircut, would be irresponsible because it would amount to a partial default that would set fire to the european public finances. on the other hand, we, the reasonable creditors, must accept a moratorium on greek debt with a rescheduling of the duration and interest to allow a new start for greece. but in order to meet its financial commitments, greece must meet three basic conditions: monetary sovereignty by leaving the euro zone in order to partially monetize its debt through its national bank; secondly, the payment of the 162 billion euros of historic greek debt by germany as financial war reparations; and thirdly, the halting of your european migration plans from which the greeks suffer. in this way, we will collectively avoid a humanitarian crisis and an economic crime in the cradle of democracy.
madam president, i think it is absolutely urgent to move away from the exclusively or strictly accounting approach and finally give greece and, more importantly, the greek people, a new perspective. it seems to me that we must act in two directions at the same time. yes, of course, we need fundamental reforms - and we all know this - of the state, of the administration, of the judiciary, of health care. but i would add that if the substantive reforms had been made earlier, mr tsipras would not have to do them today. that's the first point. secondly, yes, of course, we have to restructure the debt. we need to redirect her. we must, in fact, give financial aid and devote it to constructive development projects. greece must rebuild its industry, rebuild its agriculture, and take on new responsibilities and new roads, particularly in the field of renewable energy. finally, let us stop wasting our time pointing the finger at greece and the greeks, saying that they are not doing enough and that this is not right, and let us stand with them. let's help them take action, let's help them move forward and build a future.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit (2016/2585 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the competent authorities shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on eu-mercosur: the way forward in the trade negotiations of the association agreement, by bernd lange and pablo zalba bidegain, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o000046/2016 - b80366/2016) (2016/2596(rsp)).
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, i am still very much in the dark. today, we have the feeling that all these free trade agreements that are being put in place one after the other - canada, then tomorrow perhaps the united states, and then mercosur - are all about agriculture as a currency of exchange when we have nothing else to offer. we have just been talking about the balance sheet: today we can already say that more than 100 000 jobs would disappear in agriculture and related trades if these import agreements were to pass. today we have a problem with mercosur because we can see that a number of ministers are telling us that they do not want sensitive products, at least for the time being, as long as the negotiations have not progressed. but can you tell me today that not one kilo more of beef or poultry meat will be brought into the european union? because the question is: today we have a crisis on production, poultry, beef and pork. we are now facing a dramatic situation inside europe and people are still wanting to open the frontiers. that's something that's not possible. as far as standards are concerned, i have a real question: a year ago we voted in this house to ban the use of meat from clones or cloned animals. but you know as well as i do that in mercosur, and particularly in argentina, clones are already being used. what measures have you taken today at commission level to ensure that there are no imports from clones? there is no such thing. as far as gmos are concerned, there will also be a problem with the setting of standards. it's the same debate as with canada and the united states. that is why i am asking you today, quite simply, to stop these free trade agreements and to return to the multilateral table of the world trade organization.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has just relaunched negotiations with mercosur. these negotiations raise my greatest concerns. i will take the only example of agriculture where the standards in force in the mercosur countries are far from ensuring the minimum level of safety as we practice here in europe, including the massive use of antibiotics and hormones. i would like to congratulate the french cattle sector, which, together with interbev, may make it possible to remove cattle breeding from the negotiations with mercosur. but we must remain vigilant. in any case, we should not take this proposal by the president of the european commission for granted. i would like to say above all that this eu-mercosur agreement is an agreement which unfortunately reminds us of ttip. we must therefore be very careful because, as much as we have been vigilant with the transatlantic treaty, as much with this agreement with mercosur, the whole european agricultural sector is threatened. ladies and gentlemen, at one point we voluntarily gave up on the mercosur agreement. today we are taking up this agreement but we must be very careful because our european culture is in very bad shape and it is right today, precisely at a time when our sectors are in great difficulty, not to unfortunately put this treaty into effect which could be the total end of our european agriculture.
madam president, commissioner, it is of course in the interest of the european union and mercosur, two continental blocs, to talk, exchange and work together. nevertheless, we were somewhat surprised to learn that negotiations with mercosur had been resumed, and i wonder how legitimate a mandate dating back to the last century is, in a world that was not familiar with today's globalisation and where the latest exchanges of offers had caused a real upsurge of shields on our continent, leading to the suspension of negotiations. when we look at the trade balance, it is very clear: we export 19.9 billion more industrial products than we import. the agricultural deficit, on the other hand, is 19 billion. so there are great risks to agriculture as the currency of this negotiation, even though european agriculture is in crisis, even though commissioner hogan and i are unable to solve this crisis in europe because we no longer have enough tools. i therefore call on you to exercise the utmost vigilance in this matter.
madam president, madam commissioner, i must confess that i am rather concerned about the resumption of these negotiations. first of all, how do you justify the fact that we can resume negotiations on the basis of a mandate that is more than 17 years old? our interests have changed, the economic situation is not the same and the agricultural sector is in a serious crisis. appropriate specific measures should be applied to sensitive agricultural products. they should not be used as a bargaining chip, let alone be traded now. i have noted, madam commissioner, that the commission is finally going to carry out an impact analysis of the cumulation of quotas already granted in the other free trade agreements. it is a question of both economic efficiency and political credibility for the union.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, two political values are important for democracy: legitimacy, that is to say, telling the truth and sharing that truth through credibility, living the truth. the european union should question its legitimacy and credibility on sustainable development. of the 17 goals on the sustainable development agenda, i would like to highlight the first four: poverty, hunger, health and education. what legitimacy is there for sustainable development when the union's policy is causing a 47% increase in infant mortality in greece through its policy in favour of the banks against the greek people? what credibility does the union have when it supports free trade and relocates its pollution while at the same time insisting on the un environmental objectives? china pollutes for us more than for them, and that's objective number eight. if we continue to be hypocrites, nothing will change. in our country, man works for the economy and the economy works for finance, whereas with the copernican revolution - if our priorities were human - of this new humanism that the holy father asks us to listen to wisdom, in short to avoid the desolation and suicide of western europe, we should want finance to work for the economy and the economy for man and his needs. the revolution i propose to you is to use the capacity of the central bank, the 1 000 billion of current monetary creation, to invest it in a human project of sustainable development which would then be truly economic, social and environmental. 500 billion invested in the countries of southern europe and 500 billion in co-development with the south. this project is within our reach. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, madam vice-president, i would also like to thank you for your speech. we've been to refugee camps on the turkish-syrian border, and i know the meaning of the smiles of syrian children and the tears of syrian parents. you will agree with me that this situation - this desperately needed humanitarian aid for jordan and lebanon - also reveals our unworthiness, not that of the european union, but that of europe, this europe which is not capable of taking in a tenth of the refugees hosted in lebanon and jordan, that is, some 1.7 million people. i shall be in jordan and lebanon this sunday with the committee on budgets, and it will be very difficult for me, under these circumstances, to give a lesson to both lebanon and the jordanian state. it also reveals our immorality, because, in the end, what we're doing is displacing our bad conscience and our fears.
madam president, madam high representative mogherini, first of all i would like to congratulate you on the work you are doing in this area. you have shown compassion, humanitarian empathy and political courage. yes, political courage when we hear speeches of shame, hatred and fear in the far right benches of this house, when, as was mentioned in this debate, we are taking in less than one tenth of the refugees who are being taken in in lebanon and jordan, as you also mentioned earlier, madam high representative. you're showing empathy and compassion. i was present at a camp in the bekaa valley in lebanon a few weeks ago, and i could see that schoolchildren were welcomed and smiled in a particularly difficult environment. you are right, we are right: that the european union should finance the refugees who are being received with difficulty but at the same time with courage in lebanon or jordan. it is therefore our duty to support you in your work as head of european diplomacy in favour of refugees in these countries. supporting them is defending ourselves, we europeans. i want to thank you again for your action. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". in 1995, when françois mitterrand, president of the french republic, appeared for the last time before the european parliament, he said and he was right that "nationalism is war". in the face of these nationalists, in the face of the nationalist discourse we hear, we must work with the european union and in the case of european diplomacy to find humanitarian solutions which actually enable the children in these refugee camps, in lebanon, jordan or elsewhere, to find, through our funding, a source of hope. that is the most important thing in the action we are taking. what we are doing with mrs mogherini is not only courageous, but it is also humanitarian empathy, and this humanitarian empathy the nationalists will never be able to develop.
mr president, madam high representative, in the name of reason and law, the european institutions cannot allow the destruction of these hundreds of houses and public facilities in palestine. on the one hand, they must not accept what is illegal, namely territorial annexation and settlement, and on the other hand, humanitarian law prohibits depriving thousands of palestinians, including thousands of children, of their homes. finally, by allowing the destruction of infrastructure financed by the european union, we are accepting to be humiliated and despised. even in israel today, in society and even in the military, there is now open concern about the abominable abuses of the government. we must therefore take responsibility and make the israeli state pay for the destruction. the continuing violation of international law, democracy and article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement must lead us to suspend this agreement as long as the state of israel does not respect the common international law. so now is the time to act with urgency.
mr president, madam high representative, last july i was with a delegation of meps in the village of al hadidiya in palestine, area c. it was a village, that's all that's left. (speaker shows assembly picture) this is what is left of that village today - ruins, nothing left, everything destroyed. according to the united nations, more than 600 buildings, schools and homes have been destroyed since the beginning of the year. much of this construction was financed by european funds. the european union must put an end to these demolitions. it is to protect the most vulnerable populations living in area c. israel is not a state outside of time, israel is not a state outside of law. human rights, as the name implies, must be respected for all civilian populations, regardless of their origin or nationality. the european union must act to stop these demolitions. we must hold an accounting and make israel pay.
mr president, madam high representative, as i recalled in a column co-signed with alon ben-meir, a professor at new york university and a specialist in the peace process, in a major evening newspaper in france, the israeli-palestinian conflict has rarely appeared so far from resolution. rarely has the despair of two peoples been so desperate, with such daily violence. the attention of the international community has rarely been so far removed from the palestinian question. yet every week, it has been said, 50 palestinian homes are destroyed by the israeli authorities. however, 104 european-funded installations have been destroyed since the beginning of the year. madam high representative, a majority of israelis and palestinians want only one thing: peace. on 30 may, you will be in paris for this international summit as part of the french initiative to relaunch the peace process and achieve a two-state solution. this requires an end to the hate speech spread by some of the two camps, an end to colonization and destruction, and changes to school textbooks. this is the road map we need to take to get to that solution. (the president cut the speaker off)
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) (14957/2/2015 - c8-0130/2016 - 2013/0091 ((cod)) (rapporteur: agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra (a8-0164/2016))), which is to be followed by a debate on the following items:
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, volunteering, pupil exchange and peer work (14958/2/2015 - c8-0131/2016 - 2013/0081 ((cod)) (rapporteur: cecilia wikström (a8-0166/2016)).
mr president, as a member of the committee on culture and education, i am very interested in questions which have a direct or indirect bearing on training and education. you estimate that in the coming years the research and development sector will require 1 000 000 additional jobs. these jobs, why not give them to our unemployed - about 12% in the euro zone, 40% in france? students in bac + 5 are unemployed one year after leaving school. in addition, you said in your explanatory statement that our best researchers and innovators are leaving by the thousands to countries where conditions are more favourable. if we made the conditions favorable, there would be no more brain drain. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do they have less talent than migrants? as for development policy, it would be that young people could be trained at home to be the future elites of their country and contribute to the development of their own country. i respect your wishes for the growth of europe, but i would simply like you to try to achieve it with the europeans.
mr president, legal migration is not a danger to the european union and its member states. on the contrary, they represent an asset for our economies and a chance for the future, especially in the face of the significant demographic challenge we are facing. the socialist and democratic group fully supports this directive which will make it possible to clarify and harmonize the conditions for entry and residence in europe for students and researchers as well as for voluntary trainees and au pairs. this text contains many essential steps to make the union more attractive to third-country nationals, who constitute a real pool of new talent. strengthened rights are guaranteed for students and researchers, particularly as regards the right to work. their mobility is facilitated at european level, and this will also apply to their relatives. it was also essential that the directive remove many administrative obstacles and thus facilitate admission procedures. i welcome this text as an addition to the union's range of measures on legal migration. it can only revitalise the european area of education and research and offer positive prospects for our societies, both from a social and cultural point of view. moreover, it is entirely in line with our desire to open safe and legal routes to europe. however, we should move beyond this fragmented approach which continues to apply only to certain categories of people. the next step will be to propose a comprehensive framework for the residence of third-country nationals in the union, in order to meet the needs of the european labour market.
mr president, this directive is supposed to facilitate the arrival of foreign students in the european union, so that they can train and use their skills in their country of origin. but in reality, this directive will create new channels for legal immigration. these citizens are being asked to stay in europe to, allegedly, compensate for a shortage of skilled workers, which is totally absurd, because, after all, if our young graduates were not emigrating by the thousands every year to escape mass unemployment, we would not be here today trying to stop the brain drain, for which you are mainly responsible. the directive will in fact help to increase competition between newly qualified candidates on the labour market, to the great satisfaction of large companies, which will thus benefit from a cheap and skilled workforce. in short, this directive reflects the commission's contempt for our young people who are suffering the full brunt of unemployment and contempt for countries whose future depends essentially on the return of their brains and talents.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards the derogations applicable to commodity traders. the proposed amendment would allow commodity traders to benefit from an extension until 31 december 2020 of the derogations from the requirements of the crr on large exposures and own funds. these derogations avoid forcing these investment companies to increase their own funds to continue their activities. however, they represent a significant risk for commodity markets, in particular through the massive use of derivatives which can cause very high volatility and cause prices to fluctuate without any fundamental reason, while having negative consequences for the real economy. i therefore believe that the very fragile state of our financial system should encourage the commission to regulate these activities rather than ask for additional time.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendment will allow commodity traders to benefit from an extension until 31 december 2020 of the derogations from the regulation's capital and large risk requirements. the commission considers it necessary to extend the derogations already provided for, taking into account the time needed to complete the review of investment firms and to develop, adopt and implement the legislation that could result from that process. the companies concerned represent a significant risk to commodity markets, in particular through the massive use of derivatives which can cause very high volatility and cause prices to fluctuate without any fundamental reason, while having adverse consequences for the real economy. it therefore seemed to me detrimental to the financial stability of our economies to leave the commission room to do work that should have been done well before the 2008 financial crisis. the very fragile state of our financial system should encourage the commission to regulate these activities, even if it is too cautious, rather than asking for three years' additional time. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which applies to credit institutions and investment firms trading in raw materials. it is necessary that this review should lead to the establishment of a prudential framework appropriate to their situation. in order to ensure a stable legislative framework for investment firms, the already provided for derogations should be extended until 2017, taking into account the time needed to complete the review of investment firms and to develop, adopt and implement the legislation that may result from that process.
in writing. ‒ the amendment proposed by this report would allow commodity traders to benefit from an extension of the derogations from the requirements of the crr, the application of which could force them to significantly increase their own funds requirements to continue their activities and, consequently, increase their costs. the commission considers that the exemptions already provided for in the crr need to be extended in order to avoid such a situation. the very fragile state of our financial system should prompt the commission to regulate these activities, even if it is too cautious, rather than asking for an additional 3 years, especially in an area where prices can be so volatile, and especially since it should have already acted after the 2008 crisis. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on exemptions for commodity traders should allow them to benefit from an extension until 31/12/2020 of the derogations from the requirements of the crr on large exposures and capital. the current framework for investment firms is under review. however, i do not think that legislation resulting from this process will be achieved before the expiry of the current derogations, i.e. on 31/12/2017. this could force commodity traders to significantly increase their capital requirements to continue their activities and could therefore increase the costs of doing so. the commission therefore considers it necessary to extend the derogations already provided for in the crr, since article 498 of the crr required the commission to report to parliament on the prudential regimes applied to commodity dealers 'by 31 december 2015 at the latest'. these companies represent a significant risk to the commodity markets (due to the use of derivatives) and i think that there should be no delay when this work should have been done much earlier. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to extend until 31 december 2020, without updating, the derogations granted to commodity dealers under the prudential framework defined by the crr and the capital requirements directive 2013/36/ec. in fact, according to article 498 of the crr, the commission was required to submit a report to parliament on these derogations before the end of 2015, which was not done. given the extreme volatility of commodity markets, i believe it is wiser to regulate these activities as soon as possible in order to avoid the risk of a large-scale financial crisis. i am therefore not in favour of postponing these derogations in the state until the end of 2020, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to extend the derogations from the capital requirement regulation (crr) for commodity traders until 31 december 2020. these derogations avoid forcing these investment firms to increase their own funds, as is the case for other institutional investors. i voted against this report. on the one hand, it is quite absurd that these companies should benefit from the leniency of the european regulatory authorities. on the other hand, the flexibility granted to them weakens the players operating on the financial markets and could therefore destabilise the banking sector in europe once again. the commission clearly has not learnt anything from the financial crisis of 2008.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to simplify the control system by implementing a single examination on an appropriate regime for commodity traders. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to allow commodity traders to benefit from an extension until 31 december 2020 of the derogations from the requirements of the capital requirements regulation (crr) on large risks and capital, in order to avoid the explosion of costs related to the exercise of these activities. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of capital injections in the bank's capital base. indeed, these companies represent a significant risk to commodity markets, in particular because of the massive use of derivatives and the related volatility that can cause prices to fluctuate excessively. it is not desirable to leave the commission to manage what should have been done before the 2008 financial crisis. in the interests of prudence and a framework for the financial system, i voted against this request for an additional three years.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it is detrimental to the financial stability of our economies to leave the commission room to do work that should have been done well before the 2008 financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the loones report on the derogations for commodity traders in respect of capital requirements. in a symbolic way. i believe that it is essential to subject these economic operators to prudential rules, preferably adapted to their specific situations, especially if their main activity is the trading of derivative contracts on raw materials. the derogations currently granted to them expire in december 2017. they are provided for in a regulation, the crr and the crd4 to speak in european jargon, which dates from 2013. the commission therefore had plenty of time to present its proposals. the renewal of the composition of the commission in 2014 cannot even be used to justify this delay, since the process starts with a technical consultation of two european financial supervisory authorities. however, the derogation only started in 2015, which makes it impossible, given the length of the european legislative process, to adopt any regulation in time, and is the reason for the request to extend the derogation period. my vote is a vote for the commission's lack of foresight, and nothing else.
in writing. ‒ it seems to me detrimental to the financial stability of our economies to leave the commission room to do work that should have been done well before the 2008 financial crisis. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to extend, until 31 december 2020, the derogations from the crr requirements for large exposures and capital for commodity traders, pending the next review of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on exemptions for commodity traders. the proposed amendment would allow commodity traders to benefit from an extension until 31 december 2020 of the derogations from the requirements of the crr on large exposures and own funds. these companies pose a significant risk to commodity markets, in particular through the massive use of derivatives which can cause very high volatility and cause prices to fluctuate without any fundamental reason, while having adverse consequences for the real economy. so it seems to me detrimental to the financial stability of our economies to leave room for the commission to do work that should have been done well before the 2008 financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ the crr (capital requirements regulation) is a european regulation that governs capital for investment firms, including commodity traders. the latter are exempted from these requirements. the commission was asked to report on this finding in order to find a solution and put an end to this special scheme. however, this request was not met. the text therefore proposes to grant a further three-year period to traders in raw materials. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report aims to extend until 31 december 2020 the exemptions for commodity traders in regulation (eu) no 575/2013 of 26 june 2013 and directive 2013/36/ec of 26 june 2013. these two texts lay down the european regulatory framework for own funds. the original expiry date of those exemptions was 31 december 2017. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 56 (b) of crr the review process could exceed the above expiry date, subjecting commodity traders to heavy capital requirements. commodity traders are fond of financial derivatives, which are highly volatile on the financial markets. the establishment of specific rules on own funds therefore seems to us to be urgent. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 36 (1) (a) of crr
in writing. ‒ commodity traders are investment firms whose main activity is to provide or provide investment services in the energy and commodity markets (food, industrial, etc.). they are therefore the main players in speculation on essential raw materials. since 2013, they have been exempted from the own funds guidelines and regulations that regulate risks, allowing them to speculate without limit. those two derogations shall expire on 31 december 2017. the report proposes to extend them to allow for the review of these directives and possibly to create a tailor-made framework for these companies. i am voting against this text which seeks to adapt the regulations to the wishes of the starving people.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report was to allow traders to continue to benefit from a derogation from the crr's standards for large exposures and capital. to avoid that raw material traders are forced to increase their amount, therefore the costs related to their activities they are granted a derogation until a new, adjusted regulation arrives in 2017. however, this is not a prudent solution for the real economy. these companies pose a risk because of their massive use of derivatives which can create considerable volatility and cause prices to fluctuate without reason. a settlement should have been made before the crisis. in view of our fragile economy, these activities should be regulated. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ it seems to me detrimental to the financial stability of our economies to leave room for the commission to do work that should have been done well before the 2008 financial crisis. the very fragile state of our financial system should encourage the commission to regulate these activities, even if it is too cautious, rather than asking for three years' additional time. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which endorses the commission's position on the exemptions for commodity traders relating to large exposures and capital, which expire on 31 december 2017. the commission wishes to review the proposal in order to provide an appropriate regime for commodity traders, and more broadly for investment firms, for the obligations under the regulation and the capital requirements directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the regulation to extend until 31 december 2020 the derogations from the crr requirements for large exposures and capital for commodity traders and to amend regulation (eu) no 575/2013 accordingly. the supervisory framework for this type of activity is currently under review and it is unlikely that the new legislation will be ready before the expiry of the existing derogations (i.e. before 31 december 2017). therefore, it is necessary to extend the duration of those derogations already provided for in the crr.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendment would allow commodity traders to benefit from an extension until 31 december 2020 of the derogations from the requirements of the crr on large exposures and capital. these companies represent a significant risk to commodity markets, in particular through the massive use of derivatives which can cause very high volatility and cause prices to fluctuate without any fundamental reason, while having negative consequences for the real economy. we therefore believe that it is detrimental to the financial stability of our economies to leave the commission room to do work that should have been done well before the 2008 financial crisis. the very fragile state of our financial system should encourage the commission to regulate these activities, even if it is too cautious, rather than asking for three years' additional time. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the text on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol). the text provides in particular for the creation of a joint parliamentary monitoring group set up by the national parliaments and the competent committee of the european parliament to ensure political control of europol's activities. the council's position provides an explicit legal basis for reporting content on the internet. in addition, a new provision on information processing and data protection would be integrated, allowing europol to establish links and connections between different investigations. while i am in favour of cooperation between the police services of the member states, i am firmly opposed to the emergence of a european federal police.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the europol regulation, after three years of work. in the face of the increase in serious and organised crime, and in order to combat terrorism more effectively, i have always advocated better cooperation between member states and their police services at european level. in the face of threats, europe, through europol, has a vital coordinating role to play. the paris and brussels attacks show the need for joint work and the exchange of information. the s&d group played an important role in reaching this balanced agreement. we have, for example, secured joint investigation teams, the setting up of europol national units and the appointment of liaison officers. the new powers of the agency will be accompanied by strong data protection safeguards and tools to ensure democratic control; this was one of the strong demands of the european parliament. however, this building is based on the existence of a high degree of trust, which is not easy to achieve; the idea of a european police office, a form of european fbi, should therefore not be dismissed. for us, this is the next, unavoidable step in building a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ the agency is further strengthened. the enl group is in favour of cooperation between police forces in the member states in the fight against terrorism and serious crossborder crime, but we are wary of the gradual development of a kind of european federal police, which is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate which will strengthen europol's mandate. i welcome the adoption of this legislation, which is indispensable at a time when europe is facing the threat of terrorism. however, i regret that the reform is not more ambitious. it is urgent that the member states provide europol with a genuine investigative capacity and establish a genuine integrated european police cooperation. i hope that the european countries will unite to combat the international threat posed by terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation reforming europol, the european intergovernmental criminal police agency, to strengthen its operational powers in the fight against terrorism. since terrorist acts know no borders, it is increasingly ineffective not to have real coordination between police forces in the member states of the european union. one of the objectives of this text is to make the participation of member states' police forces more systematic and more codified, in particular through joint investigation teams and the establishment of a europol national unit. these are longstanding claims by professionals in the field.
in writing. ‒ since the text is now at second reading, i did not have to give an opinion on the text itself, but i did vote in favour of a proposal to reject the council's position. i am opposed to this strengthening of europol, because i cannot accept the development of a european federal police force which would undermine the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) passing second reading, there was no vote on the substance but i did vote in favour of a motion rejecting the council proposal to strengthen europol. i am opposed to this movement towards the creation of a kind of european federal police: since the eurocrats want a european federal state, let them clearly announce it rather than nibble, piece by piece, at the royal prerogatives of the member states. under the pretext of combating terrorism, the council proposal also provides for an extension of europol's powers, which constitutes a real threat to the freedom of citizens of european nations, since the agency would in particular be able to transfer and receive personal data to private parties. while i am in favour of bilateral cooperation between sovereign states to combat terrorism, i cannot support such a transfer of powers to an eu agency.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of cooperation between police services of the member states in the fight against terrorism and serious crossborder crime, but i am wary of the gradual development of a kind of european federal police. i therefore voted for the amendment rejecting the proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report assigns the responsibility to the national parliaments and the competent committee of the european parliament to set up a monitoring group to oversee the activities of the eu agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol). the council provides an explicit legal basis for reporting content on the internet. europol will now be allowed to transfer personal data to private parties. we are certainly in favour of cooperation between the police services of the member states in order to combat the growth of islamic fundamentalism and criminal organizations. however, i opposed this text, which is gradually helping to bring about the emergence of a european federal police. that is why i voted for the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ europol's objective is to create a safer european union by assisting the law enforcement agencies of the member states and ensuring their proper cooperation. in a union without internal borders, it is essential to ensure the security of citizens by effectively combating terrorism and crime. it is true that terrorism and large-scale crime know no borders. their misdeeds cannot in any way be facilitated by freedom of movement within the european territory. europol works to improve the performance of police services in the union. this regulation gives the european agency appropriate powers to combat terrorism and international crime. it will modernise europol's governance and strengthen its capacity for cooperation with third countries. we needed such a regulation particularly in the wake of the attacks that have occurred on european soil. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report concerns an agreement between the european parliament and the council on new provisions governing the european police agency, europol. the purpose of this agency is to strengthen the fight against terrorism and cybercrime. the agreement strengthens europol's mandate to enable the agency to combat the increase in cross-border crime and terrorist threats. i have supported this report because i believe that the security of european citizens and the fight against terrorism require cooperation between national authorities and the exchange of information.
in writing. the vote on this report is not so much about extending europol's powers as about strengthening the means of action at its disposal to complete the european arsenal in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. we must ensure that the agency has the means to do its job properly, including access to the information it needs. this agency has grown considerably in recent years. the european counter-terrorism centre or the internet content reporting unit have their statutes clarified in this regulation. it is claimed that europol's internet content reporting unit could contact the companies of the internet giants directly to ask them to remove content used by terrorists to recruit european citizens. these are measures which i supported in my report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. the adoption of this text today is an important step forward in the fight against terrorism and a victory for our political group.
in writing. ‒ the strengthening of europol's powers in european police cooperation will help to make the fight against terrorism in europe more effective. the european police office will now be able to set up units specialised in the fight against terrorism. it will be able to contact content providers directly on the internet, so as to react much more quickly to terrorist digital propaganda and to have any content deemed objectionable removed. this is a step in the right direction and must be part of a more comprehensive european strategy to deal with the terrorist threat.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion to reject this text which strengthens the european union's agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol). the council's position aims to enable europol to carry out future internet content-reporting missions and provides that europol can now receive personal data directly from private parties following transfers, with strict restrictions on the processing of data concerning particular categories of persons. i remain in favour of cooperation between the police services of the member states in the fight against terrorism and serious crossborder crime, but i reject the idea of a european federal police.
in writing. ‒ we are in favour of cooperation between police services of the member states in the fight against terrorism and serious crossborder crime, but we are wary of the gradual development of a kind of european federal police.
in writing. ‒ europol, which is celebrating its 17th anniversary this year, really needs more tools and resources to improve cooperation between national and eu supervisory authorities. in 17 years, criminal groups and organisations have certainly developed their networks to such an extent that it is imperative that we consider their repression through a european or even a global approach. strengthening the agency's responsiveness by setting up specialised units, encouraging states to carry out cross-border investigations, monitoring and assessing the level of cooperation on terrorism and organised crime between member states are all measures needed to strengthen the fight against organised crime. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of this regulation, but i am very sorry that this reform has stopped halfway. i believe that we have missed the opportunity to create a 'european fbi', that is to say a genuine european judicial police and internal intelligence service with real criminal investigation capacity and real initiative in this field.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 11 may, i voted in favour of the diaz de mera report to strengthen the powers of europol so that this police cooperation agency is better equipped to fight terrorism, cybercrime and other forms of crime. this will enable it to rapidly train specialised units to respond to emergencies, such as a terrorist threat. in particular, the agency will be able to exchange information directly with private entities such as companies or ngos, in order to react more quickly. for example, europol's internet content reporting unit will now be able to contact a social network service provider, such as facebook, directly to request that it remove a web page operated by the islamic state (is), in order to prevent the spread of terrorist propaganda more quickly. member states will also be required to provide europol with the necessary and sufficient information to enable the agency to do its job properly. i welcome these new measures as a powerful legislative tool to enhance the security of european citizens. the regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the official journal of the eu and shall apply from 1 may 2017.
in writing. after three years of work and despite the reluctance of member states to move towards more integration in police cooperation, i welcome the adoption, at second reading, of the europol regulation. the european union, through europol, has a key role to play in the face of threats that know no borders. the new regulation, which strengthens the agency's powers and clarifies its operation, will promote better cooperation between member states and their police services at european level and increased exchanges of information. in the face of the increase in crime, and in order to combat terrorism more effectively, the socialists and democrats have always advocated a coordinated european response. my group played an important role in reaching this balanced agreement. we have, for example, secured joint investigation teams, the setting up of europol national units and the appointment of liaison officers. the new powers of the agency will be accompanied by robust data protection safeguards and tools to ensure democratic parliamentary oversight; this was one of the strong demands of the european parliament. these are important advances and these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that europol is finally endowed with the powers and structures necessary to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. with the proliferation of threats, including terrorism, organised crime, migrant smuggling and cybercrime, it was imperative to strengthen the agency's capabilities and adapt its mandate to the current circumstances. it's done now. europol can now strengthen structures such as the internet reference unit which tracks all websites promoting terrorism and the european counter-terrorism centre which was set up last january. the agency can also exchange information directly with private partners such as companies (google, twitter, etc.) and ngos, while ensuring the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution continues to welcome the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and the poorest communities. that is one of the reasons why i was opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to increase europol's efficiency and accountability. the new agency will strengthen the actions and cooperation of the member states to better address common challenges in the field of terrorism and all forms of crime. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the efdd group's motion for a resolution on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol), because i am opposed to the gradual and surreptitious development of a kind of european federal police. it is of course necessary for the member states to cooperate in the fight against terrorism and serious crossborder crime, but this can be done without europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in the form of an amendment rejecting the text's contentions. the commission is proposing to strengthen cooperation between the police services of the member states in order to combat terrorism, but it is also taking the opportunity to increase the powers of europol (the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation). the very existence of this agency is questionable, because by its very nature it undermines the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ the increase in serious and organised crime in the european union calls for a strengthening of europol, the body with a key role in cooperation between member states and their police services at european level. the regulation adopted today aims to establish the legal framework necessary for the creation of a 'new europol' with enhanced powers and improved governance. this regulation, which has been the subject of lengthy negotiations, strikes the right balance between facilitating exchanges between national police services and providing sufficient safeguards for our personal data. i am voting in favour of this regulation, which strengthens europol's powers and thus makes it possible to promote joint work between the member states, which is a necessary step forward in building a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ this council text reforms europol's governance and powers. the text establishes a monitoring group on governance, set up by the national parliaments and the parliamentarians of the competent committee of the european parliament. however, the european parliament's powers remain strictly limited. this is demonstrated by the way in which the executive director of europol is appointed: by the council from a list of names drawn up by the member states. his appointment shall be subject to an advisory opinion of the european parliament. the text formalises and clarifies europol's powers in the area of internet surveillance and the processing of personal data. the latter can now receive and transfer personal data from private individuals. it may also carry out analyses from ongoing surveys under the 'integrated data management' system. however, europol shall be subject to the control of a data protection officer internally and to the control of the european data protection supervisor externally. the processing of certain categories of data is also strictly regulated. the fight against organised crime is a priority. we do not, however, support the extensive powers granted to this quasi-federal police.
in writing. ‒ the continuing terrorist threat, symbolised by the attacks in paris and brussels, highlights the urgent need for better information sharing and cooperation in police and judicial matters. indeed, terrorism and organised crime are challenges that by their nature transcend borders. for this reason, the european agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) deserved to see its competences strengthened and its governance improved. i fully support the objective of systematising the participation of member states in europol when they are confronted with transnational crime, through the setting up of joint investigation teams or the appointment of liaison officers. in addition, in view of the legitimate debates that accompanied the passengers name record (pnr) vote, it was necessary that the information-sharing mechanisms be fully compatible with the new data protection rules. the challenge of this new regulation will now be to enable member states to achieve a level of trust that will encourage the sharing of information and joint work. since they cannot hide their own shortcomings indefinitely, states must stop blaming each other and seize this new opportunity for cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to make europol, the european office for cooperation between criminal police forces, a permanent community body, i.e. to give it greater operational autonomy vis-à-vis the states. although (for the time being) without its own means of coercion, it is acquiring new key competences such as the training of national police units. under the pretext of fighting terrorism, it will have greater access to personal data, in particular by collaborating with the fbi or private parties such as facebook. the luxembourg president of the council of the european union announced the final objective: "we must work on the interoperability of the different tools", i.e. the cross-referencing of data collected by different european bodies (eurojust, frontex, etc.) and international ones. big brother, george orwell's nightmare because what's more, the legal safeguards are nonexistent or vague. the office reserves the right to refuse citizens access to their own information or to fail to respect the right to be forgotten. and the existing mechanism of appeal will allow it to shift the blame onto the states. as i said at the first vote on this regulation, i remain opposed.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency is further strengthened in this report. cooperation between our police forces may be desirable, especially in the fight against terrorism. however, i fear that in time there will be a federal police force. i'm still pretty reserved about this.
in writing. ‒ this text is being read for the second time, so there is no final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's proposal on this text on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation. the text aims in particular to strengthen europol's powers, in particular to enable it to better combat terrorism, cybercrime and all forms of crime more generally. after the attacks in france in 2015 and in belgium last march, we must welcome all the texts that aim to strengthen the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increase in serious and organised crime, and in order to combat terrorism more effectively, meps have always advocated better cooperation between member states at european level. i therefore fully support this new regulation on europol, which strengthens the agency's powers and clarifies its operation, as it will facilitate the exchange of information and the joint work of national police services. europol's activities will be more closely monitored, in line with the provisions of the new data protection package. this is particularly important for the transfer of data to third countries. i also welcome the establishment of a specialised parliamentary scrutiny group, which will monitor in particular the impact of the agency's operation on fundamental rights and individual freedoms. while we can only welcome these advances, this regulation is only a first step towards more european integration in police cooperation. all this is based on a high level of trust which is not achieved today, and therefore the creation of a 'european fbi' should be considered. this will be the next essential step in building a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the reform of the europol agency proposed by the european commission. this initiative dates back to 2013, before the attacks in france and belgium. the attacks have shown the serious shortcomings in cooperation between european police forces. the reform will enable the european parliament and national parliaments to monitor the activities of europol. improved data protection is also ensured through the independence of the data protection officer of europol. finally, the new legislation should also improve police cooperation and the exchange of information. two absolutely crucial elements in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. member states must join forces and coordinate their police services, otherwise we will not be able to prevent attacks and arrest the perpetrators before they take place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which gives new powers to europol, whose role is to help our national police authorities fight organised crime and terrorism. this text is not perfect, particularly as regards the agency's means of action. it would have been desirable for the agency to be able to conduct criminal investigations on its own initiative, like a true european fbi. however, much progress has been made and a positive step has been taken. the text formalises the task of the agency and the functioning of cooperation between europol and the member states, providing greater legal certainty for the activities of the agency and allowing for better european cooperation between police authorities. the new mandate will also improve the fight against terrorism, transnational crime and cybercrime. for example, member states will have to provide europol with the data the agency needs to carry out its actions. in addition, provisions have been inserted to ensure strong data protection and democratic control by parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion to reject this text. the adoption of this regulation is crucial if europe is to be able to combat organised crime and terrorism effectively. the increase in these phenomena requires a coordinated response involving greater cooperation. the new europol agency, set up by this regulation, will make it possible to implement this cooperation. the participation of states will become systematic and codified through joint teams, national europol units or the appointment of liaison officers. the governance of the agency will also be strengthened, while its powers will be underpinned by strong data protection safeguards and joint parliamentary scrutiny. this strengthening of europol must be a first step towards greater cooperation and integration in order to build a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - the agency is coming out stronger. i am in favour of cooperation between police forces in the member states in the fight against terrorism and serious crossborder crime, but i am wary of the gradual development of a kind of european federal police. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the text on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, volunteering, pupil exchange and peer work. the purpose of this text is to improve the existing legal framework and to extend the scope of application to new categories of third-country nationals (paid trainees and au pairs). it therefore undermines the sovereignty of the member states, which should be able to have their own policy on this matter. the text also supports measures to encourage immigration (family reunification) and encourages brain drain to the detriment of developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of harmonised entry and residence rules at european level for students, researchers, trainees, volunteers and au pairs from third countries. too often, students and researchers from third countries face unnecessary administrative obstacles to studying or doing research in the union, which ultimately discourages them. these rules will help to strengthen europe's position on the world stage in the fields of research and innovation, and to respond to the demographic and economic challenges we face, while strengthening the rights of young people on the move. in addition to harmonised and simplified provisions, this framework will make it possible to combat effectively the risks of exploitation and unfair competition in the labour market, which these people too often face. the next step should be to propose a comprehensive framework for the residence of third-country nationals in the union, so as to be able to respond fully to the needs of the european labour market.
in writing. ‒ the text lists, in addition to valid travel documents, all documents which may be required for entry purposes, depending on the particular national regime or the specific situation of the third-country national. all this undermines the sovereignty of the member states, which should be able to conduct their own policy in this area. the text is also pro-immigration (family reunification, right to stay to look for work or to set up a business), and encourages "brain drain" to the detriment of developing countries. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution rejecting the council's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because cohesion policy, with a budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020, is the instrument that brings the union closer to its citizens and europe's main investment and development policy. nevertheless, i believe it is essential that the member states fulfil the ex ante conditions by the end of 2016 in order to ensure the proper implementation of the programmes. i also call for a simplification of the administrative burden, which leads to slow and cumbersome approval of major projects.
in writing. ‒ the text is now at second reading, and i did not have to give an opinion on the text itself; however, i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council's position, which defends immigration regulations which we have seen so far serve only the interests of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ opposing the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, study, training and voluntary service, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by our group. this new directive will only be a new door to mass immigration, under the most fraudulent pretexts. the explanatory memorandum estimates that the research and development sector will require one million additional jobs in the coming years. however, rather than reserving these jobs for our 12% unemployed, the council and parliament consider it necessary to bring into the eu a 'reservoir of potential highly skilled workers and human capital which the eu needs'. a double contempt for european workers and for students from third countries, reduced to a mere resource for economic adjustment. in addition to the fact that this directive is a real lever for social dumping, i am surprised that parliament and the council, seeing the brain drain of our best researchers, are taking immigration as a solution rather than making europe more favourable.
in writing. ‒ this text undermines the sovereignty of the member states and is pro-immigration (family reunification, right to stay to look for work or to set up a business). this text encourages the flight of the brain at the expense of the developing countries, something i am firmly opposed to. i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission directive on which we are voting is supposed to facilitate the arrival of foreign students in the european union so that they can train and use their skills in their home country. in fact, it will help to create new channels of legal immigration. these nationals are being asked to stay in europe, ostensibly to make up for a shortage of skilled labour. the directive will thus increase competition on the labour market between candidates who have just completed their studies, to the great satisfaction of the large groups which will have at their disposal a trained workforce with low wage demands. that is why i voted against this text in the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which merges the current directives on the conditions for entry of students and researchers into the eu, and includes paid trainees and au pairs within the scope of the common directive. this report clarifies the conditions for entry of these people into the european area, with the aim of improving students' access to the labour market and of filling the skills gaps that affect so many specific sectors in europe. the competitiveness of our union on the world market is at stake. i particularly welcome the fact that students and researchers can stay for at least nine months after completing their studies or research in order to find a job or start a business. i congratulate my colleague cecilia wikström on her excellent work in negotiating these texts with the commission and the council.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report deals with the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in the european union for the purposes of research, studies, training, voluntary work, pupil exchange and peer work. the aim is to simplify the mobility of third-country nationals in order to promote cultural exchanges. the report proposes that students and researchers should be able to stay for at least nine months after the end of their activities and encourages their mobility within the european territory during their stay. considering that the mobility of european students and researchers fosters the development of a european identity and contributes to the achievement of the single european area, i supported this report.
in writing. the revision of the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, voluntary work and pupil exchange programmes or educational and work-as-a-partner projects improves the legal framework applicable to the different categories of third-country nationals and facilitates their movement within the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which extends the scope of the previous directives.
in writing. ‒ europe must continue to attract students, academics and researchers from third countries to its universities. it is therefore necessary to improve their reception and living conditions. this is the subject of new legislation which will allow students or researchers to stay in europe for at least nine months to work or set up a business, and which will encourage student exchange programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the motion rejecting this europeanist and immigrationist regulation which concerns family reunification, the right to stay to look for a job or to set up a business, for researchers and students. in addition, the brain drain is encouraged to the detriment of the developing countries which suffer from it. more generally, this text infringes the sovereignty of the member states, which should be able to conduct their own policy on these fundamental issues.
in writing. ‒ undermines the sovereignty of the member states, which should be able to pursue their own policy in this area. the text is also pro-immigration (family reunification, right to stay to look for work or to set up a business), and encourages "brain drain" to the detriment of developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of this directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, voluntary work and pupil exchange programmes. the reception of researchers, entrepreneurs and students from third countries is an important factor in competitiveness for the member states and, on a smaller scale, for the union. the directive will allow all these nationals to stay for an additional nine months to apply for a job or set up their own business, and their close family members will be able to enjoy freedom of movement and the right to work within the community. in other words, this directive makes the european union more attractive to people whose contributions are fully involved in the development of our societies and economies.
in writing. ‒ experience with the implementation of the current regulation shows that too often students and researchers from third countries face unnecessary administrative obstacles to study or research in the union. i therefore voted in favour of a revision of the current rules. this revision first of all makes it possible to include a wider number of categories which have hitherto been little or not covered. these new rules also include more rights, particularly in the areas of employment and mobility. for example, students and researchers will be able to stay in the host member state for at least 9 months after finishing their studies or contracts, in order to look for work or to set up a business. in this way, we are strengthening the international openness and attractiveness of the european education and research area. our old continent needs youth and attractiveness... even if it doesn't know it sometimes. while there is still a long way to go before a truly common and comprehensive migration policy is adopted, these new provisions send a positive signal in the current crisis context. they are in line with the progressive vision that we socialists and democrats advocate for the opening of legal and safe routes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement simplifying the conditions for admission of researchers and students because i considered that the safeguards were in place to encourage the attractiveness of 'brains' in europe while limiting the risks of illegal immigration. the member states thus retain control of their immigration since this directive does not affect the freedom of the states to fix the annual volume of entry of foreign nationals into their territory. in addition, in order to benefit from the benefits of this directive, applicants must be able to demonstrate that they have sufficient resources to avoid recourse to the national social protection system. finally, researchers and students are allowed to remain in the country of residence for a maximum of nine months after the expiry of the study or research agreement, provided that they prove after three months that they have a real chance of finding a job or setting up a business. because of bureaucracy, french universities lose many talented people to british and american universities. i believe that this directive is a tool for the development and visibility of our universities and research centres on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the directive is to simplify administrative procedures and admission requirements for foreign researchers and students in order to attract these young talents to the european territory. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which ensures a balance between the competences of the member states and the simplification of the lives of these categories of nationals. it is important that the eu invests more in research and development in order to attract the best engineers and to avoid that they leave the eu to work elsewhere after their training in european universities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the enl group on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, voluntary work, pupil exchange and peer work. this is a directive which undermines the sovereignty of the member states, which should be able to pursue their own policy in this area. the text is also pro-immigration: it encourages family reunification, the right to stay to look for work or to set up a business, and it encourages brain drain to the detriment of developing countries, which will further increase the flow of migrants to europe.
in writing. ‒ my vote is on the motion for rejection in the form of an amendment to the text. it proposes to extend the possibilities and conditions of residence to new categories of third-country nationals, including students and salaried employees. in doing so, it creates all the necessary conditions for immigration (permission for family reunification, right to set up a business). it increases the risk of brain drain from developing countries to the eu. as a result, member states are no longer in control of their immigration policy. i am therefore very much in favour of the vote to reject this text. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european working age population has practically stopped growing. in this context, europe needs to strengthen its position on the world stage in the fields of research and innovation, including by attracting new talent. the text presented today will make it possible to revise the rules on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training and voluntary work, in particular, on european territory. more specifically, the new rules proposed in this text also aim to simplify the procedures for applying for visas or residence permits and to offer increased rights to researchers and trainees from third countries. the union must be able to be an attractive centre of research and innovation by providing itself with a large pool of talent from member states and third countries; i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this text, which is being read for the second time, does not call for a final vote. it is intended to strengthen existing provisions concerning new categories of third-country nationals. it lists the conditions for residence in the territory of the member states of these categories: limitation of the working hours allowed for students to 15 hours, nine-month residence permit for students and researchers to search for jobs, etc. this text further deprives the member states of their prerogatives in the field of migration flows. (i) if the reception structure does not fulfil the conditions laid down by the applicable law or convention; (ii) if the national concerned is not staying in the territory of the member state in the context described in his application for authorization. in addition, member states will be able to restrict labour immigration to this category of nationals only in exceptional circumstances.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to improve and facilitate the admission procedures for third-country nationals coming to the eu for research, studies, traineeships or exchanges. it has already been voted on once. it was then referred to the eu council for renegotiation, including the categories of foreign nationals that could be covered. the directive now covers unpaid trainees, to avoid the 'real risk of exploitation'. but not the au-pair. it gives you the right to stay in the eu for nine months after the end of your research or studies to look for work. it allows these nationals to move within the eu. but since this text does not guarantee exactly equal rights in the labour market, it still allows social dumping and the pillage of brains. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ entry requirements are extended to new categories. the member states must be able to decide for themselves on this matter. the text is immigrationist with, among other things, the mention of family reunification. the immediate consequence of implementing a programme like this is mainly the brain drain from developing countries. i am against this text.
in writing. ‒ this text is being read a second time, so there is no final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's proposal on this text on the recasting of the 'third-country nationals' directives (conditions of entry and residence for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, training, volunteering and peer work). the aim of this text is to merge the directive on the reception of students and the directive on the reception of researchers in order to simplify administrative procedures. this text does not affect the sovereignty of the member states, which must prevail in matters of migration policy: i have in particular supported the provision guaranteeing the member states the right to set a volume of entry of foreign nationals into their territory.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this directive, which opens up new safe and legal routes to europe. it will provide more legal certainty and simplified and harmonised common rules to attract certain categories of third-country nationals to the union, namely researchers, students, trainees, volunteers and au pairs. this text will help to strengthen europe's openness to the world by removing the unnecessary administrative obstacles which have so far discouraged so many young talents from joining our continent. students will be able to work up to 15 hours a week and their mobility within the union will be facilitated, as will that of researchers. the latter will be able to be accompanied by their relatives, who will also have the right to move and work in europe. in particular, students and researchers will have the opportunity to stay for several months in their host member state at the end of their studies or contracts, in order to look for a job or to set up a business. this directive represents a step towards the creation of a unified european area for legal economic migration. these provide a positive response to the demographic and economic challenges we face and provide invaluable added value for the future of our societies.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing a major demographic challenge, with its working age population having practically stopped growing. at the same time, it must strengthen its position on the international scene in the field of research and innovation. this directive will make the union more attractive. it concerns researchers, students and trainees and, for the first time in a european text, au pairs. the rules of admission and movement are harmonized and simplified so as not to discourage those wishing to travel to europe from doing so. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to strengthen the rights of young people on the move: students will be allowed to work a maximum of 15 hours a week, and students and researchers will be able to stay in the host member state for at least 9 months after finishing their studies or contracts in order to look for work or to set up a business. researchers will now be able to be accompanied by family members; they will also have the right to move within the european union and to work there during their stay. i supported this text by voting against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ all the provisions of the text undermine the sovereignty of the member states, which should be able to conduct their own policy on entry and residence in their territories. the text is also pro-immigration (family reunification, right to stay to look for work or to set up a business), and encourages "brain drain" to the detriment of developing countries. i voted in favour of the rejection amendment tabled by our group, enf, with the efdd.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to improve the conditions of entry and residence for persons wishing to enter the eu for the purpose of research, study, training or voluntary work. it is therefore aimed at a limited number of people but can loosen the grip of european migration policies. the directive will improve admission procedures by introducing an obligation to give a decision on applications within 60 days. it creates a right of residence for the purpose of seeking work for nine months after the end of studies and will facilitate the right of family reunification for researchers. this will not solve everything, there are still obstacles: entry can always be refused on the basis of extremely vague criteria, residence permits are not issued for the full duration of the degree but on the basis of a renewable year. it is only a small element of breathing and always involves the same risk of choice of the most educated which participates in a certain logic of "brain-pillage". but that's good news for those who can benefit. the whole of migration policy should be reviewed, in particular to promote circular migration through more open policies in terms of the liberalisation of short-stay visas. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. the purpose of this text is to provide an overview of the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 and to make recommendations. in the area of regional policy, the topics covered include payment delays, the administrative complexities involved in making a project eligible, the lack of information and transparency for project promoters and local authorities, and the use of regional policy to promote euro-regionalism. despite some good positions from the regi committee (reduction of payment deadlines, simplification of the entire commitment and monitoring process for the structural funds), there is no question in this text of the need to maintain an urban agenda or to pursue macro-regional strategies, which are measures aimed at strengthening eu cooperation with local authorities at the expense of the national authorities of the member states. many other issues are not addressed, notably the reprogramming of the structural funds in favour of programmes for the reception of migrants. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages member states to use the instruments for projects to create quality jobs and opportunities for smes, to stimulate investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social investment and to contribute to poverty reduction and social inclusion, especially in the regions and sub-regions where this is most needed.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the acceleration of the implementation of cohesion policy is an exercise in which the committee on regional development takes stock of the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 and makes recommendations following the submission of an oral question to the european commission. the motion for a resolution does not call into question the maintenance of an urban agenda or the pursuit of macro-regional strategies. it also continues to welcome the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and the poorest communities. these are communities which, let us remember, in a period of economic crisis, need more flexibility in obtaining structural funds and better coordination with state/regional plan contracts. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution gives an overview of the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020: delays in payments, administrative complexities in making a project eligible, or the use of regional policy to promote euro-regionalism: cohesion policy is not really a recipe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union, in particular the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. finally, it should be noted that the motion for a resolution does not deal with the thorny question of the reprogramming of the structural funds in favour of programmes for the reception of migrants. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ despite some common sense proposals in this resolution on the implementation of cohesion policy, i had to vote against it. the text does indeed have the merit of addressing many of the shortcomings of regional policy, and calls in particular for a reduction in payment deadlines and for the simplification of the commitment and monitoring process for the structural funds. however, as is customary in this house, the resolution does not go to the end. the logic of euro-regionalism, which consists in "passing over" the member states in order to weaken them further, is not in any way called into question. worse, the text boasts of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which, as we all know, are catastrophic for our country and our poorest local authorities, which need more flexibility in obtaining structural funds. finally, the text misses a major problem, which my colleague steeve briois has mentioned many times in the regi committee: the reprogramming of the structural funds in favour of programmes for the reception of migrants, and this at the expense of the development and economic and social stability of our regions and their inhabitants.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to speed up the implementation of cohesion policy to overcome the public investment gaps in the member states resulting from the austerity cures imposed by the european commission. the rapporteur, on the one hand, is promoting the establishment of macro-regional strategies and the creation of a european urban policy, which is the exclusive competence of the member states. by strengthening the implementation of cohesion policy, the european union is seeking to give itself new prerogatives and to intensify its relations with local and regional authorities, to the detriment of our national sovereignty. the text also approves the introduction of ex ante conditionality in the allocation of european structural funds. national governments will now have to clean up their public accounts and implement the structural reforms recommended by the commission in order to qualify for these european funds, which are in abundance from the member states. for all these reasons, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a key instrument of the european union. it is the union's main investment policy, enabling european regions and cities to pursue the objectives of growth and job creation. cohesion policy is made up of different structural funds: the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). cohesion policy also helps to restore equality between european regions by helping the most disadvantaged of them. this resolution notes the significant delays in the launch and implementation of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period. the cohesion policy for this period must be put in place quickly. we cannot leave projects without funding. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the implementation of cohesion policy. it called on the member states to make full use of the european structural investment funds to strengthen social and economic cohesion and welcomed the establishment of the task force to promote programme implementation. finally, the resolution recalls that administrative capacity is an essential precondition for ensuring the implementation of cohesion policy and that it must be strengthened for the implementation and evaluation stages of the policy. considering that the union's cohesion policy, which is an essential tool for the development and attractiveness of territories, must be simple in its implementation by local actors and effective in its objectives, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported this resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy, the main investment and development policy of the european union covering all regions of the union. i welcome the establishment of the task force on improving programme implementation for 2007-2013 in eight member states and encourage the commission to extend it for the period 2014-2020 and to extend it to all member states.
in writing. ‒ this text does not call into question the pursuit of an urban agenda or the pursuit of macro-regional strategies. the committee also welcomed the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and the poorest communities. however, the shortcomings of regional cohesion policy persist: delays in payments, administrative complexity in making a project eligible, lack of information and transparency for project promoters and local authorities, reprogramming of the structural funds for migrants, and the use of regional policy to promote euro-regionalism. the support for improving the administrative capacity of certain member states and local authorities will be given priority to the eastern european countries. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the motion for a resolution does not call into question the holding of an urban agenda or the pursuit of macro-regional strategies. it also continues to welcome the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and the poorest communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which regrets the delays in the launch and implementation of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period and calls on the commission and the member states to use the flexibility available, to simplify cohesion policy and, more generally, to remove all the barriers that are causing delays. it also calls for improving administrative capacity to facilitate the absorption of funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (eahp) and the principle of the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (eahp). it also continues to welcome the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and the poorest communities. these are communities which, let us remember, in times of economic crisis, need more flexibility in obtaining structural funds and better coordination with state/regional plan contracts. finally, it should be noted that the motion for a resolution does not deal with the thorny question of the reprogramming of the structural funds in favour of programmes for the reception of migrants.
in writing. - i voted against this text. following the regional development committee's review of the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, it draws up a set of proposals. indeed, many points have been raised in this review and call into question the effectiveness of cohesion policy. the rapporteur therefore recommends reducing payment deadlines and simplifying the structural funds process. however, the text does not focus on the underlying political problems of the europe 2020 objectives, which are at the expense of the poorest local and regional authorities and the interests of the member states.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. although some of the provisions of the text are appropriate, it does not call into question the maintenance of an urban agenda, nor the pursuit of macro-regional strategies. we oppose the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and in particular the poorest communities. the question of reprogramming the structural funds to programmes for the reception of migrants is not addressed. finally, it should be stressed that support for improving the administrative capacity of certain member states and local authorities will go primarily to the eastern countries with the lowest rates of absorption of the structural funds.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for an acceleration of cohesion policy. with a budget of €350 billion until 2020, it is the main tool for regional development, through various envelopes such as the european social fund. the resolution calls for simplification of the administrative procedures for accessing these funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. but the root of the problem remains. the text wants to make this social policy subject to the economic requirements of brussels and in particular to the stability and growth pact and its remedies, 'structural reforms' and 'good governance'. in the end, this is a disengagement of the state and additional budget cuts at national level. the text leaves room for only the largest companies, with administrative capacity and expertise, to respond to european calls for tenders. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i note positively in this report the reduction of payment deadlines or the simplification of the commitment and monitoring process of the structural funds. the proposal is not critical of the pursuit of an urban agenda or of macro-regional strategies. moreover, it praises the europe 2020 objectives or the principle of thematic concentration, which are against the interests of france and the less wealthy communities. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against because the motion for a resolution does not call into question the pursuit of an urban agenda or the pursuit of macro-regional strategies. it also continues to welcome the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and the poorest communities. the local authorities who need more flexibility in obtaining structural funds and better coordination with state/regional plan contracts, especially in times of crisis.
in writing. ‒ it should be noted that the motion for a resolution does not address the thorny issue of reprogramming the structural funds in favour of programmes to welcome migrants at the moment (it is necessary to wait for the amendments to be tabled). finally, it goes without saying that support for improving the administrative capacity of some member states and local authorities will go first to the eastern countries with the lowest absorption rates of the structural funds. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this text aims to speed up the implementation of the cohesion policy, which has been significantly delayed, for the period 2014-2020. i support in particular the call on the member states to simplify this policy and to remove all the barriers which cause delays. the effectiveness of a policy depends above all on its readability and accessibility. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. with a budget of €351.8 billion for the period 2014-2020, cohesion policy is the european union's main investment policy. it targets all cities and regions of the union with the aim of supporting job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improving the quality of life of citizens. however, implementation of the cohesion policy has been delayed. we therefore ask the commission to take a number of measures to speed up the process: to inform on the obstacles encountered in the member states, to support the building of administrative capacity at national, regional and local level, to accelerate work to simplify procedures and maintain a high degree of transparency, or to encourage the involvement of the eib through increased technical and financial support. finally, it is important to raise public awareness and increase the visibility of the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the implementation of cohesion policy to be done more quickly and more effectively. the aim here is to raise the risk of unused sums being released. it is crucial to avoid such a situation. the commission and the member states must use the flexibility available to them to remove all the barriers which are the cause of delays in payment and implementation. i supported this resolution because it also calls for the full use of the administrative capacity of the member states and their local authorities to ensure a greater absorption of funds. cohesion policy is necessary to finance the development of our european territories; it is therefore necessary for the union and the member states to engage more fully, more efficiently and more rapidly in the implementation of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ some of the positions taken by the regi committee are common sense, notably the one concerning the reduction of payment deadlines, which should be a priority for the european commission, or the simplification of the entire process of commitment and monitoring of the structural funds. however, this motion for a resolution does not call into question the maintenance of an urban agenda or the pursuit of macro-regional strategies. it also continues to welcome the principle of thematic concentration and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which run counter to the interests of france and the poorest communities. these are communities which, let us remember, in times of economic crisis, need more flexibility in obtaining structural funds and better coordination with state/regional plan contracts. finally, it should be noted that the motion for a resolution does not address the thorny issue of the reprogramming of the structural funds in favour of programmes to welcome migrants. finally, it goes without saying that support for improving the administrative capacity of some member states and local authorities will go first to the eastern countries with the lowest absorption rates of the structural funds. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ with a budget of 350 billion for the period 2014-2020, cohesion policy is one of the eu's main policies in budgetary terms. in theory, cohesion policy is supposed to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between regions and complement other european policies in the fields of education, employment, energy, the environment, research and innovation. unfortunately, the european institutions are increasingly turning it into a means of submitting to the union's economic policies, in particular structural reforms, the implementation of the european semester and, therefore, austerity in general. so we are turning our backs more and more on the original objectives. the resolution supports this drift and calls for its implementation to be accelerated, while at the same time simplified to take account of delays in payment and the slow completion of current programmes. the gue/ngl tried during the negotiations to challenge these adverse developments. but it didn't work. the epp and s&d both voted in favour of the amendment on structural reforms. i have chosen to abstain in order to take account of the need for such funding for projects, particularly regional projects, but by refusing to endorse this new approach.
mr president, if these reforms are presented and adopted quickly, they will finally enable europe, but above all the states, and especially those which the geography of europe has placed on the external borders of the union, to manage and welcome in a responsible, solidarity-based, humane and dignified way the people who are fleeing war and violence. the first package of measures with the major reform of the dublin regulation is probably the most significant, and we have been calling for it for many months. so, if the commission has basically fulfilled a significant part of the contract with the negligence i bring, echoing cecilia and other colleagues, on the reception of unaccompanied minors , it is now time to make a clear appeal to the states, because the blockage of the states leads to the fact that, in the end, all the work on the "asylum" package that took place and negotiated from 2008 to 2012 has been so unfinished that after just two years, we are forced to reform it. this persistence in blocking and delaying is deadly both for refugees and for citizens, our fellow citizens who expect something else from europe.
mr president, the dublin regulation is not new. we know that this system is inefficient, unfair and expensive. the current crisis highlights these failures and reminds us that it is urgent to rethink them. however, the commission has not made this choice. i understand the reason, but i don't share it. i can think of two words to describe this proposal: re-busting and red rag. why re-arm? the dublin system had to be shaken to its foundations and will be maintained. the commission adds a touch of solidarity by providing for a specific relocation mechanism in the event of a crisis. but the basic mechanism of distribution is the same, and it's flawed. the commission does indeed envisage significant financial penalties for those who are unwilling to comply, but if this fine is intended to act as a deterrent, it is legitimate to think that this financial solidarity is realistic. unless the amount of financial penalties fixed also serves as a red cloth and is useful in diverting attention from certain objectionable provisions in the new regulation. i am thinking in particular of the quasi-punitive measures envisaged to combat the secondary movements of claimants. i am also thinking of the primacy of the concepts of 'safe third country' and 'first country of asylum' before any designation of the member state responsible for the examination. the dublin system's golden rule of first country of entry is not only maintained but strengthened. this mechanism will therefore continue to pose a number of logistical challenges in frontline countries to ensure individual examination, appeal procedures and a dignified reception of these populations. there is no easy solution to this problem, but i am not sure that the proposed calculation is the right one. the risk is that we end up with an unchanged dublin system, or worse, with reduced rights for applicants and even less readable arrangements for the states.
in writing. the commission finally puts forward a proposal to revise dublin. unfortunately, this is only a re-write, which does not call into question the foundations of the present system. we cannot accept that the criterion of irregular entry remains applicable. first-entry countries should become registration countries only, so that they no longer have to process asylum applications from everyone who arrives on their territory. the 'equity mechanism' should therefore not only apply in case of emergency, but on a permanent basis. finally, while the proposal to sanction countries which refuse solidarity is welcome, there must also be guarantees that these sanctions will be effectively applied. what is needed is a harmonisation and europeanisation of asylum procedures at european level, to create a unified and effective european asylum system. we must also advocate the creation of a genuine european asylum agency to oversee this new system and process asylum applications in a centralised way. the commission is proposing the creation of such an agency, but not in the same framework and not with the same powers. we will fight throughout the parliamentary process to improve this proposal, which does not meet our expectations.
madam president, i would like to make a point of order, because this is not the first time that mr marias has compared refugee camps, or what can happen in greece, with what happened in the concentration camps. i have heard, according to tradition, that he compared it to the dachau camp. i would like to remind you that in france - and the parliament is located in strasbourg - any attempt to deny the existence of the european union is punishable by law. comparing what is happening today to dachau is a way of denying the genocide that took place during the second world war. i think that as president you should oppose such talk being made in our house.
madam president, to return to schengen, i would say that the term has become a 'paradox', a kind of living paradox. today it is used by some who, in order to suppress freedom of movement, use it as a scapegoat for all our ills and all their ills. for others, including myself and many other european citizens, this is the most tangible thing europe has to offer, as the commissioner has said, the most tangible achievement. in this respect, if i may, in my constituency, which is neighbour to three european countries - luxembourg, the german länder and belgium - schengen is part of the daily life of those men and women who work on the other side, in a member state. so behind schengen there are men, women, activities, trade, the economy. in addition, 1.250 billion people travel within the european union, not counting students. of course, there are improvements that can and should be made to strengthen the agreement, notably through the commission's communication 'back to schengen', but the answers are many. one of them, which we have already discussed, is going to be put to the vote in parliament: the question of external borders, a european body of border and coastguards which is fully european. schengen also means helping countries which are on the external borders and are facing difficulties. it's having excellent intelligence cooperation. this is in our common interest, but it is above all our european responsibility, and this must be shared.
madam president, the council and the commission in brussels are announcing their intention to restore a fully functioning schengen system. in eurocratic parlance, this means 'save the schengen soldier'. this whimsy will cost us dearly: 6 billion euros given to turkey and promises of visas for 78 million turks. why all this? to persuade her to take back 72,000 migrants, not one more! the remaining migrants, numbering in the millions, will be relocated to the member states. woe to the states that resist. it will cost them 250,000 euros per refused migrant. it's time to face reality. schengen is a total failure, a sieve whose holes cannot be filled. the people of europe do not want it anymore. the european union must listen to them or it will disappear.
the question is "blue cardboard". a press release from the european parliament dated 4 may announced that all parliamentary work in committee would be suspended on turkey until it met the 72 criteria. but we did work on turkey last monday in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. does this not, mrs stevens, prove that the commission is determined to give up everything to turkey?
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i welcome this debate, as i am the one who initiated the request. this is a key point in the eu-turkey agreement, which we learned in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on monday was not one and therefore would not be subject to the approval of this parliament. this is a key point for mr. erdogan, the only real issue for him, as he is apparently preparing for a new election campaign to seek, once again, to obtain the majority needed to change the country's constitution. the european union is obsessed with the issue of migrants, and mr erdogan has his blackmail tool. it is not a matter of what is happening in turkey, it is not a matter of the kurds being massacred, when the un has just drawn our attention to this point, once again. it does not matter that their elected representatives are sent to prison, as well as all those who dare to denounce these facts and that democracy is increasingly being questioned in this country. worse, next week the turkish national assembly is expected to amend its constitution to lift collectively the parliamentary immunity of some 130 deputies. that's a good point. and you tell us that human rights are respected in turkey. you tell us that the criteria on migrants and refugees are met and, in particular, criteria 14, 24 to 28 and 62. you tell us that there is no infringement of the freedom of movement of citizens in turkey and no discrimination in this respect criterion 57. i am generally in favour of visa liberalization agreements but not in any way, not under any conditions, not by turning a blind eye to what is happening in turkey today. i am therefore waiting for you to tell us, commissioner, how turkey meets the various criteria i have mentioned and which are allegedly being met. these are not details.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in the age of confession. i would like to thank mr schulz for recognising that the european dream is being short-changed. "europe is a promise, but a promise that has not been kept", he said a week ago. he's right, you know. many europeans have bought into the european union dream, which they have been cleverly sold. today, this project has become the nightmare of the peoples of europe. we have another example today with the bad agreement with turkey, which you are imposing on the peoples of europe following president erdogan's coup d'état. it exercises a veritable migration dictate through a terrible blackmail where, in exchange for illusory protection against the surge of migration, turkey demands 6 billion euros. with this blackmail, mr erdogan has also obtained from you the resumption of turkey's accession negotiations with the european union. he now orders you to grant his nationals free access to the territory of our nations, with the abolition of short-stay visas. who knows whether tomorrow not only tens of millions of turks in turkey, but also turkish-speaking people in the caucasus and central asia, will have the right to a one-way ticket to europe thanks to the turkish passport that can be granted to them. you are disarming the states and peoples of europe by going so far as to demand their financial participation in the flood of migration through this crazy project of the european commission to fine each rejected migrant 250,000 euros. you have declared the lands of our people "lands open to mass immigration and turkish influence". president erdogan is just playing the cards you left him. he wants to dominate the region through a policy of destabilization in syria, he wants to make europe give in through the migration weapon, and, as in any racket, he promises to protect you from the threat he himself has created. today you pretend to fight over a few convergence criteria, they are just smoke screens to hide your defeat. we, the patriots, intend to defend our nations, which your treachery has offered to the flood of migration. you wanted to subdue us, you'll have to resign one day. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, you consider that we need turkey to solve a problem that you have created, which is the abolition of the internal borders of the european union, the abolition of national borders. if we had national borders, we could put policies in place to precisely protect our people from this flood of migration. so you create a problem by removing national frontiers and then you subject the peoples of the union to a shameful agreement with someone who is really blackmailing us. i would point out that this is an agreement which was not concluded by the commission, nor, of course, by the european parliament, but by mrs merkel, who had no mandate whatsoever to negotiate it.
mr president, the commission has drawn up a very mixed assessment of turkey's efforts to meet its 72 criteria. in fact, according to our calculations, only 19 were satisfied. today everything has miraculously changed, and turkey meets almost all but five of the requirements, including biometric passports, the fight against corruption, data protection and cooperation with europol. at the same time as the threat of a resumption of visa requirements for two friendly countries, canada and the united states, looms, the liberalization of visa requirements for turkey may seem surprising. i propose that we finally affirm a triple choice with a clear line: no to any prospect of accession, yes to a financial effort and no visa facilitation without readmission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not know whether i will repeat this statement, which may be a little optimistic, but what is certain, ladies and gentlemen - and we all know this - is that most revolutions are born out of the soil of fiscal injustice. as the commissioner has just said, there is exasperation among our citizens because, revelation after revelation, they are realizing that one of the most sacred principles of our democracies - that is, equality before tax - is being flouted and undermined by a number of practices such as aggressive optimisation, tax optimisation, which means that a number of multinationals are paying ridiculously low taxes, and, moreover, in countries where they have no real economic activity. indeed, mr moscovici, you said that there were dissatisfactions. i would say rather requirements, but at the same time we recognise - because we have to recognise - that the work which is being presented to us today - the tax package which you have presented in committee and in plenary - is undoubtedly in the right direction. that is what our fellow citizens expect of us and in that respect it is good. then there is the debate to which mr rosati has just referred. we in the socialist group believe that we can go further on a number of issues, particularly on the threshold. that is why we say: "let's take companies with more than 750 million euros in turnover to 40 million". why would you do that? not because we are maximalists, but because this is a position which has already been adopted by the european parliament. i would remind you that this is what we voted unanimously for with the directive on shareholder rights. secondly, because we are actually negotiating. as you all know, the council is not very forthcoming on taxation issues, particularly transparency. the european parliament must have added value and send a clear signal. i believe we can do it and we should do it. in any case, what is certain is that, if we are not dissatisfied, we are demanding, vigilant, but also enthusiastic about going further with you, commissioner.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, thank the commissioner for the quality of his cooperation and, with regard to the three institutions, make a remark and a recommendation. first, a remark: once again, it is proposed to amend an existing regulation whose ink is barely dry, since cooperation between tax administrations in the union resulted in a directive in 2011 which was updated in 2014, that is yesterday. "better lawmaking" is often translated as "fewer, shorter laws". this philosophy should be complemented by the phrase 'less laws, longer laws' because it covers all aspects of the problem and has credible penalties. the second recommendation is that we are in the process of introducing here and there a whole range of laws on information requirements to which multinationals are now subject. these texts are necessary to move from the dark age to the age of transparency. but let us have the good sense to be consistent: between banking activities, forestry and mining operations, shareholder rights, country-by-country declarations, oecd recommendations, eu texts and national laws that exist here and there, let us be sure to keep the same criteria, the same rules and the same obligations. experience shows that the pursuit of virtue is more conducive to the silent development of vice than the fixing, once and for all, of a common rule, even if it can be perfected.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we will not reduce inequalities unless we invent a new type of development, unless we loosen the grip of austerity by increasing wages and pensions and if we do not get out of the precariousness of work. even with a level of wealth produced equal to what existed before the financial shock of 2008, people are living worse today, inequalities are growing, there are more people and workers who are poor. we must therefore go beyond the present logic and create the conditions for a new distribution of wealth and a new way of producing it. progress is urgently needed towards new social rights for employees, action against tax evasion which costs the european states €1 trillion a year, closure of tax havens and the creation of a harmonised taxation of capital. we must also use the leverage of credit, in particular the €1 trillion of monetary creation from the european central bank, so that it really serves the useful investment that creates jobs, production, ecological development and human development, and thus new services which are the essential tools to combat social and territorial inequalities. it is an urgent project that must be launched and that would lend credence to a new european social project.
for the greens/efa group madam president, as my colleagues have said, it is true that we had a resolution on 11 february 2015 on meat in processed foods. parliament had asked the commission to submit legislative proposals to make it compulsory, rather than optional, to indicate the origin of meat in processed foods. today is may 11, 2016, so it's been over a year. what has the commission done? apart from reports, as you have said, commissioner, there are still no legislative proposals. we are also very disappointed that you say: 'it should not be compulsory, it should be voluntary'. but we are working for all european citizens. many countries, such as france, spain and portugal, want to know where their food comes from. you tell us the cost is high. that's not true, man. many associations have shown that the cost is not higher. some colleagues have spoken about the eurobarometer survey, which shows that consumers are in favour of the indication of origin, and the ufc-que choisir also said that the majority of consumers wanted the origin of the products. and now the resolution states that it is foreseen that the origin of meat must be indicated if it represents more than 50% of the weight of a processed product. but i want to tell you that the lasagna scandal is only 10 percent. i therefore ask my colleagues to support the amendment by the environmentalists who are asking for only 10%, because otherwise beef ravioli, lasagna and quiche will be out of the question. this is very important. commissioner, make an effort, we need legislation and we need mandatory labelling.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, you say that labelling would lead to nationalism, to protectionism. but when you have meat that comes from your country versus meat that comes from the united states, you're still sensitive to co2, you're still sensitive to the resolution that we voted to reduce global warming. as a result, a consumer will prefer to consume a local product rather than a meat that has travelled hundreds or thousands of kilometres. i'd like to know your position on that.
madam president, commissioner, as you have often said, the life expectancy of europeans is increasing sharply. at the same time, the concern of europeans who want food security, that is to say, to know what they are eating, what is on their plate, is becoming more and more important. so there is a measure - and the resolution says so - to protect the health of europeans at stake, and we must bear that in mind. it is not a question of protectionism, of course, but of promoting the protection of the health of europeans, as they are asking us to do, by introducing this system of traceability for prepared food and also for dairy products. 90% of european consumers surveyed want to know the origin of the meat used in their prepared dishes. in fact, despite your willingness, commissioner, the commission is hesitating because the agri-food industry is counting on a cost increase of 20 to 50%. as we know, studies have been carried out, and it is not a matter of a 20 to 50% surcharge, but only 0.015 euro cents for a 2.20 euro lasagna barrel. i think, commissioner, that it is time to go. let's go, by enabling greater food security through the implementation of this traceability system. in doing so, we will contribute to the great and beautiful image of the european union, which will then be protective of the health of our consumers. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". there are figures that speak for themselves. according to a recent survey from february 2016, 54% of prepared dishes do not mention the meat used; 74% of dishes containing chicken, 75% of strasbourg sausages and 92% of ham sandwiches do not specify the origin of the meat they contain. in recent years, however, we have seen scandals, organized mafias, and - i know this and you know it, all of you - we were confronted during the previous mandate with cases of animals that had been raised with antibiotics and yet had entered the food chain illegally.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again making the same request to the commission. i hope this time we will be heard. some argue that the increased costs and administrative burdens are the reason for rejecting this resolution, but farmers and processors already have an obligation to trace. so i find it hard to believe that asking for more transparency leads to such a big complication. nevertheless, this is an essential point for future legislation. we want to strike the right balance between the interests of consumers and the competitiveness of our businesses. it is also worth remembering that this is a consumer demand, they want more information and more transparency. we must take account of the possible increase in costs and administrative burdens, but we must also reconcile consumers with their diet after the various food crises we have experienced. others point to the threat to the unity of the internal market. but let us be realistic, the internal market is not one. consumer expectations vary widely from one member state to another, as do national laws. the question is not who has the best product but rather to answer the questions that consumers may have about social expectations. moreover, it seems to me that a mandatory common european framework would create less distortion than a voluntary rule. finally, i am afraid that the mere use of voluntary indication of the origin of products will create two categories of consumers: those who will have the choice of the product they want and those who will not.
mr president, the traceability of foodstuffs is a duty towards the consumer. he asks for it and rightly so, for his health and for his freedom of choice. there have been too many scandals in this area, and the horse meat scandal has been the most sensational. what is the harm in labelling the origin of food ingredients? we are told that the additional costs would be exorbitant, but that is not true. they'd only be playing on the margin on the costs. the need for traceability is such that a number of countries have taken the initiative themselves to move in this direction. the european union and the commission would therefore be well advised not to be in the rear, but to take the initiative on a subject which brings together european citizens. it is in their interest, but it is also in the interest of the producers and processors.
mr president, commissioner, the consumer asks for it, the producer hopes it will be safe. if we are to reach this point, the responsibility of the agri-food industry is very important because it is precisely its dysfunctions that have given rise to the consumer's questioning, doubt and scepticism about what is on his plate. you reject compulsory labelling, you advocate optional labelling, and i fear that in one way or another we are leading to a fragmentation of the single market. the commissioner, whatever measure you propose, the real question i have to ask myself is: what means will we have to ensure that it is actually applied and respected so that it really protects the consumer?
for the greens/efa group mr president, dams are a real heritage for every european country. they have not only produced electricity but also shaped landscapes, changed valleys, and altered the flow of rivers. the challenges are therefore not only energy-related, but also strategic and safety-related for the population basins that have adapted to the river's course. in the case of renewal of concessions, the question is not whether the operator should be public or private, since it will pay the same fees anyway. the question is rather what added value a new concessionaire will bring and, above all, how the concessionaires will work together to manage the shared valleys. a great danger is looming with the renewal of concessions and their competition. the fragmentation of concessions and the lack of a comprehensive approach could threaten the proper management of a resource as vital as it is dangerous. accidents are rare but avoidable if the dams are well coordinated from upstream to downstream by grouping the dams in the same concession. my question is simple: will the commission favour concession contracts by dam or will it follow the obvious but necessary logic of grouping by valley?
mr president, with this oral question on the hydropower sector in europe, i wanted to draw the commission's attention to the very important role of hydropower: firstly, because it is a renewable and storable source of energy and contributes both to the decarbonisation of our economy, to the security of our supply systems and to european energy autonomy and independence; secondly, because the hydroelectric sector and the operation of the various dams contribute to the development of the territory and the maintenance of local employment. there are very concrete realities behind every hydroelectric project. power stations and their operation have an impact on many sectors such as agriculture, drinking water supply, shipping, tourism, support for irrigation, flood management and contribute in various ways to territorial cohesion and development. i would therefore like to draw the commission's attention to the need to clarify the situation of the hydropower sector in europe and to take account of the plurality of organizations and regulations in the member states, which is a result of their history and geography, as the recent study by the florence school of regulation has shown. the rushed opening of hydroelectric concessions to competition as is being discussed in some member states, while there would be no impact on others risks destabilising this ecosystem in the long term. i therefore call on the commission to give this matter a quick thought, and i warn it not to open the door to a policy of 'double standards' which would be very detrimental to the energy union in europe.
mr president, with 16% of world electricity production, hydropower is the third largest source of electricity production in the world, and this is particularly important because it is vital energy for our territories, which represents thousands of jobs that cannot be relocated. it is perfectly integrated into its human and natural environment, whether in urban, rural or mountain areas. the rehabilitation of mills, abandoned sites and dams also contributes to the preservation of the architectural heritage, while providing an additional source of local energy revenues. secondly, it is a decarbonised energy - as has already been said - which is fully in line with the european energy and environmental objectives. but hydropower is not only a renewable energy source, it's also one of the few sectors that allows for storage. the liberalization of water concessions undertaken at european level must not be done in a brutal and hasty manner. many countries, including france, have made considerable efforts in this area. unfortunately, we don't want to take that into account. we must avoid at all costs any obstacles to investment in this sector. the signal sent today by the european commission to investors was not positive enough. even though competition is impossible, or very difficult, in some member states of the european union with high hydraulic production, those who have made efforts in this field have sometimes been unfairly singled out. how does the commission intend to accompany the development of this particular sector, which i must say is of great concern to the mountain regions?
mr president, commissioner, a dam is used to produce electricity, but it is also a tool for land use planning, it is also a tool for making the land more attractive. the future of dams is therefore a matter of concern to the local population. the differences which exist today between the departments of the european commission can no longer be sustained. we need a single discourse, we need a coherence between energy policy on the one hand and competition policy on the other. the landscape of hydraulic schemes in europe is diverse. we need a new text that sets out a framework that is understandable to all, that is applicable to all and that contributes to making water, here too, an energy europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, this report, which details the parental salary in three parts, even though it is presented in the best interests of the child, does not hide the very questionable, even dangerous, side effects for our societies. the statutory obligation of paternity leave, which is time-limited, non-transferable and paid in the same way as maternity leave, is an intolerable intrusion into the freedom of member states to decide, in conjunction with their social partners and national enterprises, on the amount of time to be devoted to private and professional life, especially in the context of the care of young children. it is also an infringement of the free choice of couples to induce and build their own family unit. finally, the report reveals the real hidden purpose of this system, far from its original objective: gender equality, a neologism designed to confuse all sexes in an inept and unfounded egalitarian caricature, the result being the denial of the sexual nature of the human species and therefore of its natural future. paradoxically, this is a total disregard for the characteristics of each sex, the quality and the reception of the child.
mr president, commissioner, 37% of the members of our assembly are women. this is not yet full parity but the gender balance is better respected here than in the case of parental leave, since less than 3% of men take parental leave. if europe is not to interfere in the choice of parents' education, we must nevertheless allow fathers and mothers who wish to take a moment to look after their children. parental leave is too often synonymous with loss of income for the household, threat to career or, worse, with removal from the labour market and creeping impoverishment. if we want to increase the employment rate of women and their pay without threatening our already ageing demographic, we must think about better coordination of leave time without stifling businesses, and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, under the strain. however, i also think that parental leave will not solve everything. other problems remain, in particular the problems of childcare. i also believe that not everything is necessarily the responsibility of the european union.
mr president, when we want to tackle the exploitation of human beings, we must look on the bright side. the thousands of illegal immigrant children who have been missing for over a year have unfortunately been fed into prostitution and modern-day slavery networks. this is the direct consequence of the union's irresponsible migration policy. this air appeal to the illegal flow is the infusion of mafia systems. another fundamental point, but one which is only covered in a small section of this report, is the exploitation of women for surrogacy and other methods of procreation. these gpa techniques are forms of marketing of catalogue-selected women and children. the union must not open up any way in european law that could encourage or recognize such a horror, a real regression. we must fight against all forms of exploitation of human beings and deal with the causes of these evils - mass immigration and libertarian liberalism are part of this. i'm sorry to disappoint some of the idealists.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in agreement on the error. the tatars are one of the 101 ethnic groups that make up the population of crimea. in the name of a so-called status of indigenous peoples, they would be more equal than others. true, they were persecuted by stalin, but the whole ukrainian people were persecuted. the majlis, an islamic consultative assembly, believes that the tatars have more rights on crimean soil than russians, germans, greeks, armenians and all other ethnic minorities, in the name of a questionable historical precedence, especially since the greeks were the first to build cities on the peninsula. contrary to the joint resolution text, the majlis was never recognized by any ukrainian power before the annexation of crimea by russia. the minister of justice of ukraine, mr golovati, in his reply to a parliamentary question dated 14 march 1997, stated that the action of the majlis was illegal in ukraine. the majlis has become a terrorist organization that hosts in the kherson region terrorists of the turkish organization "grey wolves". (protests at the end of the speech. mr. demesmaeker shouts "shame")
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution in support of the crimean tatars, which i personally co-signed. we demand the immediate lifting of the ban on their assembly by the authorities of the peninsula annexed by russia in 2014. this decision constitutes a direct persecution of the crimean tatar community and a politically motivated measure aimed at further intimidating its legitimate representatives. the ban on the tatar assembly, the legitimate, representative and recognized body of the indigenous population of crimea, is unacceptable! it is in fact likely to serve as a precedent for further discrimination and violations of human rights and fundamental civil liberties against this population, and at the same time it constitutes an attempt to expel them from the territory which is their historic homeland. we call on the eu to financially support the activities of the tatar assembly and to increase funding for human rights organisations in crimea.
madam president, the european union cannot, of course, tolerate the violation of human and civil rights, but it cannot tolerate torture and persecution, in the gambia as elsewhere. president yahya jammeh has violated the constitution by establishing an islamic republic, thereby imposing a state religion. this is unacceptable and the european union must be respected and democratic changes imposed in this small country of less than 2 million inhabitants, which is emptying itself of its substance by sending its youth away. to this end, it must freeze the aid granted to the gambian state. this does not, of course, exclude humanitarian interventions, which the region of which i was president for several years does. support the people, but not the dictators!
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the situation regarding human rights in gambia gives rise to serious concern, notably in the areas of freedom of expression, rights of lgbti persons, arbitrary arrests, torture and isolated detention. we use every opportunity to address these issues with our gambian interlocutors and to push for improvements. these subjects are regularly on the agenda of the article 8 political dialogue meetings, the most recent of which took place on 26 april in banjul. human rights concerns were also raised on 11 april when the gambian minister of foreign affairs held talks with high-level eu officials in brussels. unfortunately the crackdown on the two rare and peaceful political protests on 14 and 16 april 2016 confirmed our concerns. protesters were arrested, some were mistreated and one person died in custody. thirty-seven persons, including the leaders of the strongest opposition party, the united democratic party, are currently on trial on charges including conspiracy to commit a felony. this is particularly worrying as it occurs in the run-up to presidential and parliamentary elections in december 2016 and, respectively, april 2017. the eu has issued a statement voicing our concern at the crackdown and demanding an investigation. we are part of a common front, as similar statements were issued by the united states, the united nations and the united kingdom, as well as the economic community of west african states (ecowas) and the african commission on human and peoples’ rights. the united nations, the african union and ecowas deployed a joint high—level mission to gambia last week, which renewed calls on the government to respect freedom of expression, assembly and political participation, to allow due process of law and to conduct an investigation into the death of the opposition member. in the most recent article 8 political dialogue meeting in banjul on 26 april, the eu raised the crackdown on the protests among other human rights concerns. according to the gambian government, an investigation was underway and the results would be shared with the eu. the eu delegation to gambia continues to monitor the situation closely in contact with all stakeholders and strongly encourages the gambian government to follow the rule of law. we think that it is important to remain engaged in dialogue with the authorities, as this provides the best possible platform from which to address our concerns and to influence the situation concerning human rights and governance. the eu remains committed to supporting the gambian people in strengthening democracy, human rights and the rule of law and in building sustainable and inclusive development on the basis of the cotonou agreement.
author. madam president, what has been happening in djibouti for years is very worrying, and recent events are not reassuring. after revising the constitution to run for a fourth term in the presidential elections, president guelleh declared a state of emergency: murderous repression of the opposition, self-censorship of the only government press, extreme poverty, violence against women, and lack of respect for human rights. the only thing that could remind us that djibouti is supposed to be a democracy is the regular holding of elections - elections so rigged that president guelleh's scores no longer even create the illusion of democracy. in fact, it is still expected that european election observation missions will be able to be carried out. the african union, following these observation missions, recommends the establishment of an independent electoral commission to put an end to the democratic charade. the geography of djibouti makes it a strategic point that france has happily taken advantage of for years, since it has installed its main military base abroad. i have no doubt that my country is partly responsible for the political situation in djibouti, but so are other foreign powers: germany, china, japan and the united states also have military bases there. that is why i am calling not only on europe to act, but also on the countries militarily involved, so that they play their best role and not the one they have always been confined to playing, that is to say, defending their own interests. it's high time we put an end to hypocrisy.
author. madam president, according to many diplomats, and especially those of the countries that have military bases, and there are more and more of them, djibouti would be an anchor of stability. the reality is quite different. despite its considerable strengths, djibouti is ravaged by economic underdevelopment, widespread social misery and political gridlock, and the word is weak. this resolution is itself a revolution. i thank all those who contributed to it. in this resolution, we denounce in particular the growing repression in that country and, in particular, the one that followed the massacre of buldhoqo on 22 december 2015, in particular against those who dared to denounce the facts. we denounce the electoral masquerade of the presidential elections on 8 april. yes, all scores above 80% are, in general, tainted with irregularities. in fact, even the african union has acknowledged a number of irregularities. finally, we are here to echo the voices of those courageous djiboutian women who have begun a hunger strike to denounce the rape of which they are victims by members of the army, with impunity. we are calling for an independent international investigation. yes, there is an urgent need to lift the heavy weight of lead that weighs on this country and which the djiboutian people are paying for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in the tax field. the text proposes the introduction of country-by-country reporting in order to combat aggressive tax optimisation. the purpose of this reporting will be to enable member states' tax administrations to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are realised. this reporting is therefore a tool in the fight against letterbox companies or fictitious or abusive addresses. it should also be noted that it is the member states which will be obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in the event of non-compliance and which will derive the tax benefit from this.
in writing. - the rosati report is a first step which i welcome. however, in another text voted by the european parliament we have already obtained a similar public accounting report which is blocked in a scandalous way by the council. then there is the threshold: this country-by-country reporting will only apply to multinationals with more than €750 million in net annual turnover. we have fought to change this threshold, which de facto exempts 90% of multinationals. we have tabled an amendment to this effect, with the aim of lowering it to €40 million, the threshold corresponding to the definition of a 'large undertaking' in european law. it is incomprehensible that a section of the house, the conservative and liberal groups, refused to vote for transparency for all multinationals over €40 million. they voted in favour of this threshold last july; in the meantime, the panama papers have confirmed the need for force if necessary. the time was not right to slow down europe's fight against fraud and tax optimisation.
in writing. ‒ country reporting will be a tool in the fight against letterbox companies or fictitious or abusive addresses. it is the member states which are obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance and which will derive the tax benefit from this. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that european countries must unite to fight tax evasion, particularly that of multinationals. the lack of coordination in tax matters benefits big business and prevents europe from acting. i welcome this resolution which requires companies with a total turnover of eur 750 000 000 or more to complete a country-by-country declaration for their fiscal year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report requiring automatic and mandatory exchanges of information in the tax area for companies with a turnover of more than eur 750 million. this report is a first step in the fight against tax optimisation or tax evasion. this is the translation into european law of an oecd agreement approved at the g20 last november. it requires multinational companies to report to tax administrations only, country by country, their main tax information: nature of activity, employees, turnover, profit before tax, total tax due, corporate taxes paid.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out parliament's position on the proposal for a council directive imposing country-by-country reporting in the fight against aggressive tax optimisation. the purpose of this provision is to enable the tax administrations of the member states to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are realised. the proposal for a directive would make it compulsory to report turnover, profit before tax, tax paid, etc., by country, in each jurisdiction where multinational groups operate. i voted in favour of this measure, which makes the automatic and compulsory exchange of information a tool in the fight against letterbox companies or fictitious or abusive addresses, especially since the text provides that it is the member states which will be obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance, and which will derive the tax benefit from it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which contains the proposal for a directive to impose country-by-country reporting. the directive will make it possible to combat the abusive tax optimisation practices of certain multinationals, while protecting smes. it will allow member states to ensure that the profits of large companies (the proposed threshold is €750 million in turnover for the parent of the group, a sufficiently high threshold to avoid imposing new constraints on smes) are taxed where they are made. multinational companies would be required to report in each country their turnover, profit before tax, tax paid, employees, assets, or subsidies received. where appropriate, member states will be empowered to take dissuasive sanctions. finally, it would also constitute a tax advantage. the only disadvantage of this proposal for a directive is that the european commission is the primary recipient of the information and can decide whether or not the reporting should be made public. this point could potentially compromise business secrecy.
in writing. ‒ the rosati report sets out the european parliament's position on the proposal for a directive requiring country-by-country reporting in the fight against aggressive tax optimisation. this reporting enables member states' tax administrations to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are made. the proposal for a directive would make it compulsory to declare by country turnover, profit before tax, tax paid, employees, assets, subsidies received in each jurisdiction where multinational groups operate. for this main reason, i voted, through this report, to continue the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in tax matters is part of the european commission's legislative package to improve tax transparency following the revelations of the luxleaks scandal. the european parliament was consulted on this text. the european commission is proposing that multinational companies with a turnover of €750 million or more provide the tax authorities of the member state in which they operate with a country-by-country declaration. this statement contains the turnover, profit before tax, profit taxes, number of employees and share capital of the multinational enterprise. this information will then be automatically and compulsorily exchanged with the other authorities of the member states concerned by the multinational. this directive is a major step forward in the fight against tax optimisation. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this consultation report concerns the revision of the rules on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. this exchange of information between the tax authorities of the member states would become mandatory and automatic. the text proposes that multinational groups of companies provide certain information (amount of turnover; profit before tax; number of employees; share capital; intangible assets) annually for each tax jurisdiction in which they operate. all multinational groups with a turnover of more than eur 150 million (oecd standard) must complete this country-by-country declaration. i supported this report because i believe that multinational groups of companies should be transparent with regard to european tax jurisdictions.
in writing. ‒ the end of tax fraud and evasion requires the introduction of public country-by-country accounting reporting. the rosati report is a milestone, as it provides for the automatic and mandatory exchange of information between member states' administrations and aims to require multinationals to declare, country by country and to tax administrations only, their main information. i welcome this step forward, which for the time being will only apply to multinationals with a net annual turnover of more than €750 million. we have fought to change this threshold, which de facto exempts 90% of multinationals, without being heard for the time being, even though the panama papers scandal shows a general awareness. i am therefore concerned about the provisions introduced by the council in the directive on administrative cooperation, which weaken the general scope of the text.
in writing. ‒ this text deals with country-by-country reporting, which is intended to enable member states' tax administrations to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are realised. this is one of the key measures in the oecd's base erosion profit shifting (beps) plan, i.e. the fight against base erosion and profit shifting. the proposal for a directive would make it compulsory to declare by country turnover, profit before tax, tax paid, number of employees, assets and subsidies received in each jurisdiction where multinational groups operate. although the commission is the recipient of information and has the discretion to decide whether it should be published, these measures are a tool in the fight against letterbox companies and fictitious or abusive addresses. since the member states are obliged to take dissuasive sanctions in the event of non-compliance and will derive the tax benefit from this, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote for: country reporting will be a tool to combat letterbox companies or fictitious or abusive addresses. it is the member states which are obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance, and which will derive the tax benefit from this.
in writing. ‒ in a different context from the financial globalisation we are experiencing, where capital flows freely from one end of the planet to the other, we would not even ask ourselves the question of tax optimisation, its morality, its legality and its harmful consequences. but in reality, even if the european level of decision-making is not satisfactory, we must act. that is why i voted in favour of mr rosati's report, which is part of the fight against tax evasion or aggressive tax planning by multinationals. it is no longer acceptable - it never was - that large corporations with huge profits, aided by armies of lawyers, escape taxation, while captive taxpayers, smes and citizens, are crushed by it. the so-called 'country-by-country reporting', i.e. the obligation to declare to the tax authorities the profits made by each country, taxes paid or due, turnover, staff numbers, etc., as well as the automatic exchange of this information between administrations should make it possible to detect suspicious behaviour. there are many negative aspects to this report, such as the role of the commission. but since the parliament's opinion was only advisory, this did not justify a different position.
in writing. following the revelations about the panama papers, a message of firmness must be sent to tax evaders. it's a social justice issue that i care about above all. that is why i supported this text, which is one of the three proposed in the 'moscovici package' against tax evasion presented last january, and which aims to require multinationals to declare, country by country, to tax administrations only, their main tax information: nature of activity, employees, turnover, profits before tax, total tax due, corporate tax, etc. for the socialists, the aim was to lower the threshold currently set for exempting multinationals below 40 million, not 750 million as proposed by the commission, thus exempting 90% of multinationals. we will continue to fight to raise this threshold and to achieve a country-by-country public ratio. conservatives and liberals must stop turning a deaf ear to the calls of our citizens for the firmness that seems needed now more than ever; it is simply unacceptable to go in any other direction.
in writing. ‒ country-by-country reporting will be a tool in the fight against 'mailbox' companies or fictitious or abusive addresses. it is the member states which are obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance, and which will derive the tax benefit from this. i found these measures positive and voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in the tax field. it allows for better cooperation between the tax administrations of the european union with a view to more efficient tax collection and a better fight against fraud in europe. it is urgent that the various tax authorities in the member states exchange information so that multinationals cannot evade tax in respect of their activities in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in tax matters. the purpose of country-by-country reporting is to enable member states' tax administrations to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are realised. the proposal for a directive would make it compulsory to declare by country turnover, profit before tax, tax paid, employees, assets and subsidies received in each jurisdiction where multinational groups operate. country-by-country reporting will be a tool in the fight against letterbox companies or fictitious or abusive addresses. it is the member states which are obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance, and which will derive the tax benefit from this.
in writing. ‒ country reporting is a measure that enables member states to combat fraud and abuse by multinationals. this tool gives national administrations the ability to ensure that the profits of large companies are actually taxed. the reporting already exists for banking institutions and the text therefore proposes to extend it to multinationals. although the commission is one of the recipients of this information, only the member states will be able to apply sanctions to illegal companies, and will benefit from this tax. i have expressed my support for this text by voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. in the context of the fight against aggressive tax optimisation, the dariusz rosati report sets out the european parliament's position on the proposal for a directive requiring country-by-country reporting. this would enable member states' tax administrations to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are made.
in writing. ‒ this initiative, which did not wait for the panama papers to be put on the table by the commission, is good news in the vast jungle of tax avoidance and tax optimisation by large transnational firms. country-by-country reporting requires multinationals to report to states their economic and tax information in each state or tax jurisdiction. but the european parliament's report, which is only consulted for its opinion on this tax matter within the competence of the member states, remains rather limited because of the resistance of right-wing groups, who refused to extend the measure to more than ... 10% of multinationals. even if these transparency measures will not restore a level playing field between all taxpayers, smes and large groups, and only affect an extreme minority of companies engaged in international tax optimisation, it remains that, for the first time in europe, we will be able to ensure the traceability of the profits of multinational companies. the statements they are required to make may even be made public in the near future. the new commission proposal in this respect is an interesting basis for work to validate and extend the achievements of this text which i voted for.
in writing. ‒ the current legal framework for tax cooperation does not provide for the exchange of country-by-country tax returns of companies between member states. in view of the recent tax evasion scandals, the report we have before us seeks to remedy this. it thus requires an automatic and mandatory exchange of tax information country by country for multinationals located in the eu or carrying out operations in the eu. however, only multinationals with revenues of more than eur 750 million are concerned and these reports will not be made public. i am abstaining in order to encourage these efforts at transparency, without any illusions as to the arrangements that the multinationals will be able to put in place to circumvent this still weak system, given the 'protective' precautions originally provided for in this very timid text.
in writing. ‒ the content of this amended proposal is comprehensive and will allow countries to be more effective in combating over-optimised taxation. if the commission retrieves information because of certain amendments, it has no power. in short, this report is an important step forward in the fight against fictitious or abusive transfer of profits. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of country-by-country reporting is to enable member states' tax administrations to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are realised. this is one of the key measures in the oecd beps plan (no. 13), which obviously needs to be supported, as did the automatic exchange of rescripts or the taxe 1 final report. the scope of parliament's opinion is comprehensive and will help to restore a correct estimate of the tax revenue due. the commission is the recipient of the information, not just an exchange between member states' administrations. it will also consider whether or not to give publicity to the reporting, which is undesirable given the issues in terms of the advantage that this might give to competitors not subject to such regulation. in the end, despite these remarks, country-by-country reporting will be a tool in the fight against letterbox companies or fictitious addresses. it is the member states which are obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance, and which will derive the tax benefit from this. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ country reporting will be a tool in the fight against letterbox companies or fictitious or abusive addresses. it is the member states which are obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance, and which will derive the tax benefit from this. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which welcomes the european commission's proposal to introduce an automatic exchange of information on corporate taxation between national tax authorities. the main objective of this text is to combat aggressive corporate tax planning effectively. however, safeguards must be provided to ensure that competition in the european single market is respected without being undermined, in particular, sometimes, by favourable tax arrangements for multinational firms decided in certain member states.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to establish an automatic and mandatory exchange of information in the tax field in order to reduce the aggressive tax planning practices used by multinational companies, which distort competition to the detriment of smes in particular. the commission's proposal also covers tax competition between member states to attract multinational companies or the revenue shortfall for multinational companies. more broadly, this text is part of the union's political will to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. while we welcome the progress made, we regret that this text falls under the consultation procedure, thus limiting the role that meps can play in this area. the econ committee of the european parliament, however, has strengthened the original proposal by involving the commission more or by extending the information covered by this exchange. in accordance with the political lines presented, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in the field of taxation. it aims to require the country-by-country reporting of tax information by large multinationals: the nature of the activity, the number of employees, turnover, profits, taxes, etc. these declarations will be made to the tax administrations of the various member states. the european commission will also have access to it, a possibility which the socialist and democratic group has managed to introduce into the text. this text, which is part of the 'moscovici package' to combat tax evasion, is therefore an additional step, but it does not go far enough. while parliament has already spoken out on several occasions in favour of country-by-country, public reporting, which would affect companies with a turnover of €40 million, due to the reluctance of the right, this text provides for a threshold of €750 million, which in fact excludes many companies from its scope. this is an unsatisfactory situation which will have to be corrected as new proposals are put on the table. the fight against tax evasion must therefore continue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerns the revision of the 2011 directive which was already updated in 2014 and which establishes all the procedures for better cooperation between tax administrations in the european union. these are technical measures aimed at more efficient tax collection and the fight against fraud in europe. the text states that multinational companies with total consolidated revenues of at least eur 750 million will have to report on a country-by-country basis in the member state in which the ultimate parent entity of the group is resident for tax purposes. the fight against crossborder tax evasion is fundamental and in this sense we must strengthen transparency and cooperation so that they are maximised between the tax authorities of the european union. the adoption of this text is a step forward and will reduce any harmful and unfair tax competition.
in writing. ‒ the rosati report sets out parliament's position on the proposal for a directive requiring country-by-country reporting in the fight against aggressive tax optimisation. the purpose of country-by-country reporting is to enable member states' tax administrations to ensure that multinational corporations' profits are taxed where they are realised. this is one of the flagship measures of the oecd beps plan. the proposal for a directive would make it compulsory to declare by country turnover, profit before tax, tax paid, employees, assets and subsidies received in each jurisdiction where multinational groups operate. in the end, despite some negative points, country-by-country reporting will be a tool in the fight against letterbox companies or fictitious or abusive addresses. it is the member states which are obliged to take the dissuasive sanctions in case of non-compliance, and which will derive the tax benefit from this. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the oral question to the commission on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail. a study by the ngo oceana revealed a problem with the labelling of fish served in restaurants in brussels (including in the european institutions). one third of the fish studied were incorrectly labelled, demonstrating a problem of traceability of fishery products. this oral question therefore asked the commission to explain to what extent the error was being made, what measures were to be taken to counter the problem and, above all, where was the implementation of a european eco-label. while i am of course in favour of measures to ensure the traceability of fishery products and to inform consumers as precisely as possible, i am strongly opposed to the introduction of a single label which would deprive member states of the possibility of creating their own, more complete, national labels.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, we are demanding a robust traceability system for all fishery products sold in eu restaurants and shops. this would help to prevent incorrect labelling. more generally, it seems to me that a european policy of reliable fish labelling would strengthen consumer confidence and the economic development of the european fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, is a step in the right direction. but it is unacceptable that a single european label could effectively deprive states of their right to create more stringent and consumer-protective labels. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of this oral question which, based on a study by the ngo oceana, reveals, based on surveys carried out in restaurants in brussels, that one third of fish is not labelled and that the traceability of fishery products is not ensured. if the question to the commission is how these errors have occurred and what measures the commission and the member states intend to take to ensure the adoption of a european ecolabel to facilitate the traceability of fishery products, i cannot support a single european labelling which would supplant the labels of the member states and in effect deprive them of their right to create more stringent and consumer-protective labels.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this oral question which, while it is well-intentioned to investigate the problems of mislabelling fishery products and to ensure that these products are traceable from a food safety perspective does not offer an effective solution. i welcome the work of the ngo oceana, which has revealed these shortcomings in the labelling of seafood and in particular has lifted the veil on the lack of reliability of this labelling even in the restaurants of the european institutions. it seems to me therefore reasonable that answers should be sought as to how these errors could have occurred and what steps can be taken to remedy them. however, i question the relevance of the creation of a single european public label, as proposed in the oral question. such a measure, which in theory would allow for a certain degree of visibility, would in reality lead to the abolition of national labels, which often have higher environmental and health standards: we cannot afford to take the risk of harmonization which would lower the level of french health safety.
in writing. ‒ labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, is in line with what we are asking for. i cannot, however, accept a single european label which would effectively deprive the member states of their right to create more stringent labels to protect consumers. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ a study by the ngo oceana has revealed cases of mislabelling of fish served in restaurants in brussels, including in the european institutions. the study shows that the traceability of fishery products is not properly ensured, due to the lack of reliable labelling. however, caution should be exercised with regard to european eco-labelling, which could supplant national labels. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution was adopted following the finding that the labelling is incorrect in 6% of cases. these figures may be more alarming for certain noble species that are replaced by common species. for example, the fraud rate in the labelling of bluefin tuna is as high as 80%, according to some ngos. we must demand that the member states enforce european legislation, in particular the control of fishery products but also the dissuasive sanctions in the event of fraud. the mandatory information must be available to the consumer. it is for the member states to ensure that this information is accurate and available. since 2010, i have been advocating the creation of a single european label for fishery products, which would allow the voluntary information (ethical, social, environmental) to be concentrated. such a label would be legible, impartial and transparent and would provide reliable information to the consumer.
in writing. ‒ this resolution focuses on a recently published study which reveals worrying cases of incorrect labelling of fish served in restaurants in brussels. according to the study, about one third of the fish analysed were incorrectly labelled. in this context, the resolution expresses its concern at the results of several studies which have shown that fishery products sold on eu markets are often incorrectly labelled. it advocates a traceability system to ensure consumer confidence and a european strategy on labelling. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that consumer protection is an essential condition for the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail. in order to improve the traceability of these products, it is necessary to have a robust european labelling strategy in place to combat fraud and avoid incorrect labelling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the catering and retail sector because i want the labelling of these products to be more transparent. 70% of fishery and aquaculture products sold on the european market are imported. it is therefore necessary that they be subject to the same traceability standards as products originating in the european union. in voting in favour of this resolution i want to reiterate that any mislabelling must be punished, for example by more stringent national controls. i also support the idea that a single european label would benefit the consumer and the producer by establishing compliance with a number of environmental and health standards and by providing greater transparency and visibility of the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products.
in writing. ‒ abstention: labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, is in line with what we are asking. but we cannot accept a single european label which would effectively deprive the states of their right to create more stringent labels which would better protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of this resolution which aims to provide consumers with greater readability and transparency about the products they buy every day. the introduction of enhanced controls by member states on the labelling of fishery products should make it possible to combat labelling errors and fraud more effectively and thus contribute to increasing consumer confidence in the fishery product chain. finally, by providing consumers with precise geographical indications, the resolution will encourage them to prefer european products to their imported equivalents and thereby strengthen the competitiveness of european fishery products.
in writing. ‒ surveys have shown that in 6% of cases the labelling of fishery products was incorrect. this is even more alarming for high-value species such as tuna, where fraud in labelling is as high as 80%. after the food scandals that have rocked the agri-food industry in recent years, these figures can no longer be tolerated. they reveal weaknesses, or at least persistent inadequacies, in the control of the manufacture of the products we consume and in the deterrents used by the competent authorities to curb this trend. i therefore welcome the adoption of my colleague alain cadec's resolution calling for the creation of a single european label for fishery and aquaculture products. the label could provide consumers with assurance that the products they consume are in line with ethical, social and environmental commitments and restore lost trust.
in writing. ‒ labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, is in line with what we are asking for. but we cannot accept a single european label which would effectively deprive the states of their right to create more stringent labels which would better protect consumers. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which will allow for the establishment of a robust traceability system for all fishery products sold in eu restaurants and shops to help prevent mislabelling, boost consumer confidence and support the economic development of the eu fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the catering and retail trade. a study has revealed cases of mislabelling of fish served in restaurants in brussels, including in the european institutions. about one third of the fish tested were mislabeled. this study shows that the traceability of fishery products is not guaranteed, as there is no reliable labelling. the labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, is in line with what the front national is calling for. but we cannot accept a single european label which would effectively deprive the states of their right to create more stringent labels which would better protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ the committee on fisheries asked the commission a question about the incorrect labelling of fish. a study carried out in the catering departments of the european institutions and brussels shows that about a third of the fish were mislabeled. the question is twofold: what are the causes of these errors and what progress has been made in the european eco-labelling dossier. i think that traceability and labelling of products are essential, but i am strongly opposed to the creation of a single european label. member states should retain the freedom to create their own labels according to their own criteria. between good and bad, i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. a study by the ngo oceana revealed cases of mislabeling of fish served in the catering industry. this study shows that the traceability of fishery products is not guaranteed, or is poorly guaranteed, due to the lack of reliable labelling. we welcome the desire to ensure better traceability and better quality of products, but we are opposed to a single european label which would de facto deprive the states of their ability to create more stringent labels and more protective labels for consumers.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for greater traceability of fishery products. studies have shown that fishery products sold on union markets, including in the restaurants of the european parliament and the commission, are often incorrectly labelled. the resolution stresses the need for european eco-labelling for fishery and aquaculture products. i am voting for this text which defends the quality of products sold to consumers and better fishing practices.
in writing. ‒ this report follows a study by an ngo reporting on mislabelling of fish. that is where the idea of a european label came from, which we cannot support, even though the principle of labelling is a good thing. states should be able to create specific labels which are more restrictive and better protect consumers. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the question concerns labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, following a study by an ngo showing that a third of fish sold in brussels is incorrectly labelled, raising the question of the effectiveness of traceability and labelling. this is in harmony with what we are asking for. but we cannot accept a single european label which would effectively deprive the states of their right to create more stringent labels which would better protect consumers. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, is in line with what we are asking for. but we cannot accept a single european label which would effectively deprive the states of their right to create more stringent labels which would better protect consumers. that is why i abstained in the vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants and retail outlets. while the commission's control plan for 2015 has identified cases of fraud in the labelling of fishery products on the european market, it is essential to strengthen our mechanisms against fraud and the sanctions that suppress it. in this context, i supported this resolution, which calls in particular for consumers to have access to mandatory labelling information and for national anti-fraud controls to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which aims to provide solutions to the many cases of fraud detected in the labelling of fish in the retail sector. it is essential that consumers are able to know the commercial name of the species (as well as its scientific name), the production method and the gear used for fishing, the catch area and finally whether the product has been frozen beforehand. the text therefore provides for measures to increase transparency and traceability of products, such as the implementation of a public database indicating all the trade names for each species or the creation of an external structure that will certify information (voluntarily submitted) related to fishery and aquaculture products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution calling for a reliable european fish labelling policy. several studies have shown that fishery products sold on union markets are often incorrectly labelled. such deception of consumers cannot be tolerated. they should be able to have full confidence in the whole supply chain of fishery products to the union market and it is our duty to protect them against such fraudulent practices. we call on the european commission to assess the benefits and feasibility of a robust eu-wide labelling system and to consider measures to improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products. the labelling must contain comprehensible, verifiable and accurate information to enable the consumer to make an informed choice. such a system would be beneficial for the development of coastal communities as it would highlight the best practices of fishermen as well as the quality of the products. this would also reduce dependence on trade in imported fishery and aquaculture products, thus consolidating the european market.
in writing. ‒ studies by the european commission and non-governmental organisations have identified cases of concern of incorrect fish labelling; i therefore supported this report which calls for consumer confidence in the product they consume to be strengthened and for them to have access to sound and reliable information. more than 70% of fishery and aquaculture products sold on the european market come from imports; in this sense, it is important that they meet the same traceability standards as european products and therefore be fully traceable. a traceability system for all fishery products sold in shops or restaurants in the european union would help prevent fraud and provide consumers with access to sound and reliable information.
in writing. ‒ i joined my colleagues in the committee on fisheries in pushing for the adoption of an oral question and a resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the catering and retail trade. a few months ago, a new scandal broke out over labelling. far less damaging than that of the horse, concerned the fraudulent designation of certain species labelled as more "noble" species. the scandal, however, has revealed the shortcomings in terms of traceability and consumer information. now the labels must indicate the fao zone where the fish was caught. but is it really clear to a consumer that a fish caught in the bay of biscay can come from brittany? in addition, labelling must be a traceability tool. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht, which i think is very important. finally, i would like to see a european eco-label based on criteria which are formulated in a democratic and objective manner.
in writing. ‒ a study by the ngo oceana has revealed cases of mislabelling of fish served in restaurants in brussels, including in the european institutions. about one third of the fish tested were mislabeled. this study shows that the traceability of fishery products is not guaranteed, as there is no reliable labelling. the european eco-labelling system must be kept on a vigilant footing, as it could supplant the labels of the member states. labelling and the creation of labels, with the aim of improving the traceability and quality of products, is in line with what we are asking for. but we cannot accept a single european label which would effectively deprive the states of their right to create more stringent labels which would better protect consumers. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this resolution by the parliament's committee on fisheries concerns the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the catering and retail trade. studies have shown that fishery products on eu markets, in restaurants and even in the canteens of the parliament and the commission are often mislabeled. the labelling policy would improve the recognition of fishermen's best practices and the quality of products sold to consumers, and could enhance traceability and transparency of information for consumers. the union's maritime and fisheries fund is in a position to finance this and could in particular allow for the establishment of an independent structure certifying information on the labels of fishery products. this report, the main provisions of which remain optional, seems to me to be a step in the right direction for fishermen and consumers alike. i voted yes.
(start of the debate off the record) because i am in favour of deeper cooperation with china. here, cooperation is negotiation. the free trade that is the framework of this agreement is simply the balance of power. and the balance of power is not because of china, but because of the rules that the european union has imposed on the rest of the world in terms of free trade. that is why i am against this agreement, but above all i want to denounce the hypocrisy of those who are calling for anti-dumping measures, particularly on chinese steel, when they themselves import steel into europe. i am talking about mr mittal, the great destroyer of the european steel industry. i am making this denunciation on the basis of the facts revealed by the cgt of arcelormittal and florange, and my comrade lionel burriello, head of the cgt. this is all a farce. we must have cooperation with china, an open dialogue that compares the advantages of each country and not the balance of power. you forced them on china and now you're the first to suffer and dare to protest!
in writing. ‒ i opposed the granting of market economy status to china. china is not a market economy and it fulfils only one of the five criteria for this. the granting of such status to china would be catastrophic, potentially bringing the anti-dumping duties down from 44% to around 10%. experts estimate that the eu would lose 90% of its anti-dumping measures and according to the washington-based trade union-affiliated economic policy institute (epi), european production could be reduced by 2% of gross domestic product (gdp) per year. finally, between 1.7 and 3.5 million jobs could be threatened in europe by 2020, including 183,300 to 366,800 in france. a motion for a resolution was tabled by the enf group, calling for china not to be granted that status and for our trade defence mechanisms to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ our vote is a very clear signal to the member states and to the european commission. china must not be granted market economy status. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers were not able to comply with the met/it request. the situation is already critical in some sectors. the most telling example is steel: china, with its massive overcapacity, is flooding the world market with products that it sells at prices below the cost of the raw material. it is a certain idea of europe that is at stake. the workers and consumers will turn their backs even more on the union if it proves incapable of protecting them. more than ever, europe must impose the rules of fair trade in international trade. this debate is not technical, it is highly political. i hope that my colleagues and i will build on this debate to work towards strengthening the european anti-dumping arsenal. this means strengthening trade defence instruments (tdi) to increase the applicable anti-dumping duties, drastically reducing the time taken for investigations and simplifying complaint procedures by opening this possibility to trade union organisations. it is time for europe to stop acting like the idiot of the global village.
in writing. ‒ recognising china as a market economy or changing the methodology would potentially bring down the anti-dumping duties from 44% to around 10%. experts estimate that by granting china market economy status, the eu would be depriving itself of 90% of its anti-dumping measures. according to the washington-based trade union-affiliated economic policy institute (epi), european production could be reduced by 2% of gross domestic product (gdp) per year. between 1.7 and 3.5 million jobs could be threatened in europe by 2020, including 183,300 to 366,800 in france. that is why the enl group has tabled a motion for a resolution, which i naturally voted for.
in writing. ‒ if china obtains market economy status it will be very difficult to fight against chinese distortions of competition. europe is not united, it is a combination of 28 national egos and each one is trying to get his way in the game, so that the chinese can very easily oppose each other, wine against the diesel car. europe needs to be coherent as a matter of urgency. we want to flatter the consumer with a cheaper and cheaper life, but we do not change our tax and social legislation and we are exposed to a transfer of activity which causes mass unemployment. europe has to wake up. the import and export deficit with china was eur 100 billion in 2014. that's how many jobs we've moved. for all these reasons i did not vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ china has been a member of the wto since 2001; the european union's accession protocol then provided for its statute to be revised after a period of 15 years, and now we have reached that date. however, the fact that it is not a market economy allows the eu to impose anti-dumping measures on it, which is crucial when it is known that 80% of eu imports that were subject to dumping or subsidy investigations by the commission came from china. granting china market economy status would jeopardise between 1.7 and 3.5 million jobs in europe by 2020, including 183,000 to 366,000 in france, particularly in the steel sector.
in writing. ‒ regarding the question of whether or not to grant china market economy status, i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by our group enl and refusing to grant this status and i abstained on the other resolutions which do not take clear positions on the subject. for example, the joint resolution of the epp, socialist, ecr, alde and green groups merely pushes back the deadline by asking, among other things, that this issue be discussed only at a forthcoming eu-china summit, which would preclude the member states from having their own say on the subject. the resolution also recalls that china is the union's second largest trading partner and the union is china's largest trading partner, with trade well in excess of eur 1 billion per day. the european union is also concerned about the situation in the middle east, and we therefore recognise the importance of trade with this sovereign country, but we stress that china does not meet the five criteria established by the union to define countries recognised as having a market economy. finally, china's overcapacity is already having major social, economic and environmental consequences in the union, and we hope that the commission will take into account the concerns expressed by the industrial sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which opposes china's market economy status. i am firmly opposed to china's being granted the status of a market economy. the country does not meet the five criteria of a market economy as defined by the world trade organization. there is therefore no reason for it to be granted that status. we must also ensure that our companies compete fairly internationally. if china uses unfair methods to drive down prices, we must respond with appropriate trade defence instruments. this resolution will make it possible to make the voice of the european parliament heard in the european council of ministers which will decide on the next steps.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on how to deal with chinese dumped imports on the european market. the message of this resolution is clear: china cannot yet be granted market economy status. this status would force the eu to abandon its trade defence instruments against china, which is still far from meeting the required criteria. indeed, chinese export subsidies for certain products on the one hand, and unjustified restrictions on the export of raw materials on the other hand, seriously destabilise trade between the eu and china. furthermore, the poor protection of intellectual property rights in china encourages large-scale counterfeiting and does not meet the standards expected of a market economy. the european commission will have to decide on whether to grant china market economy status by 11 december, when certain provisions of the protocol on china's accession to the wto expire. i hope that it will follow the recommendations of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the european parliament's position on the granting of market economy status to the people's republic of china, the decision on which will have to be taken by december 2016. the people's republic of china has been a member of the world trade organisation (wto) for 15 years and is seeking to obtain this status, which would allow it to reduce significantly the anti-dumping measures against it. i voted with a large majority of my colleagues against the granting of this status, as china does not currently meet the five criteria established by the wto to comply with market economy status. i also believe that the union must reform its trade defence instruments to better protect european companies from external competition and to ensure fair trade rules. at present, it is clear that granting china market economy status would result in unfair competition between chinese companies and european ones. for these reasons i opposed the granting of such status and voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. i supported this resolution which supports the idea that china is not a market economy because it does not meet the five european criteria for obtaining this status. therefore, its exports to the eu should be treated in a 'non-standard' manner for the purpose of the dumping and subsidisation investigations on imports from china in order to establish price comparability. i also want to protect the european economy and industry by voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, almost unanimously, considered that china, which had clearly not become a market economy, could not in any case claim to benefit from this status. europe must be able to continue to impose deterrent anti-dumping duties and our producers must feel that they are genuinely protected against unfair trade behaviour by china. europe must also strengthen its trade defence instruments and develop a genuine european industrial strategy geared to the areas of the future. finally, on this highly political issue, europe will have to speak with one voice.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on china's market economy status must be a clear message to national governments and the european commission. i would like to stress, as many others have done, that china does not meet the european criteria for a market economy and therefore cannot claim that status. i would like to remind you of the danger of dumping that our economy and european workers face if we do not put in place effective trade defence mechanisms. we must also take account of the refusal of our main trading partners, the united states, canada and japan, to grant china market economy status. i therefore hope that the european union will be consistent with its partners in not granting this status to china either. finally, i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a strong signal to the member states that it is now imperative to take a firm stand, lest we sacrifice the european union's economy.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to granting china market economy status which would prevent the european commission from imposing anti-dumping measures on chinese products. china remains a heavily subsidised economy which keeps sales prices artificially low, combined with a social and environmental decline which the european union cannot support. in addition, such a decision would be disastrous for certain sectors of activity. it is estimated that between 1.7 and 3.5 million jobs in europe are at risk. the situation is already critical in some sectors, particularly steel. instead of embarking headlong on ever-deeper liberalisation, the commission must make proposals to strengthen and protect its own market. it must work to strengthen the european anti-dumping arsenal. this means strengthening trade defence instruments (tdi) to increase the applicable anti-dumping duties, drastically reducing the time taken for investigations and simplifying complaint procedures by opening this possibility to trade union organisations.
in writing. ‒ china must be denied market economy status, or we will have to give up on effectively combating dumping by that economy. i have, however, abstained on this text because it is very vague on a subject which is of great importance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the new directive.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the text is too vague, it calls for china's market economy status to be discussed at a forthcoming eu-china summit.
in writing. china is a very great and ancient nation, which has made remarkable economic progress since it allowed the development of individual enterprise, and abandoned the absurd planning of the mao-tse-toung era. but can it be called a market economy if it meets only one of the five criteria defined by the european union? its economy remains largely administered and subsidised. the artificial use of the exchange rate of its currency remains a commercial weapon. but brussels-based europe is hesitant, despite the millions of jobs at stake and the survival of entire industrial sectors. one country fears for its own exports, another for promises of investment, another for the vitality of its ports. international trade can only develop in a certain equality. china knows this better than anyone, since it was a victim, at the time of the unequal treaties, of western economic imperialism, especially anglo-saxon, and the open door policy. achieving this equity requires that the social protection, wage levels, working conditions and trade union freedoms of chinese workers are brought closer to ours. industrial property must also be guaranteed and protected against any unfair counterfeiting. it's not yet. we hope that we will make progress along this road.
in writing. ‒ state domination, price fixing, intentional overproduction, currency manipulation... all these elements show us that 15 years after its accession to the world trade organization, china is objectively not a market economy. it is not necessary to recall that three quarters of the european anti-dumping measures concern china. that the eu has imposed 54 punitive taxes on chinese state-subsidized products sold below cost? the choice the union must make is therefore not a technical one, but a genuinely political one, and it leads us to reflect on the future of our trade policy. to grant china this status is to condemn many european industries already weakened by unfair competition. to grant this status is to deprive us of fair anti-dumping measures which are in response to illegal practices under international trade law. granting this status is finally yielding to chinese pressure and admitting a great political weakness. i therefore voted with conviction in favour of this resolution, with the aim of sending a strong signal to member states to modernise our trade defence instruments and to stop fearing possible economic retaliation from china.
in writing. china believes that under the wto accession protocol, europe must recognize china's market economy status before the end of 2016. but the position of the french socialists is not ambiguous. as our vote has shown, this request is not relevant. the chinese state plays a considerable role in its economy, in particular through subsidies. it therefore has massive overcapacities which make it capable of flooding the world market with its products. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers. the trade defenses of europe would be greatly weakened, which would be dramatic for european industry. in total, between 1.7 and 3.5 million jobs in europe would be threatened and a potential fall in european gdp of 2 to 3% would be expected. from a legislative point of view, china does not meet four of the five criteria for the definition of a market economy set out by the eu. refusing china this status is also defending european citizens, defending workers, consumers who must be able to have confidence in europe.
in writing. ‒ china believes that it is entitled to receive market economy status automatically and above all not to be subject to high anti-dumping duties. our group has proposed a resolution calling for china not to be granted market economy status and for our trade defence mechanisms to be strengthened. i therefore abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution which recalls that china does not meet the european criteria for obtaining market economy status, and therefore the eu should not recognise this status for china. thousands of jobs are at stake. the eu must take a firm stand against unfair competition from china in certain sectors such as steel.
‒ i abstained on the resolution on china's market economy status. china has been a member of the wto since 2001. it is rightly not considered a market economy. this allows the eu to impose very strong but logical anti-dumping measures on a chinese industry, especially when a chinese industrial sector exports its surplus below cost. 80% of eu imports that were subject to dumping or subsidisation investigations by the european commission came from china. the chinese economy has huge overcapacities, particularly in commodity sectors such as steel, due to the sharp slowdown in some chinese domestic markets over the past two years. china must be denied market economy status, otherwise we will no longer have effective anti-dumping instruments, as the eln group has clearly stated in its own resolution.
in writing. ‒ market economy status is composed of five criteria ranging from the independence of markets from the state to the existence of transparent and non-discriminatory company law. china, which has been a member of the wto since 2001, meets only one of the criteria. since china has not been granted market economy status, the eu can severely restrict chinese exports by applying anti-dumping measures. indeed, china has such overcapacity that it is trying to channel its excess stocks to other domestic markets. it is actively working to obtain this recognition from the eu, which will allow it to invade our markets with its low-cost products. i agree with our group's proposal to deny china market economy status and to strengthen our trade defence mechanisms. i voted for this resolution. i abstained on the joint resolution, the text of the gue, greens, s&d and ppe groups. i voted against the alde and ecr.
in writing. ‒ currently, according to european legislation, china is not a market economy because it does not meet four of the five criteria for definition. however, china, which is already flooding the world market with steel - sometimes selling it at prices below its production costs - is aspiring to this status. the granting of the status to china would prevent the european union from resorting to the imposition of anti-dumping duties and would necessarily cause considerable economic and social damage in europe. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution, which explicitly asks the commission not to grant china market economy status because beijing does not meet the criteria for such status. in these times of economic crisis and global competitive pressure, it is our duty to work on strengthening the eu's anti-dumping arsenal in order to protect our economy from the aggressive policies of third countries.
in writing. - i abstained on the joint resolution. since 2001, china has been a member of the world trade organisation but is not considered a market economy. this allows the eu to impose very high anti-dumping measures on it. an effective trade defence must be put in place quickly as there is a legal risk that china will attack the eu in the wto to prevent the imposition of significant anti-dumping duties. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, which has not provided any evidence that the anti-dumping measures in force are in breach of the anti-dumping measures in force. between 1.7 and 3.5 million jobs could be threatened in europe by 2020, including 183,300 to 366,800 in france; that is why we are going to table a resolution calling for china not to be granted market economy status and for our trade defence mechanisms to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has been able to make a strong and unambiguous voice heard by voting, by a very large majority (more than 500 votes in favour), a resolution opposing the granting of market economy status to china. this status, which beijing is so eager to have (and which it believes it should receive automatically by the end of 2016), would prevent the eu from using many of the anti-dumping instruments it currently uses to counter unfair chinese competition, which is already causing considerable social damage. millions of jobs in steel, ceramics, chemicals, electronics and toys are directly or indirectly threatened. the european parliament, under the decisive impulse of the socialists and democrats, voted a resolution whose content is fully in line with the urgency. first, by advocating the maintenance of a 'non-standard methodology', we made a clear call to the european commission to join forces with our main trading partners (usa, japan, india, etc.) to continue to protect itself against chinese dumping. finally, we have reiterated our call to national governments to agree to the strengthening of our anti-dumping arsenal. without this, whole sections of our industry are doomed to disappear.
in writing. ‒ china believes it can immediately receive market economy status and escape heavy anti-dumping measures. this is despite the fact that its overproduction of steel is threatening the steel industry in particular. according to the trade commissioner, it has only one of the five characteristics of a market economy. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers were not in a position to comply with the undertaking. the enl tabled a motion for a resolution against. i therefore voted in favour of the enl motion for a resolution denying china such status and for measures to strengthen our trade defence mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ china has been a member of the wto since 2001. it is not considered a market economy. this allows the eu to impose very strong but logical anti-dumping measures on a chinese industry, especially when a chinese industrial sector exports its surplus below cost. however, the clause defining the status of the chinese economy in the wto accession protocol expires at the end of 2016, which means that the chinese economy could be recognised as a market economy, which would deprive the eu of almost all of its anti-dumping measures. this mistake by world and european leaders would have catastrophic consequences for european economies in general, and french economies in particular. the chinese economy remains heavily subsidised by the state, and social protection and wage levels are paltry compared with those in european countries. it is therefore clear that the patriotic elected officials are very firmly opposed to the recognition of china's market economy status.
in writing. ‒ the us government has indicated that it will not grant china market economy status. the met assessment or the change in methodology would potentially reduce the anti-dumping duties from 44% to around 10%. experts estimate that by granting china market economy status, the eu would thus lose 90% of its anti-dumping measures. that is why i abstained from voting on the joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the granting of market economy status to china. the text reiterates in very clear terms that china, whose economy is largely state-run, is engaged in sustained dumping that is damaging to european products, and does not yet meet the criteria of a market economy, which, as things stand, disqualifies it from obtaining the status. according to several studies, granting china market economy status would reduce eu gdp by 2% and threaten between 1.5 and 4 million european jobs. it would also limit europe's power to punish forms of dumping by china. that is why i am firmly against it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of globalisation and fair competition, provided that all states apply the same rules. it is in this spirit that i voted for this resolution. i even spoke in this house to remind the house that it is impossible today to grant china the status of a market economy. why would you do that? simply because china does not meet the five precise european criteria for defining a market economy. the european commission will decide on 11 december whether or not to grant china such status. however, we must already think about revising and modernising our trade defence instruments (idc) or encouraging the introduction of an additional tax on chinese dumped products to finance a fund to support our companies which could possibly be the victims of retaliatory measures. china is a major trading partner of the european union. it is therefore essential to strengthen our necessary solidarity on this issue with the united states and japan, which are, along with europe, china's two other main partners. our approach to it must be diplomatic, technical, but above all pragmatic.
in writing. ‒ parliament's resolution expresses, in particular to the council and the commission, its refusal to grant china market economy status. while, according to the european commission's criteria, china still cannot claim this status, such a decision would limit the union's already limited (thanks to the council!) capacity to defend itself on trade. the issue is vital for the european economy: strategic industrial sectors would be even more at risk, such as steel or chemicals, and in the long term it is estimated that this grant to china would lead to a 25 to 50% increase in chinese imports, a reduction of 1 to 2% of european gdp and a loss of 1.7 to 3.5 million jobs. this is not protectionism, quite the contrary. we have always sought to develop a close and strengthened partnership with china. but this can only be done in the context of fair competition and in this respect the transformation of china into a genuine market economy is essential; this is something that, despite some progress in the last 15 years in terms of opening up, china has not yet completed.
in writing. ‒ in the resolution adopted today, the european parliament considers that china cannot be granted market economy status. the european union will have to decide by 11 december. environmentalists say china is not a market economy, so europe has no reason to treat it as such as long as it does not meet the required criteria. on the contrary, we must preserve all the tools that allow for fair and fair competition, preserving european industry and employment. we must go even further, by strengthening our trade defence tools, which have proved ineffective in recent years. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to obtain sufficient quantities of the product concerned from the union producers. to reverse this trend, europe needs to develop a genuine trade diplomacy.
in writing. ‒ in 2001, china signed a protocol of accession to the wto which provided for a transitional period for its accession, allowing the european union to apply a specific method of dumping calculation. at the end of 2016, this transitional period could end and china believes that the european union should automatically recognize its market economy status. this would mean that the union would have to abandon the anti-dumping instruments at its disposal today to protect itself from unfair chinese competition. the recognition of china's market economy status could then lead to a serious crisis for european industry, with many job losses. however, china is not a market economy because it still does not meet the five criteria set by the union. it is therefore essential that the union retain its means of action against china, and this is precisely the call which parliament is making in this resolution. so i supported her.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the question of granting china market economy status. china still does not currently meet the five criteria required by the eu to be able to claim market economy status and it is in this sense that i refuse to consider the granting of market economy status to china as automatic. such a grant would have catastrophic consequences for employment and businesses in europe. we must continue to fight against all forms of unfair competition and the text also stresses the imminent need for a reform of the european union's trade defence instruments, a modernisation which we have been calling for for many years. in particular, it is recalled that 56 of the 73 anti-dumping measures currently in force in the union apply to imports from china. despite the expiry of certain provisions of the protocol of accession of china to the wto, we must continue to be able to fight effectively against chinese dumping and develop our jobs and businesses in europe.
in writing. ‒ china has been a member of the wto since 2001. it is not considered a market economy. this allows the eu to impose very strong but logical anti-dumping measures on a chinese industry, particularly when a chinese industrial sector exports its surplus below cost. 80% of eu imports that were investigated by the european commission for dumping or subsidisation came from china. the chinese economy has huge overcapacities, particularly in commodity sectors such as steel, due to the sharp slowdown in some chinese domestic markets over the past two years. china must be denied the status of a market economy, otherwise we will no longer have effective anti-dumping instruments. there is a legal risk that even if china is denied market economy status, it could still attack the eu at the wto and eventually prevent it from imposing meaningful but logical anti-dumping duties. the enf group proposed a resolution to ask that china not be granted market economy status and that we strengthen our trade defence mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the proposed resolution calls in particular on the commission to produce a communication ahead of the united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development in september 2016, which will be held at the un with all member countries. these are essentially measures based on prohibitions, regulations, taxes and environmental incentives. since the constraints apply only to europeans and not to the chinese or the americans, there is no reason to vote in favour. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, proposed by most political groups, deals with the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals to be achieved. the text proposes measures based on prohibitions, regulations, taxation, environmental incentives, often with few constraints: nothing is said about countries which refuse to submit to such constraints, such as the united states or china. similarly, the fact that the amount of waste and miscellaneous releases (soil erosion, carbon dioxide emissions, etc.) increased by 28% in the united states between 1975 and 1996 is not mentioned, nor is the crucial notion of natural resource limits. the resolution also calls for the european sustainable development strategy to be the subject of a broad consultation involving national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, which seems to be a no-brainer. the measures proposed in this resolution are insufficient and poorly targeted; so i voted against it.
in writing. - if the fight against poverty is a legitimate objective, i had to vote against this resolution which uses the most laudable principles (fight against poverty, sustainable development) as a trojan horse to attack once again the sovereignty of states. the resolution calls for 'the development of a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of internal and external policies'. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european social fund. if international coordination is necessary to achieve poverty reduction objectives, it must be done in concert by the legitimate representatives of each country, or, even more efficiently, in the framework of bilateral agreements with the countries most concerned, which would allow for a truly targeted, and therefore concrete, approach. in addition, as has been emphasized in several amendments, the union is right to want to reduce poverty even though it itself creates situations of great precariousness, in particular as a result of free trade agreements which are, more often than not, made to the detriment of the interests of the member states and their peoples.
in writing. ‒ this resolution underlines the commitment of the 2030 agenda to sustainable development, which aims to eradicate poverty and redefine and modernise development strategies. meps stress the importance of consulting all stakeholders, including national parliaments and local authorities, in the process of drawing up the new eu sustainable development strategy. considering that it is essential to establish close cooperation between all stakeholders at the level of the european union and the united nations in order to assess the achievement of the sustainable development goals and to coordinate joint policies and programmes, i supported this resolution.
in writing. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development was adopted on 25 september 2015 by the united nations. it has 17 sustainable development goals. i supported this resolution on monitoring and progress in implementing these objectives because it encourages the establishment of a comprehensive strategy up to 2030, including internal and external policies.
in writing. ‒ in 2000, the un member states committed themselves to 15 years to achieve the "millennium development goals" to eliminate extreme poverty and hunger in the world and to ensure primary education for all. one year after the deadline, although we are still far from the objectives, it is clear that the international community has made significant progress. global poverty has been reduced, access to safe water has been expanded, and the number of children in primary school has increased. a new international framework for development policies must now be developed. for the european union, the world's largest provider of development aid, it is important to pursue an even more ambitious development strategy, and to focus on the issues that have emerged or intensified over the decade, such as the increase in inequalities and the challenges of climate change.
in writing. ‒ this text on the 2030 agenda and the objectives to be achieved in terms of sustainable development only highlights the inability of conferences, summits and meetings on this subject to change the concrete situation. prohibitions, regulations, taxes, environmental incentives have obviously not prevented man from consuming the stocks that the planet had built up over millions of years. the resolution requires countries to report on the 2030 agenda, including on the basis of indicators related to the sustainable development goals. in view of the inadequacies and shortcomings of this approach, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i vote against: these are generally measures based on prohibitions, regulations, taxation, environmental incentives, with unfortunately very few constraints.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it represents a new step in the european union's commitment to sustainable development. it provides the necessary clarification of responsibilities but also encourages the development of new synergies between the european institutions in favour of the environment. these measures are the basis for a more effective and coordinated programme to achieve the ambitious targets set for 2030.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls in particular for the european strategy for sustainable development to be the subject of a broad consultation involving national parliaments, local authorities and civil society. i support that, which is why i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls in particular for the european union to have a united position at the next un high-level political forum on sustainable development and to strengthen policy coherence for development.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the follow-up and progress of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals. the house also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carriage of goods by road. it is therefore disturbing to talk about sustainable development in these conditions. the text refers to the countless summits, texts, ranging from the un to the various gas factories of the european institutions. all the measures advocated, while they may be beneficial, have obviously not solved the problems so far, especially since countries such as the united states and china are not included.
in writing. - i voted against this text. it is drawn up by the majority of the political groups in parliament (epp, s&d, ecr, alde, efdd, gue) and aims to bring european citizens closer to the sustainable development objectives set out in agenda 2030. it called on the commission to develop a communication on the hlpf (high level political forum on sustainable development) to be held in september 2016. the text also aims to organise a broad consultation involving all civil society actors. the proposals are therefore a sham and do not address urgent situations such as the health crisis in greece, which is experiencing a sharp rise in infant mortality.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this motion for a resolution is the initiative of the majority of the political groups in the european parliament. it aims to establish objectives in terms of sustainable development (economic development compatible with respect for the environment) for the needs of the 2030 agenda. this document will define the multiannual development strategy of the european union. the resolution calls on the commission to produce a comprehensive document on the progress made by 22 states, including four member states, in protecting the environment. this communication will be used at the un forum on sustainable development, scheduled for september 2016. we are not opposed to the necessary protection of the environment. however, the very notion of sustainable development is based on the idea of a 'world government' which we reject. we also have doubts about the effectiveness of measures taken by supranational bodies in the field of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the un has been working since september on renewed sustainable development goals, a roadmap for the next 15 years, through specific common development indicators. a meeting in july will discuss the progress of the work. while the commission and the council are discussing it, the european parliament has still not been consulted, a symbol of the low regard accorded to democracy in brussels. the resolution calls for the commission's proposal for an eu position on this work to be made public and for parliament to be duly consulted and involved. the text supports the objectives of eradicating poverty. it highlights the remarks of un experts on the need for resources in national statistical offices. otherwise, how can we establish reliable indicators of development? our concerns about tafta and other treaties for multinationals are irreconcilable with these objectives. they were therefore rejected. the text is very flawed, particularly on the paris agreement on climate change, and tends to defend the questionable idea of a necessary common eu position at the un, disregarding the sovereignty of states. i am voting in favour of the resolution to show my support for the work of the un.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is based on the concept of sustainable development. this unreasonable notion attempts to unite ecology with economic interests, with the practical inertia inherent in it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls in particular on the commission to produce a communication ahead of the sustainable development forum, scheduled for september 2016, to be held at the un with all member states. in the main, these measures are based on prohibitions, regulations, taxation and environmental incentives, with, unfortunately, very often little constraint. all these measures, while beneficial, have obviously not prevented the destruction of the planet and its resources, since it is also known that countries, such as the united states and china, are not affected by these measures. although we can only agree with the alarming observation made about the state of the planet and the plundering of resources by the industrial economy and the dogma of infinite growth, it is not desirable to support this resolution insofar as it ends up endorsing the hypocrisy of the world's leaders on these issues.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the european sustainable development strategy to be the subject of a broad consultation involving national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, which seems to be a no-brainer. the most interesting amendment, therefore, comes from the gue and concerns concern about the threat of ttip, ceta, tisa. but as is often the case, support for this political group seems out of place. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the state of play of the 2030 agenda, which puts sustainable development and the fight against climate change in a common framework for both developed and developing countries. the resolution calls in particular on the european union to negotiate a united position in view of the forthcoming united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development (unhcp). it also calls for greater coherence in development policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the european union to have a common and coherent position at the un high level political forum in july. the eu's participation in this high level political forum is crucial for the review of the implementation of the sustainable development goals adopted by the united nations in september 2015 (the 2030 agenda). it should also be noted that in this resolution the european parliament calls on the european commission and the eeas to come forward with concrete proposals on how to integrate policy coherence for development more effectively in the implementation of the 2030 agenda. it is a political priority for me to ensure the coherence of the actions of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's role is to monitor the work of the european institutions and to participate in the development of their guidelines. in the context of the achievement of the objectives of the united nations 2030 agenda, i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the european commission to propose a comprehensive sustainable development strategy with a detailed timetable up to 2030 and also asking it to present a communication on the monitoring and review of this 2030 agenda, in order to understand the structure of its implementation at the level of the european union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up and progress of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals. this resolution reflects the position of the european parliament in view of the united nations high level political forum on sustainable development (unhcp) to be held in july 2016. the purpose of this forum is to assess needs and adopt the roadmaps needed to implement the 2030 agenda. in this context, the commission should propose a comprehensive sustainable development strategy and present a communication on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda. it will also be necessary to ensure that the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) reflects the commitments made by the union in agenda 2030. presenting a common and coherent position on sustainable development is important for the credibility of the european union. it should also effectively integrate policy coherence, in particular through regular dialogue with all stakeholders to ensure effective cooperation between the institutions. finally, there is a need to increase the democratic control of the european parliament in the implementation of agenda 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the union to have a united position at the next un high level political forum on sustainable development and to strengthen policy coherence for development. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals constitute a new international commitment to poverty eradication and new strategies for development policies. the aim is to emphasize the need to make development policies coherent with each other, both at european level and at international level, with the united nations, for example, and all other donors. i supported this text because it also recalls the need for the union to ensure that the review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) is an opportunity to take account of its commitments in the 2030 agenda.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, considering that optional labelling schemes only generate confusion (recital l), calls for mandatory indication of origin in a very broad way. there is a small caveat: in the light of this resolution, the draft national provision on indication of origin, which france recently notified to the commission and the member states, in accordance with the procedure established by regulation no 1169/2011, could well be considered as a 'best practice' to be shared, or even extended to the whole internal market through a specific implementing act adopted by the commission. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution following an oral question on the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foodstuffs. the text calls for the mandatory indication of origin to be extended to a very large extent, given that optional labelling schemes only generate confusion. i strongly support these measures which help to inform european consumers more precisely. transparency about the country of origin or place of provenance of a foodstuff is a right for all citizens. we also recall that 'origin' cannot be reduced to a simple question of costs for enterprises, but must on the contrary be a lever in favour of the primary sector in particular. it is an instrument which can encourage an agricultural sector already badly affected by the european crisis which our farmers are suffering in france and elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, considering that optional labelling only creates confusion, calls for the mandatory indication of origin of certain food products to be extended. i voted in favour of this resolution which improves tracing.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the commission to follow up on its obligations to implement the standards, in accordance with article 26 (5) of regulation no 1169/2011 of 25 october 2011. the resolution calls for the mandatory indication of origin to be extended to a very large extent, as voluntary labelling schemes only create confusion. i voted in favour of this measure, which is aimed at extending the obligation to trace products to all consumers and thus ensuring the protection of consumers as well as smes who are committed to the quality of their products.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution which encourages the member states of the european union to make it compulsory to indicate the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foodstuffs, such as dairy products and meat. in the past, my country has always fought for the respect and protection of the indication of origin of its own products in international trade - i am thinking in particular of our wines, our champagne and our cheeses - and it is only logical to extend this protection to other products and to all the countries of the union. such protection not only protects the interests of the industries of the member states but also contributes to the necessary protection of consumers and, in the case of foodstuffs, to the welfare of animals.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which calls for the country of origin indication for certain foodstuffs to be made compulsory, given the inefficiency of optional labelling. i believe that this is a necessary measure to protect the food security of the citizens of the member states. in particular, regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 gives member states the right, depending on local practice and the circumstances, to have non-prepacked food regulations. respect for the traditions and sovereignty of the european nations, but also the guarantee of the protection of this food safety standard, even in the event that ttip is implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin on dairy products, meat and processed meat. i think it is essential that consumers are fully informed about what is on their plates. transparency throughout the food chain is an absolute necessity. strict labelling of dairy products, meat and processed meat should be made compulsory in order to improve food traceability. we must learn the lessons of the horse meat scandal. the resolution calls on the commission to draw up a proposal to make the country of origin labelling of certain foodstuffs compulsory.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to respond to the various reports published by the european commission on the issue of labelling in relation to regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 and the various resolutions adopted by the european parliament, the latest of which was dated 11 february 2015. this resolution, unlike the 2015 resolution, does not only cover meat used in processed foods, but also milk for consumption and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products and other types of meat. it also mentions eggs and egg products. the resolution calls for the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of these foodstuffs. it therefore calls on the european commission to draw up legislative proposals in these areas. although i am not opposed in principle to mandatory labelling, i believe that it poses real challenges in terms of means, control, cost and implementation. in addition, in terms of international trade, such a measure could hinder our products for export, even though it could promote consumer information, traceability and citizen consumption in relation to imported products. considering all the evidence, i abstained.
in writing. in line with the expectations of french consumers and farmers, and taking into account the economic feasibility of such a measure, i voted in favour of this resolution which should allow for better traceability of dairy products, meat and processed meat.
in writing. ‒ the demands of european consumers for food labelling are clear and unambiguous. according to a 2013 commission report, more than 90% of europeans believe that mandatory labelling should be applied to processed products. 88% of them think it is necessary for meat, and 84% for milk. the introduction of such a measure would be a major step forward, both in terms of transparency in the food chain and consumer information. this could help to avoid food fraud scandals, such as the one involving horse meat in 2013. the new resolution, which follows a series of texts adopted by parliament on mandatory labelling, should encourage the european commission to make a legislative proposal on this matter as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am afraid that the mere use of voluntary indication of the origin of products creates two categories of consumers: those who will have the choice of the product they want and those who will not. so we have to reconcile consumers with their food after the various food crises we have experienced. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the compulsory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foodstuffs. farmers and processors already have an obligation to trace. i therefore want to strike a balance between the interests of consumers and the competitiveness of our businesses. it seems to me that a mandatory common european framework would be less distortive than a voluntary one.
in writing. ‒ this text calls on the commission to respect its obligations to implement the standards. the resolution calls for the mandatory indication of origin to be extended to a very large extent, since optional labelling schemes only create confusion. i voted for this text which defends traceability, particularly in relation to processed food, and stresses the consumer's interest in it. it also stresses the commission's overestimation of the cost of traceability.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the resolution calls for the mandatory indication of origin to be very broad.
in writing. - everyone wants to know what they eat and where it comes from. i'll go first it's not even politics anymore, it's common sense. that is why i have always supported the compulsory indication of the country of origin in this house. today's resolution calls for this to be compulsory for all meat and milk, including when these products are used as ingredients in food. i would have liked to have added the slaughter methods, but i am in full support of this proposal as it stands. opponents of this measure argue that it would lead to additional costs for the agri-food sector, which is far from being confirmed by studies, let alone by reality, where voluntary schemes exist. my country is also preparing to set up an experiment in this field. it is true that labelling is not a guarantee against fraud and cannot replace necessary checks. but it is a question of informing the consumer while leaving him, as far as his financial means allow him, the freedom to choose. perhaps this is what is frightening: that this free choice may lead systematically and massively to a national and local preference, which would de facto call into question the dreams that some people have of a totally globalised agricultural market.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the commission to follow up on its obligations to implement the standards. i am of course in favour of compulsory indication of origin for certain foodstuffs, which is why i naturally voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ as in a previous vote in february 2015, i chose to abstain on the mandatory indication of the country of origin for processed meat products as well as dairy products. while i am in favour of greater transparency, i question the feasibility of this measure and in particular the additional costs that this obligation could represent for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain foodstuffs. the resolution, considering that optional labelling schemes only create confusion, calls for mandatory indication of origin in a very broad way. i am pleased to note that this relevant text has not been distorted by amendments from the epp. i would remind you that 'origin' cannot be reduced to a simple question of costs for businesses, but must instead be a lever for the primary sector in particular. it is an instrument which can encourage an agricultural sector already badly affected by the european crisis, which is affecting our farmers in france and elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ the text encourages the commission to exercise stricter management, monitoring and enforcement of the mandatory standards. it also favours mandatory labelling schemes to indicate the origin of products. this text is common sense. i have personally defended this subject on many occasions in the committee on agriculture and rural development. so i supported it by voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this resolution calls on the commission to monitor its obligations to implement the standards and sets out a broad scope for the obligation to indicate the country of origin or place of provenance of foodstuffs, which we support. it should be noted that the draft national provision on indication of origin notified by france to the commission and the member states could well be considered as a 'best practice' to be shared, or even extended to the whole internal market by a specific implementing act adopted by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today adopted by a large majority yet another resolution calling on the european commission to speed up the revision of the consumer information regulation to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat and milk used as ingredients in prepared dishes. three years after the food and health scandal of 'horse lasagna', the european commission is still unable to give a positive answer to 70% of european consumers who are calling for this information to be compulsory. the european commission objects to this by claiming that the cost of the new system would be 20% to 50% higher than the current price. these figures are more than exaggerated. the mandatory traceability system for fresh meat is working and can easily be extended to meat in prepared dishes. all studies show that such traceability and transparency would not be costly. the commission must stop its false pretenses and delaying manoeuvres: it is time for action. i welcome the experimental approach taken by the french government and we must call on the european commission to extend this scheme to all the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament reaffirms its call for the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat in processed food. it also requires it for meat other than beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultrymeat and for milk. according to various surveys, nearly 85% of eu citizens believe that 'it is necessary to indicate the origin of meat and milk'. the resolution also regrets that the commission is holding back this process by arguing that the additional costs of labelling are borne by the consumer. food safety is priceless and the various scandals linked to traceability problems (spanghero and horse lasagna, for example) demonstrate the urgency of action. i vote for
in writing. ‒ for the good traceability of foodstuffs, the resolution calls on the commission to give full weight to the rule of compulsory implementation of standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of foodstuffs is not subject to restrictions. the aim was to extend the mandatory labelling to a large extent. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution considers that the optional labelling schemes for the place of origin of foodstuffs covered by such an obligation are confusing and calls for the mandatory indication of origin to be extended. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ in the light of this resolution, the draft national provision on indication of origin, which france recently notified to the commission and the member states in accordance with the procedure established by regulation no 1169/2011, could well be considered as a 'best practice' to be shared, or even extended to the whole internal market through a specific implementing act adopted by the commission. moreover, in the plenary vote, the epp amendments were rejected, so that the balance of this positive text was not upset, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i abstained on that resolution. the commission has also proposed that the labelling of foodstuffs be extended to include processed products, which is a legitimate demand of some consumers, but is very difficult to implement in practice and may lead to an increase in administrative burdens for producers, which would pass on the cost to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in favour of country of origin labelling, particularly for meat, in particular to avoid the recurrence of new scandals, such as those linked to horse meat or other cases of food fraud. the text is balanced in that it responds to strong consumer demand and takes account of the problems associated with the risk of increased costs and administrative burden for businesses having to apply the legislation.
in writing. ‒ meps had already called on the commission in february 2015 to adopt rules to make it mandatory to indicate the origin of meat in processed foods. it is may 2016 and jean-claude juncker and his team have still not moved. worse, health commissioner andriukaitis reiterated that the commission would do nothing about mandatory labelling. i am disappointed that the amendment by the environmentalists calling for animal-derived foods to be labelled as containing gmo residues has been rejected. transparency is important for consumers, but the conservative majority rejected this amendment. it also rejected our amendment requiring that the origin of meat be labelled as soon as it exceeds 10% of the composition of a prepared food. this would have involved quiches, lasagnas or ravioli. this vote is a step in the right direction despite the attempts to sabotage the conservatives who tried to pass amendments to remove the reference to 'mandatory' labelling, but failed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution calling on the european commission to come forward with legislative proposals to make the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foodstuffs compulsory. it is time to provide a clear and effective response to french and european consumers who, according to several studies, want to know the origin of the food they consume. the voluntary system is not enough, more than one product in two in france does not indicate the place of origin. the european commission must act to ensure transparency and traceability throughout the food supply chain. that is why i have reiterated my support for mandatory labelling of processed food products to indicate the country of origin or place of provenance of the meat. we also call for the mandatory labelling to be extended to other foodstuffs and propose that labelling for drinking milk and lightly processed dairy products (such as cheese and cream) and lightly processed meat products (such as bacon and sausages) be considered as a matter of priority. this resolution is a strong message that reflects the interest of consumers to be better informed so that they can make informed choices about their food.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european commission to speed up the revision of the regulation on consumer information in order to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat and milk used as ingredients in prepared dishes. while the vast majority of european consumers want this type of information on the products they buy, the commission continues to oppose these transparency measures. it invokes the costs of such arrangements, even though experiments and voluntary mechanisms have shown that effective consumer information can be provided at a lower cost.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the introduction of mandatory country of origin labelling for meat, processed meat, milk and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products. the resolution comes as a commission report shows that 84% of eu citizens believe it is necessary to indicate the origin of milk and 88% consider such labelling necessary for meat. mandatory labelling would help to maintain consumer confidence in food products, in particular french products, which meet high quality criteria, make the food chain more transparent and increase the added value it generates for farmers and the whole sector. i supported this resolution because it allows further reflection on the question of the labelling of meat and milk. however, it is essential to take account of the increase in costs and administrative burdens in order to strike a balance between the interests of our consumers and the competitiveness of our businesses.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the country of origin labelling of certain foodstuffs, such as milk or meat, in processed foods. the stated aim is to ensure transparency in the food chain and to restore consumer confidence, which has been shaken by several scandals, including the horse meat fraud in 2013. in fact, despite the scandals, the european commission still defends labelling on a purely voluntary basis. this approach has shown its limitations and the aim here is to achieve mandatory labelling for so-called 'minor' types of meat (other than beef, pig, sheep, goat and poultry meat, for which mandatory labelling already applies), milk, unprocessed food, single ingredient products and ingredients which constitute more than 50% of a food. the epp has tried in every way to weaken this resolution by using the usual argument of the cost to smes, whereas in my view they will be the first beneficiaries and transparency is in any case a point on which we should not compromise under the pretext of weakening the market. i voted for this resolution and i welcome its adoption by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the application of council directive 2010/18/eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave. the aim here is to assess the implementation of parental leave legislation in the various member states. despite some measures that deserve our support, such as the reduction of administrative barriers to easier access to parental leave, the possibility of extending the scope of parental leave or the special attention to be paid to children with disabilities, this report has many problems of substance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. it should also be noted that this text proposes real interference in family affairs by seeking to remedy the low participation of fathers in parental leave and to increase the employment rate of women substantially, whereas this should be the choice of each family. we believe, on the contrary, that the economic difficulties facing european citizens are not linked to and should not be compared with family life.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text by my colleague marie arena. today, in the european union, workers can take parental leave when a child is born or adopted. however, the conditions for access to this right and the financial compensation vary considerably between member states. it is clear that men and women are not equal when it comes to parental leave. it is essential that member states address this imbalance in order to achieve a true work-life balance for both sexes.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of the best interests of the child, the value of the role of parents, social policies for families, it is in reality the political will to achieve an employment rate of 75% for women that is expressed here. the report states that unemployment and precariousness are the result of economic difficulties. i voted against this biased report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as the committee had recommended in its report. i am surprised, however, that europe is suggested to have any real competence in this area. such an initiative may lead to misunderstandings and frustrations.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to assess the implementation of parental leave legislation in the different member states, in order to ensure 'gender equality' and fairness in the distribution of family tasks between men and women. in concrete terms, the report proposes to simplify the transposition of european legislation, which constitutes a further attack on the sovereignty of the member states and on the principle of subsidiarity. it also interferes with the family and intimate life of couples, bringing economic difficulties and family life into competition. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ it goes without saying that family law, child education and social and family security benefits must remain the responsibility of the member states. i am not, however, opposed to the union's initiative to encourage member states to take measures to promote the taking of parental leave. i believe it is essential to guarantee women the right to work and be mothers. all too often, it should be remembered, economic and occupational pressures cause women to forgo maternity leave. balancing work and life is not easy, as we all know. i would like to remind you, however, that the family is currently under attack from all sides, with the recognition of the gpa, adoptions by homosexual couples and attacks on traditional marriage. the family is the natural and fundamental element of society. we have to protect her. in this sense, encouraging parental leave for educational purposes is a first step. the second would be to establish a genuine parental wage.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to assess the implementation of parental leave legislation. first of all, it should be remembered that the child must live with the mother and the father. this diversity is reflected in the level of social security benefits in the member states. the rapporteur himself acknowledges these differences in social models, but he calls for harmonization, particularly by means of a real infringement of the family and personal life of the insured, since he calls in particular for the individualisation of parental leave and the non-transferability of a significant part of it. i find this stance shocking, particularly because it challenges the freedom of each couple to make their own decisions, and, worse, the freedom of women to decide whether to work or stay at home to raise their children. the real objective of this report is to achieve the targets set by the europe 2020 strategy, which calls for 75% of women in the labour market. women are thus reduced to a mere economic adjustment variable, to the detriment of their true freedom.
in writing. ‒ parental leave is very important in order to enable parents to accompany their children during their youth. it promotes family relationships and child rearing. it also promotes equality between men and women in their roles within the family structure. council directive 2010/18/eu on the implementation of the revised framework agreement on parental leave states that all workers are entitled to four months of parental leave. it is important that all member states comply with the requirements laid down in this directive. member states should also exchange good practice so that the directive fully encourages both parents to take parental leave, not just women, which is the current trend. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the framework agreement on parental leave, tabled by maria arena. it is more necessary than ever to affirm the need to apply common european rules on parental leave. in general, i welcome the extension of the minimum duration of unpaid parental leave from four to at least six months and the introduction of european rules on a minimum of two weeks paternity leave. the differences in parental leave are still too great between the countries of the union. this report is a step in the right direction in terms of conditions for access to this right, in particular by requiring member states to guarantee equal access to parental leave and incentives to encourage fathers to take it. moreover, at a time when financial compensation for parental leave varies considerably, the report calls on member states to review their systems with a view to achieving a level of adequate income replacement that is both decent and incentive.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report concerns the directive implementing the framework agreement on parental leave. it aims to achieve a balance between parental and professional life within the european union. the rapporteur proposes that paternity leave be extended to two weeks in all member states and that parental leave be used flexibly, with both parents being entitled to it under the same conditions. since french legislation already allows for 11 days of parental leave, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ there is a great asymmetry in the implementation of parental leave today. the rights vary from one state to another depending on the sectors of employment public or private and the type of contract. and many eu member states still do not offer the possibility of paternity leave. ensuring a minimum set of european rules and harmonising these rules at european level would allow for greater equity and a better balance between the professional and private lives of men and women across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the arena report on the revised framework agreement on parental leave because it is important to find a better work-life balance for all parents and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market after the birth of the child. it is necessary to adopt common rules on minimum parental leave at eu level. i therefore supported this report in order to make parental leave available to all workers, regardless of the type of employment contract. furthermore, it seems to me that encouraging fathers to take parental leave is a way of strengthening the principle of equality between men and women in employment, which is enshrined in european legislation and defended by the epp group, and of avoiding discrimination against women in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we believe that the economic difficulties faced by european citizens, which lead to unemployment and precariousness, are not linked to and should not be compared with family life.
in writing. ‒ the report by ms arena could have been limited to a few points: the need to further improve the reconciliation between private and professional life, but through non-legislative initiatives and the exchange of good practice; the assertion that social protection is the sole responsibility of the states; the finding that most national legislation on parental leave goes beyond the minimum european requirements, which are therefore not decisive; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. it could have avoided idle ideological considerations and contradictions: recognition of parents' autonomy and full responsibility in their organisation (this is welcome), but wanting to limit this autonomy by binding prescriptions and non-transferability of rights, or aiming for further harmonisation and strengthening the role of the commission. but i voted against this report mainly because it is basically there to promote a high female employment rate: 75% by 2020. first workers, secondarily mothers for the reproduction of the workforce. i believe in the crucial role of women and the family in society, including in their specific and irreplaceable functions, and i support a policy which would give them complete freedom of choice.
in writing. despite the speeches of european leaders in favour of 'fighting all forms of discrimination, including gender-based discrimination', it is clear that in reality we are far from the gender equality that socialists want. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs marie arena, because, although only 2.7% of fathers in europe take parental leave today, it is essential to combat this imbalance which contributes to the economic and social dependence of women and prevents their emancipation. a review of the parental leave directive is therefore essential and should include: a strengthening of incentives such as decent financial compensation for the length of leave, keeping a significant part of parental leave as non-transferable, improving access to affordable childcare services, or increasing the length of parental leave and the period during which it can be used. finally, there is an urgent need to revise the maternity leave directive and adopt a directive establishing a minimum of two weeks of parental leave, at the risk of europe disappointing its citizens again.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure that common european rules on minimum parental leave are better applied throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the framework agreement on parental leave, which does, however, have a number of positive points. i am in favour of the possibility of extending the scope of parental leave (duration, age), of special attention to children with disabilities and of adequate remuneration. the rapporteur says that social security benefits are the exclusive responsibility of the member states, which is a good thing. it is also clear that there is a great disparity in the eu on the issue of leave. however, his observations, although correct, are distorted by a desire for uniformity. this is a further attack on the sovereignty of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity. there is also a desire to intervene in the family life of the french and other europeans.
in writing. ‒ the text focuses on the management of parental leave. under the pretext of gender equality and justice, it pursues an unhealthy policy of standardizing parental leave, erasing the fundamental differences between men and women. this policy of equality is contrary to the family model i advocate. furthermore, the eu has the right to interfere in the married life of european citizens, depriving them of all freedom. if only the proposals to support a maternity policy and measures to support families with a disabled child were retained, the text would be more valuable. i can only oppose it by voting against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report aims to assess the implementation of parental leave legislation in the various member states. we oppose the desire for uniformity which emerges from this text, which aims to ensure gender equality and a fair balance in the distribution of family tasks between men and women, emphasizing the economic contribution that greater participation of women in the labour market would represent. we oppose this affront to the sovereignty of the member states and the disregard for the principle of subsidiarity. we oppose the interference with the family and even the private life of european couples by the individualisation of parental leave and the non-transferability of a significant part of it. although we are in favour of the possibility of extending the scope of parental leave, of special attention to children with disabilities and of adequate remuneration, we dispute that these measures hide a political will to achieve the objectives set by strategy 2020, namely a female employment rate of 75%. we are opposed to economic difficulties upsetting the balance of family life.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 parental leave directive currently in force provides that all workers are entitled to a minimum of four months of unpaid parental leave, of which one month is non-transferable (to the other parent). the report proposes to go further, taking into account the persistent gender pay gap. in fact, since men are paid more (+16.2% on average), it is often women who take this leave. the question of paid leave is therefore of paramount importance. the report advocates, without giving details, an "adequate and decent income that is an incentive". he advocates more generally a better reconciliation between work and private life. he proposed in particular that leave be reduced to a minimum of six months and that atypical contracts such as the zero-hour contract, which was very popular with mrs merkel and mr cameron, be covered. it also proposes to set and extend the age limit for children to be entitled to parental or carer's leave if they are disabled. he's requesting a soft resumption at the same station. the commission also stressed that the commission had not listened to parliament's requests for improvements in maternity and paternity leave. i vote for this request for social harmonization upwards.
in writing. ‒ this report intends, in the name of the disembodied principle of gender equality, to make paternity leave compulsory. the europe 2020 targets need to see the female employment rate reach 75% in order to be achieved. this is what this absurd, liberty-killing framework agreement is all about. it is hypocrisy to claim the best interests of the child as a principle, while the child is secondary. the central objective is economic, and this is not the least of the paradoxes served: it poses a major occupational and economic difficulty if working men have to return home systematically (six months) for each birth. in the end, this report appears to be anti-natalist. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out to ensure gender equality and fairness in the distribution of family tasks between men and women. the report also stresses the economic contribution that greater participation of women in the labour market would bring. while some proposals are laudable, others are an interference with the free choice of families to organise their lives and of member states to legislate. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ references to the best interests of the child, to the value of the role of parents, to social policies for families, in reality hide a dark political purpose: contrary to this report, i consider that the economic difficulties, generating unemployment and precariousness, faced by european citizens, are not linked and should not be put in competition with intra-family life. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to propose new directives on maternity and paternity leave, but also to revise parental leave legislation, in particular as regards its duration, remuneration and transferability. the adoption of a text which revises the legislation in force is welcome, since there are now many differences in the arrangements for parental leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the arena report and in favour of three points which i considered essential and for which i had to remain faithful to french laws in this area. in france, fathers can take paternity leave for 11 consecutive days (18 days for multiple births) within 4 months of the birth of the child, in addition to the 3 days of leave for childbirth. the law on marriage for all of may 18, 2013 allows same-sex marriage. it opened up new rights for marriage, adoption and inheritance. it allows for joint adoption of a child by both spouses or for the spouse's child to be adopted. parental authority is thus shared by both spouses, which gives them access to all parental rights, including parental leave. finally, since january 2015, in order to reduce the professional penalty for mothers, the duration of parental leave for a first child is 6 months maximum for a single parent and 1 year in the case of both parents taking leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which concerns the application of the european directive of 8 march 2010 on parental leave. parental leave is a right and it is important that common rules on minimum leave are applied in a harmonised way throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on parental leave. there are currently disparities in the transposition of the european directive on parental leave in the member states; in some member states, for example, a worker will be less likely to take leave if he is employed under a fixed-term contract. there is also a persistent gender imbalance, with fathers making little use of their parental leave rights. it is therefore necessary to implement measures to strengthen the use of parental leave and to promote effectively a better reconciliation of work and private life. in particular, fathers should be encouraged to make greater use of parental leave, which would help to reduce discrimination against women in the labour market. equal career opportunities for men and women would also help to achieve the 75% employment rate target set in the europe 2020 strategy. finally, i think that the commission should improve and strengthen the provisions on parental leave for parents of children with disabilities or with serious or long-term disability-related illnesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for better implementation of the common rules on minimum parental leave. in 2013, the union adopted a directive on the application of the framework agreement on parental leave. the text calls on the member states to guarantee working parents, particularly fathers, their right to take parental leave. today, only 10 percent of fathers take at least one day of parental leave. the commission is therefore asked to carry out a detailed analysis of the state of application of the directive in the member states, but also to call for the right of both parents, regardless of gender, to be guaranteed. it is essential to remember that the right to parental leave must not be conditioned by the nature of the employment contract.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to assess the implementation of parental leave legislation in the different member states. however, parental leave is interwoven with two other types of leave (maternity and paternity). the three types of leave must therefore be considered together, in a more general scheme of reconciling private and professional life. the report's stated mission is to ensure gender equality and fairness in the distribution of family responsibilities between men and women. the report also stresses the economic contribution that greater participation of women in the labour market would bring. the pretended references to the best interests of the child, to the value of parenting and to social policies for families, in reality hide a political will to achieve the objectives set by strategy 2020, namely an employment rate of 75% for women. we believe, contrary to this report, that the economic difficulties facing european citizens, which lead to unemployment and precariousness, are not linked to and should not be compared with family life. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the application of the parental leave directive, which is one of the elements of the union's policies for equality between women and men. it contributes to a better balance between private and professional life and a better division of family tasks and promotes the return to employment for those who decide to stop working to take care of their young children. but while all member states have adopted parental leave, there are significant differences between the states and at least a limited number of fathers benefit from it: only 10% of them and taking them into account from day one. this leave remains poorly paid and not fully covered. given the gender pay gap, it is still more economically advantageous for the mother to stop working. this directive should be reviewed to take account of these elements, in particular with regard to his remuneration. as usual in the case of women's rights, the national front voted against. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu of 5 april 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims from a gender perspective. the report aims to combat human trafficking and, in particular, the various forms of exploitation of women: pimping, begging, clandestine domestic work, forced marriage, organ trafficking and illegal adoptions. women and girls account for 80% of the registered victims of trafficking. while this objective is obviously commendable, the final text is not. the text proposes to regularize the victims of trafficking in the member states where they reside by creating safe channels for legal migration. the report also calls for the punishment of clients for prostitution, whereas it would seem more useful to actually crack down on pimps who are not deterred by the light sentences imposed on them. finally, it should be noted that the penalties imposed on criminals are by no means deterrent and therefore do not serve to impede the activity of these criminal networks. for all these reasons, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the member states do not sufficiently protect victims of trafficking in human beings, especially women and girls, and must take more measures to prevent, help and support victims. we also call on the member states to ensure that police, judicial and medical staff and social workers are adequately trained to identify vulnerable victims at the earliest opportunity and to provide them with the support they need. this includes access to housing, medical care, translation and legal advice, including the right to claim compensation and a recovery period of at least 30 days.
in writing. ‒ the report's laudable objective is diverted from its purpose. regularising all women who denounce a prostitution or begging network would open up a major legal source of immigration. this will be even more true for humanitarian visas. in addition, the penalties imposed on criminals are not particularly dissuasive and are therefore not likely to seriously hamper the activity of criminal networks. as regards illegal work, it simply calls for "greater attention" to employers, subcontractors and other employment agencies, but without mentioning their criminal and civil liability. i therefore voted against this report, which does not deal with the substance of a real problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, the fruit of a long process by my colleague catherine bearder, because trafficking in human beings is a violation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, a violation of the personal integrity of the victim and a serious form of organised crime that threatens the state, in particular the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings and in particular against the various forms of exploitation of women, who account for 80% of the registered victims of trafficking. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat trafficking in human beings, including by providing for the return of roma and illegal victims of trafficking to their home countries, and stresses the importance of creating safe legal migration channels for women and children, thus exacerbating the terrible migration crisis in europe. in addition, the penalties imposed on criminals are not particularly dissuasive and are therefore not likely to seriously hamper the activity of criminal networks. it calls for the clients of prostitutes to be punished, whereas penalties for pimps are not deterrent in their present form. i therefore voted against this report, the only practical result of which is to create new channels of immigration without addressing the root of the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which starts from good principles but twists them for dogmatic purposes. so while i am as concerned as anyone else about human trafficking in general and the exploitation of women in particular - who are often the first victims of precariousness - i regret that the text uses this pretext to encourage ever more immigration and ever more communitarianism. the rapporteur proposes that all migrant women who are victims of exploitation should be legalised, while at the same time nothing is actually proposed to tackle the networks of pimping or the pimps themselves. the rapporteur prefers to remain in the ideology that the only solution to these situations of great distress is through the massive and abusive funding of ngos working in favour of migrants. apparently, to benefit from the compassion and protection of the european institutions it is better to be part of a minority that would have the status of "victims" with brussels since the report emphasizes as much on migrants as on the so-called lgbti people, as if individuals could only be defined by this reduction to their membership of any community.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings must be stopped, both within and outside the eu's borders. to address this, we have put in place a european legislative framework, directive 2011/36/eu, on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. this report examines the implementation of this directive by the member states. the report calls on the member states to implement the directive, the measures of which have not yet been fully implemented by the member states. the text also stresses better cooperation with europol and eurojust, the need to strengthen frontex and the importance of a joint investigation mandate. these elements will help to combat trafficking in human beings in the union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to assess the measures taken in the implementation of the european rules on the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. the directive was transposed into national law in 2013 by 27 member states. the report emphasises the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings, with 80% of victims being women, and identifies possible shortcomings in its implementation. i supported this report because i believe that the european union must set an example in protecting victims of trafficking in human beings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu of 5 april 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims from the perspective of equality between men and women. the report emphasises the gender dimension and notes that a large majority of victims are women. in addition, it is important to remember that many victims are not identified and that prevention is essential to effectively combat trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings and human trafficking are violations of human rights. they are the source of sexual exploitation, but also of forced labour and begging. these heinous crimes first affect the most vulnerable populations. 70% of the victims are women, 16% are children. if there is a european legal framework, with the 2011 directive on preventing and combating this type of trafficking, it is poorly applied by the member states. significant progress needs to be made in identifying and supporting victims. this is the subject of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and on the protection of victims in the context of gender equality. trafficking in human beings is a violation of fundamental rights under article 5 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as well as an attack on the personal integrity of the victim and a serious form of organised crime that threatens the state, in particular the rule of law. in addition, i wanted to draw attention to the fight against prostitution and the so-called nordic model, which involves the penalisation of the demand for sexual services. i am in favour of this system of combating prostitution rings, which has become the norm in france thanks to a law passed earlier this year in the french parliament.
in writing. ‒ vote against: a goal that is laudable in principle but diverted from its purpose. regularising all women who denounce a prostitution or begging network would open up a major legal source of immigration.
in writing. ‒ the penalties imposed on criminals are not particularly deterrent and are therefore not likely to seriously hamper the activity of criminal networks. the report calls for strong penal sanctions to be implemented. as regards illegal work, it simply calls for "greater attention" to employers, subcontractors and other employment agencies, but without mentioning their criminal and civil liability. the lax spirit of the text made me vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns both the prevention of trafficking in human beings, the fight against this phenomenon and the protection of victims, which are subjects to which i am particularly sensitive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings. this is a goal that is praiseworthy in principle, but one that is misguided. the fight against trafficking in human beings and, in particular, against the various forms of exploitation of women, such as pimping, begging, illegal domestic work, forced marriage, organ trafficking and illegal adoption, must be fought. women and girls account for 80% of the registered victims of trafficking. however, the legalisation of all women who denounce a prostitution or begging network would open up a significant legal source of immigration. this will be even more true for humanitarian visas. it also refers to lgbt victims, so as to facilitate their regularisation, which would be made necessary by the discrimination against them.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is part of the fight against forms of exploitation of women (prostitution, begging, forced marriage, illegal adoptions). in reality, it seeks to favour certain people such as women who would agree to denounce a prostitution network or other people from the lgbt community, to facilitate their legalization. this is the intention of the text, which calls for large-scale funding for ngos in favour of migrants. the humanitarian intentions of the departure are therefore overwhelmed by ideological proposals.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the purpose of this text is to combat human trafficking and, in particular, the various forms of exploitation of women, and we welcome this. this objective, which is in full accord with our desire to combat these forms of exploitation, masks a very different desire: the legalization of all women who denounce a prostitution or begging network. this would open up a significant source of legal immigration, which would be amplified for humanitarian visas. the text would also be useful if the penalties imposed on criminals were dissuasive and were likely to seriously hamper the activity of criminal networks. we regret that this is not the case. the report calls for stronger penal sanctions, which we support. we condemn the lax approach to the question of illegal work. indeed, only "greater attention" to employers, subcontractors and other employment agencies is recommended, without mentioning their criminal and civil liability. what's the use? finally, there is a call for increased funding for ngos working for migrants, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ the concept of trafficking in human beings covers a wide range of activities: sexual exploitation, forced labour, forced marriages, domestic servitude, organ harvesting, forced begging, illegal adoptions... the report stresses that within the eu "asylum seekers, refugees and migrants are particularly vulnerable to trafficking" and calls for the establishment of "channels for legal and safe migration". the report rightly points out that "trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation has declined in countries that have criminalized demand, including pimping and the purchase of sexual services" and also calls on member states to establish "safe abortion services". i am voting for this text, although i regret that it has no legislative value and is therefore merely wishful thinking.
in writing. - this report raises a number of problems. i believe, in particular, that the measures he is advocating will not make it possible to identify or protect victims more effectively. indeed, by seeking rights and residence permits for victims of trafficking, he risks exposing the migrants to processes that are not human enough for them to obtain their legalisation. finally, human trafficking is already very much regulated in france, and is a harmful and unnecessary burden. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the text is quickly diverted from its objective, which is in principle to combat trafficking in human beings. the legalization of all women who denounce a prostitution or begging network would open up a major legal source of immigration. this will be even more true for humanitarian visas. in addition, the penalties imposed on criminals are not particularly dissuasive and are therefore not likely to seriously hamper the activity of criminal networks. the report calls for strong penal sanctions to be implemented. as regards illegal work, it simply calls for "greater attention" to employers, subcontractors and other employment agencies, but without mentioning their criminal and civil liability. for these reasons, it is not possible to support this text.
in writing. ‒ the penalties imposed on criminals are not particularly deterrent and are therefore not likely to seriously hamper the activity of criminal networks. the report calls for strong penal sanctions to be implemented. as regards illegal work, it simply calls for "greater attention" to employers, subcontractors and other employment agencies, but without mentioning their criminal and civil liability. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the prevention of trafficking in human beings. while this phenomenon benefits mainly criminal networks, it is essential to strengthen the arsenal of the european union to combat more effectively all practices that violate human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the bearder report on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings. some items were put to the vote in the chamber, and i decided to vote in favour of all those which called for the help and protection of transgender people who are victims of violence, the protection of prostitutes and the penalisation of their clients on the basis of the nordic model in force, access to abortion in the case of pregnancies resulting from sexual and forced exploitation, the protection of lgbti people and finally a proposal for a law against violence against women. the european union must continue to mobilise and act against all forms of violence and to protect citizens.
in writing. ‒ in europe, 70% of the victims of human trafficking are eu nationals. i voted in favour of a text which makes recommendations on the implementation of the directive to combat this phenomenon and, above all, to protect the victims, who are unfortunately mostly women and children. it is therefore important to remember that the measures must be applied at member state level, in addition to the necessary european cooperation.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is a heinous form of organised crime, which generates considerable profits and generally goes unpunished. it is also a serious violation of human rights, affecting many victims. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus. this requires a comprehensive approach, focusing on prevention, prosecution of perpetrators and protection of victims; this also means measures that are gender-sensitive. women and men are often victims of different types of trafficking and are not equally vulnerable to exploitation. in addition, the specific situation of certain victims, such as children or lgbti persons, requires specific responses. the report particularly emphasises the need for identification, support and assistance to victims. this must be a priority: first and foremost, these are human beings who have suffered terrible trauma, and they must be helped to rebuild. in this sense, it is essential to allow them to obtain a residence permit without conditions, but also to ensure that their status is recognised throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is intolerable. it must be stopped, in whatever form. this will include effective implementation of eu legislation, in particular directive 2011/36/eu. the fight against trafficking in human beings must first be preventive. and where it could not be prevented, victims must be protected and supported, their rights respected, their return to normal life guaranteed, while a repressive component must also be properly applied. impunity on this issue cannot be accepted. human trafficking is an affront to our societies based on respect for fundamental rights and our values. women and girls make up 80% of the victims of human trafficking. children account for 16% of the victims. these figures are all the more appalling when you consider that 10 000 unaccompanied children disappeared after arriving in the union in 2015, according to europol. human trafficking is unacceptable. appropriate action must be taken. this text supports this idea. that's why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on member states to take gender-related prevention, assistance and support measures and to better protect victims of trafficking in human beings. the text recalls that progress has been made in the fight against international trafficking in human beings. nevertheless, it is crucial that european legislation on victims' rights is applied in a more optimal way. women and children are the primary victims of traffickers. in 2015, according to europol, nearly 10 000 unaccompanied children disappeared since their arrival in the union. in the face of these alarming figures, measures are needed to ensure the mandatory registration of children on arrival and their inclusion in child protection systems. it also requires that the sexual exploitation of women, a common practice of traffickers, be given priority. finally, i supported this text because it calls on the member states to provide adequate training for social and law enforcement services so that they can identify victims of trafficking as quickly as possible and offer them adequate support.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the text is in principle commendable but is diverted from its purpose. regularising all women who denounce a prostitution or begging network would open up a major legal source of immigration. this will be even more true for humanitarian visas. in addition, the penalties imposed on criminals are not particularly dissuasive and are therefore not likely to seriously hamper the activity of criminal networks. the report calls for strong penal sanctions to be implemented. as regards illegal work, it simply calls for "greater attention" to employers, subcontractors and other employment agencies, but without mentioning their criminal and civil liability. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the implementation of the directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings. the european commission failed to meet the deadlines for the publication of a report assessing the implementation by member states of the provisions of this directive. human trafficking claimed more than 30 000 victims (recorded) in the eu between 2010 and 2012: 80% were women and 16% were children, of which 13% were girls. women and girls represent 95% of the victims of sexual exploitation and trafficking. the member states put human trafficking on the map to justify repressive policies against migrants without implementing european legislation. this report is a step in the right direction in emphasising the prohibition of penalising victims of trafficking. they must be able to receive protection and assistance through a gender-based approach, with an increase in the number of shelters or by strengthening social reintegration programmes for victims. the report also stresses the importance of systematic recognition by all member states of the right to abortion for victims. so i voted for it.
mr president, on this point, the signatures had been deposited, so we were in a regular procedure. at some point there is a withdrawal, but we are in a legal vacuum. so i would like to understand what the case law is on this matter and why, while the formalism has been preserved - indeed, there has been a withdrawal, but everything that has been done from a formal point of view is regular and we are in a legal vacuum - why you are backing down on this motion of censure on endocrine disruptors. i think it is a bit unfortunate that we are not going down that road because the resolution does not have that binding scope. i hope that parliament is not under pressure in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in congo-brazzaville has become very difficult, following an abusive referendum to extend the mandate of the head of state who has been there for 32 years, a chaotic presidential election on 20 march, the bombing of entire regions acquired from the opposition and the placing under surveillance or house arrest of several opposition candidates, including general mokoko, who had also commanded the african forces in the central african republic. the european parliament generally deals with human rights violations or questions of questionable democratic regimes, and i think that today is the time to restore a number of truths and to hold a debate on the situation in congo-brazzaville.
mr president, we all know miguel arias cañete. he is a very talented commissioner who has so far carried out his task with great competence, as was seen, among other things, during the cop 21 negotiations last year. its declaration of interest was submitted to the commission. it is in accordance with the commissioners' code of conduct and includes all professional activities and financial interests of his wife which would have been likely to create a conflict of interest. the commissioner has therefore played the game of transparency. i regret that for political reasons the far left has been attacking commissioner arias cañete from the start and is trying to find every possible way to discredit him. that is why our group opposes this request.
mr president, commissioner, once again you are essentially talking about opening up markets, opening up without limits, which will put europe and its states even more under foreign domination. you have no sovereignty strategy, even european, in the face of foreign technologies which are technologies of domination. your single market, therefore, will deliver even more european data to the gafa (google, apple, facebook, amazon) working with us intelligence, for america and its companies, against our companies. yesterday, in 1990, we had the world's first e-technology market with alcatel. the german siemens was also in a very good position. we should have created a european monopoly, which your competition has forbidden. today alcatel is destroyed by its alliance with the united states, siemens is overtaken by american and chinese companies, because there has been no protection of the european market, as we had protection of the national market before the european rules. russia and china have pursued a policy of sovereignty to meet these challenges, europe has not. today you propose a european cloud. that's good! but will this cloud be in the skies of european states, of citizens who want to protect their data? your liberal approach makes me fear the worst. you will probably give it to companies outside europe. your digital single market, without a real strategy, relying again on european leaders to make them world leaders, protecting them first, in a protected european market, as russia and china have done to preserve their independence, is a submission to outside powers. the commission has no ambition, because it has no borders and no sovereignty. it destroys, in the name of competition and openness, the states which had such ambitions. i am thinking of france and germany. it is time to go out and build europe with other institutions. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
answer is "blue cardboard". you're going to win the prize for cartooning. what did i say? i said, for example, a market like china has managed to protect itself from the dominance of the united states in this kind of technology by protecting its market. i also said - and i do not think russia is an example - that russia is a sovereign country, which has a sovereignty strategy and has been keen to maintain a mastery in this area of technology, which is fundamental to the organization of society, our industries and our sovereignty. we do not have such an ambition, and that is what i regret for europe.
question for the council i agree with everything you said. i would simply like to know whether you are in favour of protecting the european market?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, by a trick of history, the european union is the eighth participant in the g7 summits, which are theoretically reserved for seven states. tusk and juncker will therefore represent it at the next summit, which will take place in japan on 26 and 27 may. i am afraid, unfortunately, that they will have a negative influence on the solution of three problems which will be discussed. in economic matters, they will, as usual, advocate ultraliberalism, which is the bane of the european peoples. will they have the audacity to welcome progress in the negotiation of tafta, as they did at the g7 last year? i bet they do, because they're deaf to the concerns of the public. in foreign policy, they will probably be hard on russia, which is objectively our main ally in the fight against the islamic state and against terrorism. and on the migration crisis, they will reinforce the g7 states in their error. the only long-term solution is to provide education and economic development aid to the states that need it, in order to keep people at home. but who cares? at the world humanitarian summit in istanbul, which just ended on 24 may, the g7 leaders were not there, and today the council is not even represented in the european parliament. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". thank you for this very interesting question. i think the g7 is one of the most interesting instruments for solving international problems. as regards the exchange of information, it is of course necessary in many areas, particularly in the fight against terrorism. i am a representative of a political group which advocates cooperation between sovereign states and i therefore believe that this kind of exchange of information is acceptable provided that it is not taken over by the brussels commission which inevitably overturns good projects.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, endocrine disruptors are a serious and widespread structural threat to public health, as our citizens are in contact with these substances on a daily basis. this is why the european institutions, which have taken upon themselves the power of regulation and regulation, must take on real responsibilities. and in this the commission has failed. firstly, the reasonable period between the publication of the regulation and that of the delegated acts is not respected. however, neither institutional complexity nor the need for an impact assessment is acceptable to justify such a delay in view of the importance of the health issue. i would also point out that, while the european regulation is directly applicable throughout the union, the commission has the luxury of procrastinating in publishing delegated acts. this is an illustration of regulatory opacity. it is good to want to legislate better, but it is also necessary to apply it to oneself. on the other hand, the seriousness of the danger requires that the method of assessment should not be debated and that action should not be taken until there is clear evidence. more seriously, using an impact assessment to try to define criteria for endocrine disruptors before the publication of delegated acts is a misuse of regulatory power. the commission is therefore evading its responsibilities and the revelation of its true intentions. it also contributes to the degradation of the sense of decision-making, the lack of transparency at the very source of regulation and the dispersion of power. the commission has committed a grave and serious error and yet it seems to be ignoring the demands of the court of justice. the motion of censure was a powerful political act to punish the commission. no, mr lamberts, this is not a disproportionate instrument, it is part of the rules of power and today i have the impression that certain groups of people who are not very courageous want to get away with this, where parliament would be complicit with the commission in its inaction. we want clear answers from the commission on these criteria and these errors.
madam president, tonight, at approximately 11:15 p.m., i would like to speak about the austrian presidential elections. the highlight of this election is that the sovereignist candidate of the fpö won almost 50% of the vote, which is absolutely extraordinary compared to the result he had before. what are the consequences for schengen? in the short term, of course, there will be none, because the european union is like an autistic person, it does not want to see anything, it does not want to understand that people are worried and it will continue to try to save schengen, at the cost, moreover, of an absolutely disastrous agreement with turkey, which will soon mean that we will issue visas to 78 million turks. in the medium term, however, things will change, for austria has sent a wonderful message of hope to the peoples. the french people will know the consequences as early as 2017 and the austrian people will be in charge again in the parliamentary elections in 2018. more generally, the peoples of europe are worried, they no longer want this european union and, for them, these austrian presidential elections are a great sign of hope.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, as we predicted, the end of the milk quotas has plunged the sector into a deep crisis - one more, you might say - when everything is being sacrificed on the altar of free trade. the learned predictions of incompetent technocrats, who explained that everything would be better afterwards, have proved to be wrong. isn't that amazing? you wanted an unregulated market. regulation is the only viable policy to reduce the volatility of prices. why make decisions that ultimately benefit only the industry? the policy of deregulation of the markets has inexorably led us to this crisis, as it has in other agricultural sectors. yet you persist again and again in this hopeless course. i can't believe this! the increase in volumes since the end of quotas is causing a drop in prices, and the export price is not sufficient to compensate for the losses. even germany is affected: the end of quotas has caused a drop in income to 27 cents per litre, with a forecast of 22 to 23 cents. in france, the price of a litre is now 28 cents. a third of german dairy farms have disappeared in ten years. all the professionals in the sector are calling for a regulatory policy. the milk package adopted last year, although inadequate, provided a clear picture of the problems caused by the end of quotas and the serious imbalances between producers, manufacturers and distributors. we must not simply observe, but take courageous decisions: decisions which are necessary, as opposed to those which have accelerated the disappearance of the peasantry and the increase in concentration. what is the cost of your deregulation policy to european taxpayers? how many jobs lost? how many rural areas are at risk? i really think that the record of your criminal policy should be brought to light.
madam president, commissioner, it is a great pleasure to meet you again. we now see each other twice a week, but things are not going well. unfortunately, as we gather here, some farms are going to collapse. i am thinking in particular of those which have recently invested, those which have modernised and young farmers. we are seeing the departure of those who could have been the future of european agriculture. the cap was the most credible and elaborate of the union's policies. we are now witnessing a political breakdown. we need more europe in this crisis. we don't have the means to store milk and butter for years. so we have to limit production. why not propose that farmers over 65 years of age should stop producing, so that younger farmers can take over? i am giving you a hint because i firmly believe that by reducing and limiting production we will have the cheapest and most effective policy. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, thank you for your question. perhaps it is worth recalling that it was i who proposed a system of support for farmers who, in times of overproduction, would reduce their production in an attempt to bring the market back on track. i'm still on that line. parliament adopted it, the council and the commission refused it: it is up to them to take their responsibilities today.
madam president, commissioner, it was obvious that the abolition of milk quotas without a new regulatory organization would lead to the crisis through overproduction and, therefore, mechanically, through falling prices. today the european union is at the brink of collapse and you, commissioner, have finally decided to use article 222 of the single european act. this is a first good news, but it is not enough, because the success of the implementation of this article will depend on the ability of producer organizations and cooperatives to win the day both in reducing production and also in negotiating prices or in directing production towards humanitarian solutions. a good way, commissioner, of making their tasks easier for these organisations is to set up financial assistance for retirement at european level. as a rural elected official, i very much hope that this will happen, because otherwise we will see new waves of desertification in our countryside, and i believe that this is in no one's interest.
madam president, milk producers are selling at a loss today. in the face of the new human tragedies that are looming, we have a duty, ladies and gentlemen, to equip ourselves with intelligent protection instruments to prevent and manage crisis situations. the european union's evangelicalism cannot make commercial self-disarmament a dogma. i am thinking in particular of the negotiations on a free trade agreement with new zealand. the same applies to competition law and the prohibition of cartels. let us therefore be pragmatic and dare to set up european mechanisms to adjust supply to demand. in the spirit of article 222 of the cmo, without being too nostalgic about quotas, i think it would be appropriate to entrust the responsibility for regulating the volumes delivered to the producer associations - the pdos - on the basis of regulations adopted, as the case may be, at european level. as a transitional instrument, an insurance system subject to compliance with such directives would be likely to motivate farmers and effectively restrict their milk production, which would compensate for temporary income losses. the scheme would be financed by a levy in high-price circumstances. mr president, commissioner, there is still time to prevent the human tragedies that have been announced. we are waiting for a european response, not for a renationalisation of agricultural policy. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i certainly do. however, as far as the common agricultural policy is concerned, we must prepare for the next revision. we certainly need to develop export markets; this is an imperative. but all countries will be concerned about food self-sufficiency, and so i believe that there is an urgent need here in europe to reconcile producers and consumers and to apply competition law and cartel law intelligently. otherwise we risk triggering an unbearable human tragedy.
in writing. i could repeat many of the speeches made by my colleagues to denounce the unrestrained and disorganized liberalization of the cap. denounce the destruction of rural economic fabric. to denounce the weakening of the actors in the face of the big cast. reporting the loss of know-how. and, most importantly, to speak out about the terrible human consequences, the broken families, the suicides. yes, this unregulated cap is killing. but i only have a minute. i shall therefore confine myself to my specialty: the budget of the union. because the cap, contaminated by the 'right of return' virus, is a series of national envelopes. in order to be able to measure their financial returns more easily, the member states have sacrificed the community dimension of the cap. the tools for market intervention are now minimal, emergency aid is paltry and market regulation is disappearing. farmers need these tools because they want fair prices for their produce and not to be dependent on subsidies. unless the way the union is financed is radically changed, the cap will remain sick of the back-and-forth and ineffective. the cap will continue to kill.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, your report certainly offers some interesting ideas for the future, such as the collaborative economy, improved financing for smes, start-ups, artisans and traders. but you're missing one thing: your balance sheet. you're not starting from scratch. the single market has been in existence for decades and the blueprints drawn up on the comet must leave room for pragmatic assessments and realistic projections. and then it all falls apart! the news shows all over europe that further european integration is not working. worse, the populations don't want it anymore, or at least want it less. but, out of political autism or ideological blindness, you propose more europe and demand the removal of the last obstacles to the federalism so desired by the unelected commissioners and technocrats in brussels. he doesn't care about the cries of the people, the distress of the people, common sense, reality. mrs comi has managed to combine, in a beautiful magic trick, the intensification of the fight against protectionism, the implementation of the services directive, a real disaster for french companies, and the directive on the posting of workers, which destroys local jobs, with the protection of artisans and smes. explain to us, apart from incantations, how these two objectives can be reconciled.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report gives an account of the development of virtual currencies, the main danger of which, in addition to the dematerialization of money, which is supposed to be tangible, is the emergence of an international currency market independent of the power of central banks and therefore of states. it is also feared that one of the motivations for large international banks to invest in virtual currencies is the possible establishment of an interbank market managed exclusively by them. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which welcomes the dematerialization of money through so-called virtual currencies. however, they pose a great danger, as they are totally opaque to transactions conducive to criminal activities such as money laundering, terrorist financing or tax fraud and/or evasion. moreover, although they remain marginal today - with "bitcoin" holding 90% of the shares of this market for "only" 5 billion euros - these virtual currencies raise the risk of creating a foreign exchange market independent of the power of central banks, and therefore a fortiori, of states. eventually, the result would be an interbank market run exclusively by the big international banks and thus the unlimited and unrestricted submission of all to the power of money. however, i would be less categorical about distributed ledger technology (dlt), which, if used correctly, offers tremendous potential, for example in terms of crowdfunding.
in writing. ‒ there are two main dangers of virtual currencies. first, they give rise to an international currency market independent of the power of central banks and thus of the states. second, transactions made with these currencies allow for complete anonymity. they are thus used mainly on the 'black market' for money laundering, terrorist financing, tax fraud and evasion and other criminal activities. these currencies have no real basis, are not subject to any regulation and are mainly used to finance criminal activities. distributed ledger technology allows large amounts of transactions to be processed reliably and very quickly. its potential is expanding beyond the financial sector. this technology also presents an opportunity for public bodies by simplifying and securing e-government services and data protection. i shall vote against this report, which presents virtual currencies as a means of making a positive contribution to the development of the economy and of peoples.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an overview of the development of virtual currencies and the underlying technology that enables them to operate. virtual currencies are presented as a means of making a positive contribution to the economic development of our nations. we believe that they are a real danger because they are completely outside the control of central banks and governments. in addition, virtual currencies offer complete anonymity to those who use them to carry out transactions; they are therefore mainly used to finance criminal activities. because we are opposed to the use of these virtual currencies, which are not subject to any regulation, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are digital representations of a value that are not issued by a bank or a public authority. they are not necessarily linked to a fiat currency but are accepted as a means of payment. there are more than 600 virtual currency systems. the most well-known of these is bitcoin. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010. they also entail certain risks linked to the lack of governance, which leads to insecurity and consumer protection problems, as well as volatility and legal uncertainty. the report does not call for immediate legislation on virtual currencies but proposes a thorough impact assessment before any new legislation in this area. the report calls for the creation of a task force on virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology led by the commission and composed of regulatory and technical experts. the aim is to eventually create a proportionate regulatory framework that does not constitute a brake on innovation. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the challenges and opportunities of the phenomenon of cryptocurrency, decentralised electronic money, and banking transactions governed by blockchain technologies, information storage and transmission technology. the report calls for the legal framework to be strengthened to ensure security in the use of virtual currency and for a dedicated working group to be set up. considering that the modernisation of the financial sector must be accompanied by a clear framework in order to support the real economy in the long term, i supported this report.
in writing. this report on virtual currencies highlights the benefits and risks of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology. i voted in favour of this report which calls for intelligent and proportionate regulation at union level. however, i would stress the need to exercise caution in the management of these virtual currencies in order to put an end to their use in criminal activities such as arms, drugs, money laundering and terrorist financing.
in writing. - the virtual currency bitcoin was created seven years ago. since then, many digital currencies have developed online. these virtual currencies have the potential to reduce transaction costs. but the virtual currency has been criticized for its volatility: after surpassing $1,100 in 2013, it fell to $150 in early 2015 before starting to rebound last month. the absence of legal control also creates a grey area that could favour the use of virtual currencies for money laundering, fraud or terrorist financing. the european union must therefore adopt legislation as soon as possible, including measures to monitor such transactions and protect the interests of users of such platforms.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the creation of a working group to better understand the issue of virtual currencies, such as bitcoin, and distributed ledger technology. there seem to be some benefits: reduction of financial transaction costs and associated risks, traceability of trade, response to the financial crisis and the resulting problem of the shortage of credit to finance the economy, improvement of online managed service provision... but there is still a lot of uncertainty, particularly about the possibility of using these virtual currencies for money laundering, terrorist financing or tax evasion. i wonder what the links are between this ict-related innovation and the financial transaction tax that i wish for. the ad hoc working group will have to shed light on the challenges, opportunities and threats to the general interest of distributed ledgers and, if necessary, make appropriate regulatory proposals if the need arises.
in writing. ‒ this paper provides an overview of the development of virtual currencies and the underlying technology of distributed ledgers (dlt) that enables them to operate. bitcoin is a virtual currency, created in 2009, which could serve as the foundation for an international currency market, independent of the power of central banks and therefore of states. in addition, the transactions concerned are covered by anonymity and thus facilitate dubious movements such as money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and tax evasion. dlt technology allows large amounts of transactions to be processed reliably and very quickly, through new intermediaries that are more efficient and less costly. it can also simplify and secure the online administration services of public bodies. it is therefore worth keeping an eye on this technology with its high potential. it must not be exploited by large digital groups that want to get their hands on the digital security and information sector. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: these currencies have no real basis, are not subject to any regulation and are mainly used to finance criminal activities.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report takes stock of the development of virtual currencies and the underlying technology that enables them to operate, distributed ledger technology (dlt). while this technology seems promising, it should not be a means for a few large digital groups to take over the digital security and information sector. nevertheless, this report presents virtual currencies as a means of making a positive contribution to economic development and the development of peoples, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses the challenges and opportunities associated with the emerging phenomenon of virtual currencies such as bitcoin. these virtual currencies do indeed pose significant challenges in terms of consumer protection and guarantees, to which i am particularly attentive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on virtual currencies. this text provides an overview of virtual currencies and the technology that enables their operation, distributed ledger technology (dlt) or blockchain. while highlighting the significant potential of dlt and the fact that it can revolutionize the financial services sector, the report presents virtual currencies as a means to contribute positively to economic development and people's development. we are strongly opposed to this view of virtual currencies because they are above all the means of creating a monetary system independent of central banks and therefore of the states. furthermore, transactions using virtual currencies, which offer complete anonymity, are often conducted on the black market, for money laundering, terrorist financing, tax fraud and evasion, and other criminal activities.
in writing. ‒ the development of virtual currencies has advantages but also risks. they rely on new technologies to operate, called distributed ledger technology (dlt), which have many advantages. in particular, they promote simpler and cheaper processing of digital data. in addition, virtual currencies make it possible to simplify e-government services and data protection. however, these advantages were not without their drawbacks. the text does indeed mention the emergence of an international currency market. this developing entity tends to sideline central banks and governments and thus to escape their control. the transactions that feed it are anonymous, which leaves the financing of criminal and terrorist activities open. i therefore oppose this situation created by virtual currencies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report focuses on the development of virtual currencies and their underlying technology: distributed ledger technology. distributed ledger technology makes financial transactions easy. it is transferable to other fields and uses: crowdfunding, digital signature of legal documents, and online services of public administration. we are therefore in favour of the use of this technology. we are, however, strongly opposed to the rise of virtual currencies. for the time being, this remains a hypothesis: the mediocre success of bitcoin created in 2009 is a testament to this: although it accounts for 90% of the virtual currency market, it weighs only five billion euros. the development of virtual currencies would primarily serve the interests of banking institutions by allowing the creation of an interbank market of which they would have exclusivity. furthermore, complete anonymity would facilitate fraud, criminal and terrorist activities. in general, we reject the complete dematerialization of payments. the tangible nature of money is a guarantee of the independence of citizens from the control of the banks.
in writing. ‒ the report takes stock of virtual currencies and the technologies that enable them to be traded. the report supports the spread of virtual currencies, arguing that they are the vectors of our economic developments. among other things, they offer complete anonymity, opening the door to tax evasion or money laundering without pressure. we oppose the system of central banks, which are outside the control of the states, and which underlie the vision developed for these currencies. these have no real basis, are not subject to any regulation and benefit first of all the scammers. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ virtual currencies are a system outside the control of central banks and states, so i am voting against this report which presents them as a simple tool that can promote economic development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which balances the advantages, primarily the reduction of transaction costs, with the disadvantages of virtual currencies, including the lack of governance to ensure the protection of users. i particularly support the request to the european commission to set up a task force of regulatory experts and technical experts to develop a regulatory framework for these new currencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which encourages the european commission to develop the necessary expertise on virtual currency technologies and recommends the preparation of legislation in this regard. however, it is not a question of stifling innovation and over-regulating technology. the key words in the field of support for technological change must be supervision and monitoring.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on virtual currencies. virtual currencies are considered to be digital cash accepted as a means of payment by natural or legal persons and which can be transferred, stored or exchanged electronically. these are mainly based on distributed ledger technology, which has the potential to process vast amounts of transactions quickly and the ability to revolutionize the virtual currency sector but also, more generally, the financial technology sector. virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology have many benefits but also risks that need to be carefully considered: the high volatility of virtual currencies, the absence of traditional forms of surveillance, regulatory safeguards and protection, or the possibility of transactions on the 'black market', money laundering, terrorist financing, etc. we therefore recommend a proportionate regulatory approach at union level, without, however, holding back innovation. it would also be appropriate to set up a cross-cutting study group composed of technical and regulatory experts. finally, we stress the importance of consumer awareness, transparency and trust in the use of virtual currencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on virtual currencies. these are digital representations of a value that are not issued by a bank or a public authority. they are not necessarily linked to a fiat currency but are accepted as a means of payment. there are more than 600 virtual currency systems. given the new and innovative nature of virtual currencies and their lack of regulation, the aim of this report is to be able to give parliament's position on virtual currencies. finally, the text calls for a thorough impact assessment to be carried out before legislation is drawn up and also calls for the creation of a task force on virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology, led by the commission and composed of regulatory and technical experts.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report takes stock of the development of virtual currencies and the underlying technology that enables them to operate, distributed ledger technology (dlt). at the moment, the market for virtual currencies is still very marginal and very new. the main danger they represent, in addition to the dematerialization of money which is supposed to be tangible, is the emergence of an international currency market independent of the power of central banks and therefore of the states. furthermore, transactions using virtual currencies, which offer complete anonymity, are almost entirely carried out on the 'black market' for money laundering, terrorist financing, tax fraud and evasion, and other criminal activities. while this report highlights the significant potential of dlt and the fact that it can revolutionize the financial services sector, this report presents virtual currencies only as a means to contribute positively to economic development and the development of peoples. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ "bitcoin" is a virtual and encrypted currency. it is electronic money which has the peculiarity of developing independently of any authority, including state, banking or even entrepreneurial. bitcoin has been the most widely used and accepted virtual currency in the world since its launch in 2011. this type of currency has many advantages: no cost between transactions, no intermediary, fast payment... but it is not without risks for users because of its lack of regulation, its volatility and its dependence on algorithms that can make it a significant speculative tool. the unprotected user can therefore be hacked and lose his money without compensation. this currency can even be used for money laundering and thus financing criminal networks or the black market. that is why it has been banned in some countries. the report submitted to the european parliament is a balanced report, which i think presents the risks and the necessary improvements, calling for caution, while taking into account the small impact of this type of currency on the current economy, especially in europe. i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim of this text is to mobilise eur 5.1 million to reintegrate 2 132 workers made redundant by the french road transport company mory-global into the labour market. even if this text tries to conceal the unfair competition caused by the posting of foreign workers in france and by road cabotage, which accounts for 10% of the transfer of goods in france, i am a defender of these workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ following the redundancies following the liquidation of the french road transport company mory-global, france has requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund (€5.1 million) to reintegrate 2 132 redundant workers into the labour market. the french government argues that since the 2008 crisis, the road transport sector has shrunk by 14% in the european union and by 21% in france. it also argues that a downward price race has begun in the european union. the fund thus acts as a disincentive mechanism both for business leaders who can more easily relocate, but also for national governments who do not dare to face the real problem of unfair competition imposed by free trade. however, this is still substantial aid needed to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the aid provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund which will provide meagre compensation to the 2 132 workers made redundant by the french road haulage company mory-global. the very existence of this fund is further evidence, if any, of the devastating effects of this so-called "happy globalization": since 2008, the road transport sector has shrunk by 14% across the european union and by 21% in france. the report does not, however, dare to mention the ravages of unfair competition, probably because brussels itself is responsible for the directive on the posting of workers, which has murdered our employees through social dumping. the commission may want to reform this directive by introducing a minimum wage for posted workers: it will still be much lower than the average wage for french road hauliers and the differential in social contributions may still amount to up to 30% of the cost of labour.
in writing. ‒ this is the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for €5.1 million to help reintegrate 2 132 workers made redundant into the labour market. although the fund acts as a disempowering mechanism for business leaders who can more easily relocate and for national governments who are afraid to confront the problem of unfair competition imposed by free trade, it serves as the main aid to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to grant france a financial contribution of eur 5.1 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to reintegrate into the labour market 2 132 workers made redundant following the liquidation of the road transport company mory global. the fund has the merit of responding to the urgency of the situation, but it does not address the root causes of the deindustrialization which western countries have been facing since the 1980s. it would be essential to combat unfair international competition faced by our companies and to recover our monetary sovereignty in order to correct the existing differences in competitiveness within the euro area. as a good fireman, the european union is handing over our economies to the globalist world by removing almost all the tariff and non-tariff barriers that protect us from social and environmental dumping by emerging countries and then coming to the aid of our employees who have been laid off as a result of the closure of their companies. i voted in favour of this proposal, which provides an immediate response to the urgency of the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by france for the redundant employees of mory global. the contribution amounts to eur 5 146 800 for 2 132 workers in 54 sites throughout france. these workers will be able to benefit, among other things, from training to help them in their career reorientation. the mobilisation of the fund in the case of mory global was justified. european companies are being penalized by the unfair global competition in the transport sector. the european globalisation adjustment fund demonstrates the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes the mobilisation of eur 5 146 800 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 2 132 redundant workers of the road haulage and delivery services company moryglobal sas in france, following the closure of the company. the egf helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. this european instrument has a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020 and aims in particular to provide career guidance services. i have supported this report because i believe that the european union must help the declining sectors to move towards a competitive economic model.
in writing. the european commission's proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to enable france to receive financial contributions from the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant. since france has complied with the conditions for granting financial contributions from the egf and the redundancies are due to the impact of the global financial and economic crisis on the road haulage sector, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the global economic and financial crisis has hit many sectors of european industry hard. according to the banque de france, since 2007, bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector have increased by 35% per year. in this context, 2 132 truck drivers recently lost their jobs as a result of the closure of the road haulage and delivery services company moryglobal. it is therefore natural that the european union should help these displaced workers through the european globalisation adjustment fund. eur 5 million was therefore allocated to finance a programme of job training and skills upgrading and programmes to support entrepreneurship. but beyond the specific and one-off assistance that the fund can provide, it is urgent for the european union to put in place a real strategy to better anticipate economic changes, to protect smes, to implement a forward-looking investment policy and to equip itself with real instruments for trade defence.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation. it has a maximum annual budget of €150 million for the period 2014-2020 and can finance up to 60% of the cost of projects to help people who have lost their jobs to find work or to set up their own business. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf at the request of france following the redundancies at moryglobal. the commission considers that the measure is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state. nine sites in the centre region had to close, resulting in 383 redundancies. the vote will free up eur 5 146 800 from the egf to support redundant workers. this sum will, among other things, finance collective and individual information sessions for employees, professional transition (membership, skills assessment, professional project), support and retraining to new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i was the fictitious rapporteur on this supporting dossier for mory-global (which took over 2 107 former mory-ducros workers) following the various bankruptcies affecting the road freight transport sector. i took the opportunity to convey the main messages of my report on the balance sheet of the egf since 2007. it is a useful instrument of solidarity with the workers. i believe that the cfp should continue to operate outside the next programming period, while taking advantage of a number of improvements in budget implementation, speed of procedures, its more forward-looking role for anticipatory sectoral funding, its coordination with the structural funds and the award criteria to take account of smes and collateral damage in the immediate environment of the targeted enterprise (trade, craft, social life). i also call for a more comprehensive reflection on the impact of globalisation on a sector-by-sector basis and i ask the european commission to make proposals to introduce real social and fiscal harmonization, particularly in the field of transport.
in writing. ‒ following the redundancies following the liquidation of the french road transport company mory-global, france has requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund (€5.1 million) to reintegrate 2 132 workers concerned into the labour market. it should be noted that the french government makes no reference to unfair competition in the posting of foreign workers to france. unfortunately, this fund risks relieving the heads of companies, who will be more inclined to relocate, but also national governments, who do not dare to question the dogma of ever greater free trade. nevertheless, this is substantial aid which is necessary to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers. for practical reasons, i nevertheless voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this is substantial aid needed to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers.
in writing. ‒ the fund acts as a disincentive mechanism both for business leaders who can relocate more easily, but also for national governments who are afraid to confront the real problem of unfair competition imposed by free trade. however, this is still substantial aid needed to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers. that is why i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to mobilise, at the request of france, the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 5 146 800 to help the dismissed employees of the moryglobal group in france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the redundant workers of mory-global. following the redundancies following the liquidation of the french road transport company, france requested aid (eur 5.1 million) to reintegrate 2 132 workers made redundant into the labour market. the french government argues that since 2008, the road transport sector has shrunk by 14% in the european union and by 21% in france. but at no point is there any reference to unfair competition through the posting of foreign workers and road cabotage, which accounts for 10% of the transfer of goods in france. and the application of the minimum wage to posted workers solves nothing since the average wage of french road hauliers is much higher. the difference in social contributions can be up to 30% of the cost of labour. the fund thus acts as a discharge mechanism for business leaders, but also for national governments which do not face the real problem of unfair competition imposed by free trade. however, this is still substantial aid to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a european aid that can be mobilised to support employees made redundant by their companies in difficulty. in the present case, the commission is requested to pay the sum of eur 5.1 million for the 2 132 cases of fraud involving the french road transport company mory global. the 2008 crisis is the main cause of the failure of the road sector and the liquidation of this company. however, foreign workers posted to france are another unfair competition, born of globalisation and free trade. although the european fund is a means of relieving national authorities of any responsibility, it is necessary to rehabilitate the workers of moryglobal, who do not have to pay the price for the dishonest policies of their managers. that is why i voted in favour of this aid.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) intervenes when more than 500 people are unemployed as a result of globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. in this context, the european commission presented on 7 april 2016 a proposal for financial support following a request by france to provide assistance to 2 132 workers made redundant by moryglobal. the latter had been forced to close following persistent difficulties (fall in transport volumes, price wars, etc.) since the financial crisis of 2008. the allocation of funds proposed by the commission will make it possible to implement training or vocational reintegration plans for these employees. in order to reaffirm europe's support for employment, i am voting in favour of this gef dossier.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the aim is to provide financial assistance of eur 5.1 million to the 2 132 employees of the french road haulage company moryglobal. the latter was liquidated in 2015. the report does not in any way call into question the harmful effects of the free movement of workers and the posting directive. the posting of workers directive allows an employer to pay the social security contributions of the home country of an employee from another member state. in france, this difference in social contributions is about 30%. the road transport sector employs the majority of posted workers in france. in addition, road cabotage, which consists in the possibility for a european carrier to deliver goods between two cities in a member state in which it is not established, aggravates this social dumping. these considerations aside, we support this report. we want these former employees to be able to benefit from this welcome material support.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed that the globalisation adjustment fund should support the 2 132 employees made redundant by the french company mory-global. in principle, i do not approve of the existence of this fund, because it makes companies irresponsible for their relocations. i am aware of this phenomenon which raises questions about the usefulness of this fund. it also prevents the states from worrying about unfair competition in free trade. however, it is right to help these workers to reintegrate. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is substantial aid needed to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers; i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of the french transport company mory global, who were made redundant as a result of a fall in french production which affected demand for road transport. 2 132 redundant employees will receive a contribution of €5.1 million from europe to help them quickly get back into employment or training. this aid is in addition to the eur 6 million paid in 2015 for the redeployment of 2 513 former mory-ducros employees. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall support employees whose redundancies are due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, to the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or to a new global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in international trade, such as relocations or business closures. in this case, more than 2 000 former employees of the french shipping company mory global (formerly mory ducros) will benefit from eu aid to provide them with more support in their job search.
in writing. ‒ the land transport sector has suffered greatly from the crisis, and is particularly weakened in france, which has seen a large part of its physical production offshored in recent years. when the liquidation of the transport company moryglobal was announced, more than 2100 workers were left without jobs in april 2015. it is to help all these former employees to return to work that france has asked the european union for a contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf), which i voted for on 26 may 2016. the european parliament has given its approval for €5 million for vocational guidance and retraining, which will complement the occupational insurance contract financed by the french state. almost 20% of the workers concerned, in the 55-64 age group, are also considered to be particularly vulnerable to the risk of longterm unemployment and exclusion from the labour market. this is why they will be able to benefit from personalised services under the egf. the europe that protects is the one i have committed myself to. it is essential that it continues to play this role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves european aid of eur 5.1 million for 2 132 workers in the road transport sector in france. following the bankruptcy and closure of the road haulage and delivery services company, mory global, 2,132 employees lost their jobs. this european aid, paid under the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), will help former employees in their search for a new job by co-financing an employment training programme. appropriate training will enable former mory global employees to improve their employability. it is crucial that the european union has financial instruments and means such as the egf to respond quickly and effectively to economic situations of this magnitude.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a lever to help workers who are suffering from the effects of the globalised economy. the economic and financial crisis of 2008 had a profound impact on the european economy. road freight transport decreased by 13.7% in the european union and by 21% in france between 2007 and 2012 (eurostat). this economic downturn led to the bankruptcy and closure of moryglobal sas and the dismissal of its 2,132 employees. france therefore submitted a request to the commission for union aid. we voted in favour of allocating eur 5 146 800 to redundant workers. this amount is to be used to provide support such as group and individual information sessions, transition assistance and guidance towards new jobs. it's the least we can do for the workers at moryglobal. without the will to protect the european economy and jobs from the disastrous aspects of global competition and without the ability to combat relocations, assistance for reintegration into employment remains the last line of defence for workers.
in writing. ‒ following the redundancies following the liquidation of the french road transport company mory-global, france has requested assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund (€5.1 million) to reintegrate 2 132 redundant workers into the labour market. the french government argues that since the 2008 crisis, the road transport sector has shrunk by 14% in the european union and by 21% in france. at no point is there any reference to unfair competition through the posting of foreign workers to france and by road cabotage, which accounts for 10% of the transfer of goods in france. the application of the minimum wage to posted workers solves nothing since the average wage of french road hauliers is much higher. in addition, the difference in social contributions can be up to 30% of the cost of labour. the fund thus acts as a disincentive mechanism both for business leaders who can relocate more easily, but also for national governments who are afraid to confront the real problem of unfair competition. however, this is necessary to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers. i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim of the text is to mobilise eur 6.5 million to reintegrate into the labour market 557 workers made redundant by the greek supermarket larissa and to help 543 neets (young people without qualifications, training or employment). greece argues that its economy has been in a severe recession since 2008 and that consumption has fallen by 21 points. in addition, the austerity imposed on the greek people has drastically depressed domestic demand, thus affecting the retail sector. while this aid is a welcome development, it must not encourage the deflationary policies of external adjustment required by the very existence of the euro.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 557 workers following the liquidation of the greek company 'supermarket larissa', the greek authorities have requested €6.5 million to help reintegrate them into the labour market and to help 543 'neets' (young people without qualifications, training or employment). the company concerned was active in the retail sector. greece argues that its economy has been in a severe recession since 2008 and that consumption has fallen by 21 points. in addition, the austerity imposed on the greek people has drastically depressed domestic demand, thus affecting the retail sector. while this aid is a welcome development, it must not encourage the deflationary policies of external adjustment required by the very existence of the euro. however, it appears to be necessary for workers who have been made redundant, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund to the 577 workers at supermarket larissa. we know what the greeks have been suffering for several years now: the enslavement of the greek people by the troika, forced to sell their country to meet the austerity demands, makes this aid of 6.5 million euros seem like a poor compensation; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help 543 young people who are currently without a diploma or a job to find a new job. greece is unfortunately the model of what the european union and its murderous euro hold for us. the european globalisation adjustment fund is just the firebrand of the pyromaniac fireman.
in writing. ‒ this is the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for €6.5 million to help 557 dismissed workers reintegrate into the labour market and also to help 543 'neets' (young people without qualifications, training or employment). this aid, which appears to be necessary for workers made redundant, must not, however, encourage the deflationary policies of external adjustment required by the very existence of the euro. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to grant greece a financial contribution of eur 6.5 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to reintegrate into the labour market 557 employees who were made redundant following the liquidation of the greek retail company supermarket larissa. the fund has the merit of responding to the urgency of the situation, but it does not address the root causes of the deindustrialization which western countries have been facing since the 1980s. it would be essential to combat unfair international competition faced by our companies and to recover our monetary sovereignty in order to correct the existing differences in competitiveness within the euro area. as a good fireman, the european union is handing over our economies to the globalist world by removing almost all the tariff and non-tariff barriers that protect us from social and environmental dumping by emerging countries and then coming to the aid of our employees who have been laid off as a result of the closure of their companies. i voted in favour of this proposal, which provides an immediate response to the urgency of the situation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of the supermarket larissa in greece. the aid amount is eur 6.468.000. 577 redundant employees will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes the mobilisation of eur 6 468 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 557 women made redundant by the larissa supermarket in greece. the egf helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. this european instrument has a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020 and aims in particular to provide career guidance services. i have supported this report because i believe that the european union must help the declining sectors to move towards a competitive economic model.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to enable redundant workers to re-enter the labour market. since the redundancies are mainly due to the decline in the purchasing power of greek households, the egf must be mobilised for greece.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 557 workers following the liquidation of supermarket larissa, a greek company, the greek authorities have requested €6.5 million to help reintegrate them into the labour market and to help 543 neets (young people without qualifications, training or employment). such assistance must not have the effect of encouraging the deflationary policies of external adjustment required by the very existence of the euro. greece argues that its economy has been in a severe recession since 2008, due to a 21 percentage point decline in consumption. however, for pragmatic reasons, i voted in favour of this text which comes to the rescue of workers who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ vote for: necessary for workers who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ while the aid mentioned in the text is a step in the right direction, it must not encourage the deflationary policies of external adjustment required by the very existence of the euro. however, it appears to be necessary for redundant workers. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to mobilise, at the request of greece, the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of €6 468 000 to help greek workers made redundant by the supermarket larissa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the redundant workers of the 'supermarket larissa'. following the dismissal of 557 workers after the liquidation of the greek company, the greek authorities requested eur 6.5 million to help reintegrate them into the labour market and to help 543 neets (young people without qualifications, training or employment). the company concerned was active in the retail sector. greece argues that its economy has been in a severe recession since 2008 and that consumption has fallen by 21 points. in addition, the austerity imposed on the greek people has drastically depressed domestic demand, thus affecting the retail sector. while this aid is a welcome development, it must not encourage the deflationary policies of external adjustment required by the very existence of the euro. however, it appears to be necessary for redundant workers.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the commission is proposing to release €6.5 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 557 workers of supermarket larissa (a greek company) reintegrate into the labour market. the aid would also be extended to 543 neets (young people without a diploma, training or employment). indeed, the company in question, which specialised in retail sales, went bankrupt, a victim of the 2008 recession, which caused consumption in greece to fall by 21 points. although the aid requested increases deflationary policies of external adjustment, i do not think that the workers have suffered the consequences.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the report aims to unlock financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund of €6.5 million. this amount would be allocated to the 557 former employees who lost their jobs following the judicial liquidation of 'supermarket larissa' in greece. 543 neets (young people without qualifications, training or employment) would also benefit from these grants. we note that the european globalisation adjustment fund is only dealing with the consequences and not the causes of the massive job losses in europe. in this case, the inflexible austerity policy imposed on greece has resulted in an economic recession and a 21% contraction in consumption since 2008. despite these considerations, we are in favour of providing material aid to these people.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed that the globalisation adjustment fund should support the 557 employees made redundant following the bankruptcy of supermarket larissa. i am opposed in principle to the existence of this fund which only solves the problems in greece in the very short term. however, i think it is appropriate to help these workers. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is substantial aid needed to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed workers, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of the greek cooperative supermarket larissa, which was dismissed because of the greek crisis which drastically reduced the demand for food and drink from households. 557 dismissed employees and 543 unemployed young people who are not in education or training will receive €6.5 million to help them find employment. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall support employees whose redundancies are due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, to the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or to a new global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in international trade, such as relocations or business closures. in this case, more than 500 employees of the greek company supermarket larissa, which went bankrupt, will benefit from aid from the european union.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 557 workers following the liquidation of the greek company 'supermarket larissa', the greek authorities have requested €6.5 million to help reintegrate them into the labour market and to help 543 'neets' (young people without qualifications, training or employment). the company concerned was active in the retail sector. greece argues that its economy has been in a severe recession since 2008 and that consumption has fallen by 21 points. in addition, the austerity imposed on the greek people has drastically depressed domestic demand, thus affecting the retail sector. while this aid is a welcome development, it must not encourage the deflationary policies of external adjustment required by the very existence of the euro. however, it appears to be necessary for redundant workers. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of gianluca buonanno. the member, who was allegedly the victim of telephone threats received from an anonymous correspondent on his mobile phone number, has initiated criminal proceedings before the vercelli court. for the purposes of the investigation (access to telephone records) and for reasons of legal certainty, gianluca buonanno's immunity must be waived. i approved that request.
in writing. ‒ on 14 april 2015, gianluca buonanno was allegedly the victim of a threatening phone call received from an anonymous correspondent on his mobile phone number. mr buonanno then brought criminal proceedings before the vercelli court. for the purposes of the investigation, the deputy public prosecutor of the vercelli court submitted an application for permission to obtain from telephone companies data concerning the recordings of a number used by a member of the european parliament. the immunities of members of the european parliament and the constitution of the italian republic, which in article 68 makes any telephone tapping of a member subject to the authorisation of the chamber to which he belongs, must be taken into account. access to telephone records, as in this case, is treated as a telephone tapping. as a precaution, the deputy prosecutor of the vercelli court preferred to extend parliamentary privilege also to cases where the member is the alleged victim of a crime. this request for waiver of immunity will allow the author of the threats to which mr buonanno has been subjected to be unmasked and brought to justice. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of my colleague enl buonanno because it will shed light on the author of the telephone threats to the italian mep. in order to find out who was threatening him, mr buonanno brought criminal proceedings before the vercelli court; the deputy prosecutor must be able to obtain data on the number used by the member of the european parliament in order to carry out his investigation. it is therefore in his interest and in the interest of justice that the immunity be waived. this request is also in accordance with article 68 of the italian constitution.
in writing. ‒ gianluca buonanno, an italian mep, has filed a criminal complaint with the vercelli court after receiving verbal threats from an anonymous correspondent on his mobile phone. for the purposes of the investigation, the deputy prosecutor of the court submitted a request for permission to obtain from the telephone companies data concerning recordings for a number used by a member of the european parliament. the rapporteur, although the waiver of his parliamentary immunity is not essential to obtain this data, considers it appropriate to have access to it as a precautionary measure in order to unmask and prosecute the author of these threats. i therefore voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of gianluca buonanno.
in writing. ‒ on 14 april 2015, gianluca buonanno, an italian mep, was allegedly the victim of a threatening phone call from an anonymous correspondent on his mobile phone number. mr buonanno then brought criminal proceedings before the vercelli court. for the purposes of the investigation, the deputy prosecutor of the court sent a request for authorisation to obtain from telephone operators data relating to recordings of a number used by the member of the european parliament. although this request for waiver of immunity is not essential, the report considers it appropriate, for reasons of legal certainty, to grant mr buonanno's request for waiver of immunity as a precautionary measure. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this request for waiver of immunity will allow the author of the threats against mr buonanno to be unmasked and brought to justice.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of immunity will allow the author of the threats to which mr buonanno has been subjected to be unmasked and brought to justice. i naturally voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of gianluca buonanno. on 14 april 2015, he received a threatening phone call from an anonymous correspondent on his mobile phone number. mr. buonanno then filed a criminal complaint. for the purposes of the investigation, the deputy public prosecutor of the vercelli court submitted an application for permission to obtain from telephone companies data concerning the recordings of a number used by a member of the european parliament. access to telephone records, as in this case, is treated as a telephone tapping. as a precaution, the deputy prosecutor of the vercelli court preferred to extend parliamentary privilege also to cases where the member is the alleged victim of a crime. the report considers that this request for waiver of immunity is not necessary to obtain access to the data concerning gianluca buonanno's telephone communications, but for reasons of legal certainty, the report considers it appropriate to grant access to mr buonanno's request for waiver of immunity on a precautionary basis.
in writing. - i voted for this report. gianluca buonanno was allegedly the victim of anonymous phone threats on 14 april 2015. the deputy prosecutor of the vercelli court wants to process the phone records for the investigation. access to these records would be tantamount to a wiretap. the statute of meps and article 68 of the italian constitution require that any telephone tapping of a member of the european parliament be subject to prior authorisation by the parliamentary chamber concerned. the report therefore calls for the parliamentary immunity of gianluca buonanno to be waived. this procedure is probably an excessive legal rigorism since gianluca buonanno is the complainant in this case. this reservation does not prevent us from granting this request, which is necessary for the progress of the investigation.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of immunity follows threats made by telephone to gianluca buonanno. this procedure should make it possible to identify the anonymous perpetrator of such acts by means of eavesdropping. the rapporteur considered it superfluous to give rise to a waiver of the parliamentarian's immunity, but as a legal precaution he proposed to comply with the request. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of immunity will allow the author of the threats to which mr buonanno has been subjected to be unmasked and tried, so there is no reason to oppose it.
in writing. - i voted in favor of this request for waiver of immunity. this request was made by the member concerned himself in order to enable him to act in a judicial procedure. it was also supported by the competent committee of the european parliament, whose recommendation i followed.
‒ 'we have been asked to give a ruling on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of gianluca buonanno. following the opinion of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament, and since mr buonanno himself is in favour of the waiver of this immunity so that the italian authorities can investigate in his favour, i gave my consent to the waiver of this immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 14 april 2015, gianluca buonanno was allegedly the victim of a threatening phone call received from an anonymous correspondent on his mobile phone number. mr buonanno then brought criminal proceedings before the vercelli court. for the purposes of the investigation, the deputy public prosecutor of the vercelli court submitted an application for permission to obtain from telephone companies data concerning the recordings of a number used by a member of the european parliament. this request for waiver of immunity will allow the author of the threats to which mr buonanno has been subjected to be unmasked and brought to justice. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of sweden. the text establishes provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. after welcoming more than 170,000 asylum seekers in one month, sweden has formally requested the suspension of its obligations to distribute migrants within the european union, while the swedish government has systematically encouraged and facilitated mass immigration. if i am obviously opposed to the distribution of migrants within the european union, a system which is not working and which seriously undermines the sovereignty of the member states, i am opposed to other states such as france taking in migrants whom sweden is no longer able to take in. the only way to find a lasting solution to this crisis is to let the nations manage their migration policy and to establish, with the gulf monarchies, humanitarian camps in the areas from which these migrants depart.
in writing. ‒ the council has introduced provisional measures on international protection for sweden, which has formally requested the suspension of its obligations due to the dual challenge of being a country of first arrival and a country of final destination; in march 2016, sweden received a total of 170 104 asylum seekers, including 73 331 children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors, who have special needs and require additional resources for access to healthcare, decent housing and education, in accordance with union asylum rules. we have always opposed the eu's policy of distributing migrants. it is not working and it is contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of nations. there is no point in introducing provisional measures to deal with the problems of the common asylum and immigration policy. the member states must be given the power to develop their own policies in this area. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ i rejected not only the commission's proposal, the libe report, but also the amendments tabled to that report and the rejection amendment. the latter was a disgraceful attempt by the left to force all member states, regardless of their particular situation, to respect the eu's migrant quotas, without any possibility of provisional measures. however, sweden has already taken in a total of 170 104 asylum seekers, including 73 331 children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors who obviously require special measures and in particular additional resources, for example, for access to health care. the motion for a resolution tabled by the left once again proves that behind its so-called 'humanism' there is a cold logic and a desire for mass immigration which is beyond any real principle. the commission proposal is also unsatisfactory, however, since it would merely 'shift' the problem, since it envisages 'relocating' these migrants to another member state. further proof that the eu's handling of the migration crisis is disastrous and has the most serious consequences, both for the migrants themselves and for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the eu's policy of distributing migrants. it is not working and it is contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of nations. there is no point in introducing provisional measures to deal with the problems of the common asylum and immigration policy. the member states must be given the power to develop their own policies in this area. i voted against the motion for a resolution because the signatories are actually demanding that all member states respect the quotas of migrants imposed by the eu, without any provisional measures. i also voted against the motion for a resolution which supports the commission's motion.
in writing. ‒ after welcoming more than 170 000 asylum seekers in one month, sweden has formally requested the suspension of its obligations regarding the distribution of migrants within the european union. the swedish government is literally overwhelmed by the massive influx of migrants and is suffering the consequences of its lax migration policy. since the beginning of the war in syria, sweden has consistently encouraged and facilitated the arrival of these illegal migrants. i opposed this request because other member states of the european union, such as france, will have to take in migrants that sweden can no longer take in. it is time to find a lasting solution to the migration crisis by co-financing with the gulf monarchies the construction of humanitarian camps in the countries of origin of these migrants. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has voted in favour of the council's decision to suspend sweden's obligations to relocate migrants for one year. the objective is to help sweden better cope with the emergency situation of a large influx of third-country nationals on its territory. in 2015, sweden received the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita. the own-initiative report calls for the withdrawal of the european commission's proposal, noting that the situation of asylum seekers has deteriorated more sharply in italy and greece than in sweden. i think that this situation has created unprecedented difficulties for the swedish asylum system, and i voted in favour of this report and supported the council's decision.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i wanted to express my solidarity with sweden, which in 2015 received the highest number of applicants for international protection per capita in europe. in order to help sweden to better manage this situation, which puts a heavy strain on its reception capacity, the report allows for the suspension of the country's obligations regarding the relocation of refugees within the eu for one year, as well as the provision of operational support by specialised agencies if necessary.
in writing. ‒ sweden has formally requested the suspension of its obligations under council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601 because of the dual migration challenge it faces: sweden is a country of first arrival but also of final destination. in march 2016, the country said it had received 170,104 asylum seekers, including 73,331 children, including 36,181 unaccompanied minors. with or without provisional measures, we are opposed to the eu's policy of distributing migrants. it is irresponsible and violates the principle of national sovereignty. finally, the swedish position is hypocritical in that successive swedish governments have systematically encouraged and facilitated mass immigration. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we are opposed to the eu's policy of distributing migrants.
in writing. ‒ we have always opposed the eu's policy of distributing migrants. it is not working and it is contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of nations. there is no point in introducing provisional measures to deal with the problems of the common asylum and immigration policy. the member states must be given the power to develop their own policies in this area. i therefore vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to grant sweden a one-year suspension of its obligations under the european union's relocation programme. this is an exceptional provisional measure, which is explained by the emergency situation in sweden, which is experiencing the highest increase in the number of applicants for international protection per capita in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on interim measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of sweden. the swedish government's position is hypocritical, as successive governments in sweden have systematically encouraged and facilitated mass immigration. now he is asking for interim measures regarding his quota of migrants. if sweden does not meet its quota of migrants, they will be relocated elsewhere in the european union. i have always opposed the eu's policy of distributing migrants. it is not working and it is contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of nations. there is no point in introducing provisional measures to deal with the problems of the common asylum and immigration policy. the member states must be given the power to develop their own policies in this area.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to temporarily suspend the obligation to relocate migrants to sweden, which is the responsibility of each member state. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european asylum support office. the difficulties caused by mass immigration are the basis for a very hypocritical argument, which has been encouraged by successive swedish governments. it is therefore unacceptable to vote in favour of this text and to relieve sweden of the consequences of its immigration policies. moreover, states must be able to control their territories and set their own immigration policies, in the name of their sovereignty. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative resolution, the committee's proposal, the amendments and the motion for rejection. this report concerns decisions 2015/1523 and 2015/1601 establishing provisional measures in favour of italy and greece in response to the influx of migrants. sweden received a total of 170 104 asylum seekers in march 2016. it therefore wishes to benefit from provisional measures suspending its reception obligations. we would not be able to support the swedish government. the council has always advocated the acceptance of migrants by the member states through the introduction of quotas. so this turn of events is inappropriate. in addition, the return of migrants by sweden will lead to their relocation to other member states. nor do we support the motion for rejection of the swedish request, tabled by 40 members. this motion calls for strict application of migrant quotas to the member states. clearly, the european union's migration policy is at an impasse. it is urgent to return to the states their prerogatives in immigration control.
in writing. ‒ this is a text calling for the distribution of immigrants in europe, to alleviate sweden, which has welcomed these populations in turn (170 000 in march). more than 40 meps have demonstrated to force member states to accept quotas. i am opposed to this text, firstly because the commission has nothing to impose on the member states and secondly because this allocation does not work. finally, sweden has supported highly unreasonable migration policies and these steps only bind sweden. i therefore voted against these texts.
in writing. ‒ the eu's principle of quotas for the distribution of migrants is odious. it is not working, and it is contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of nations. there is no point in introducing provisional measures to deal with the problems of the common asylum and immigration policy. the member states must be given the power to develop their own policies in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to allow sweden, overwhelmed by the influx of migrants, to temporarily escape its obligations in the field of migration policy. last year, sweden was the member state with the highest number of asylum seekers per capita. in march 2016, it received a total of 170 104 applicants, including 73 331 children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors. i opposed an amendment by the greens which proposed that sweden should not be granted these emergency measures.
in writing. ‒ like many eu countries, sweden has been faced with a massive influx of migrants to its territory. in one year, the number of asylum seekers in the country increased by 60%, which led to a deterioration in reception conditions and in fact a deterioration in the functioning of the asylum application system in sweden. for these reasons i voted in favour of the interim measures on international protection for sweden to adapt to the reality of the situation in the country. the way to deal with this migrant crisis is to be pragmatic and not dogmatic.
in writing. ‒ sweden is the eu country that receives the most asylum seekers and refugees in proportion to its population. that member state has requested a temporary derogation from the commission in order not to implement its relocation obligations for one year. the aim of this interim measure is to enable the swedish authorities to rebuild their reception capacities (in particular in the fields of education, health and housing), in order to be able to fully meet their european commitments. sweden has no intention of stopping receiving people in need of international protection, especially as asylum seekers and many unaccompanied minors arrive in sweden every day outside the framework of relocation measures. i have decided to vote in favour of the commission's proposal to grant this temporary derogation. it would be incomprehensible to punish one of the few countries in the union which already hosts a large number of refugees and which wants to receive more, but under better conditions, while other member states continue to shamefully refuse to fulfil their obligations to receive and to trample on calls for solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the libe committee adopted a report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of sweden. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. in march 2016, sweden received a total of 170 104 asylum seekers, including 73 331 children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors, who have special needs and require additional resources for access to healthcare, decent housing and education, in accordance with union asylum rules. the swedish government's position is hypocritical, because successive governments in sweden have systematically encouraged and facilitated mass immigration. if sweden does not meet its quota of migrants, they will be relocated elsewhere in the european union. i have always opposed the eu's policy of distributing migrants. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ sweden is the country that has taken in the most refugees in recent months in proportion to its population and this is what the swedish government is using today to ask to suspend its participation in the relocation mechanism for asylum seekers from greece and italy to other states. the commission rejected this request and came back with a compromise: to suspend this mechanism for one year. the rapporteur, ska keller, first proposed a straightforward rejection of this temporary exemption but this was not adopted in the vote in the libe committee. since the beginning of this humanitarian 'crisis', i have been insisting that the member states should show solidarity as demanded by the citizens of europe. the latter must stop focusing on national interests and take responsibility for the urgency of the situation, and this should continue to concern sweden. granting it an exemption would send the wrong signal to the other member states, which would refuse any effort at solidarity. the gue/ngl tabled an amendment rejecting this exemption which was not adopted. i therefore voted against this resolution, which takes up the commission's compromise proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the negotiations on the transatlantic treaty between the european union and the united states, the issue of the protection of europeans' personal data is more than ever at the centre of the debate. however, in its judgment of 6 october 2015, the court of justice of the european union annulled the commission's decision on the adequacy of the levels of protection provided by the safe harbour principles, published by the us department of commerce. the commission and the us government have mentioned a 'privacy shield', but the joint resolution which tends to support this idea seems optimistic about the possibility of getting the americans to change their minds on this point. i therefore supported the first resolution which criticises the lack of provisions on privacy. i voted against the final motion for a resolution, which only deals with principles and considerations in very general terms and does not require sufficient guarantees. the protection of our citizens' personal data is paramount.
in writing. ‒ this joint resolution was tabled by the epp, the socialists, the liberals and the ecr and efdd groups. in its judgment of 6 october 2015, the court of justice of the european union annulled the commission's decision on the appropriateness of the levels of protection provided by the safe harbour principles published by the us department of commerce. the commission and the us government must make substantial improvements to the privacy shield. the joint resolution is based on this principle and supports the process. it has a lot of positive points, but it seems optimistic about the possibility of moving americans. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the right to education is respected. we are in favour of a maximum level of data protection and the privacy of our citizens, so we support the greens' text. the greens' motion was rejected, so i voted against the joint motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the green group and against the resolution jointly tabled by the other political groups on the transatlantic flow of data. the greens' resolution has the merit of being more demanding in terms of the protection of personal data. the commission has not provided any evidence that the united states has taken the necessary measures to ensure that the data subject's rights are protected. the court thus invalidated the commission's decision on the adequacy of the levels of protection provided by the safe harbour principles published by the us department of commerce. the joint resolution tabled by the other political groups seems to me to be the most optimistic on the ability of the americans to improve this level of protection.
in writing. ‒ in the transatlantic negotiations between the european union and the united states, the issue of the level of protection of our citizens' personal data has never been more topical. however, by a judgment of 6 october 2015, the court of justice of the european union annulled the decision of the european commission to recognise the appropriateness of the levels of protection provided by the us department of state to trade. the court has asked the commission to make substantial improvements in the privacy shield. if we supported the first motion for a resolution which very strongly criticised the inadequacy of the provisions on data protection, we cannot support the following which merely lists too general considerations without requiring sufficient guarantees, particularly on the extinction clause. i voted against the final motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the us/eu privacy shield will protect the data and fundamental rights of european citizens while providing legal certainty for businesses. this last element is of paramount importance for smes, which are often more vulnerable because of their size. the privacy shield is intended to replace the security area decision which was invalidated in 2015 by the court of justice of the european union because it did not provide optimal protection of the data of european citizens. the resolution welcomes the efforts made by the european and us authorities to considerably improve the protection of the fundamental rights of european citizens in the decision. the text recognises the need to establish a legal framework for the protection of personal data between the united states and the european union. however, care must be taken to ensure that the agreement does not compromise the interests of european businesses and smes and protects european citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament votes in favour of the 'privacy shield', a new agreement on the exchange of data between the united states and the european union. following the judgment of the court of justice of 6 october 2015 finding the european commission's level of data protection to be insufficient, a new agreement has been proposed to better protect the privacy of european citizens whose data is transferred to the united states for commercial purposes. this resolution stresses the importance of transatlantic relations and respect for the right to data protection, including personal data. i voted in favour of this resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution because it met the expectations of my political group. the data flows between the united states and the european union are the largest in the world. while emphasising the importance of providing strong safeguards for the protection of personal data, it is essential to provide legal certainty to companies, especially smes, that transfer data from the european union to the united states. we call on the european commission, however, to continue discussions with the us authorities to make the necessary improvements so that this agreement fully meets all our expectations.
in writing. ‒ a new agreement requires the commission and the us government to make substantial improvements to the 'privacy shield'. it replaces the "safe harbour" agreement between the eu and the us, which was intended to protect the data of european citizens, even when it is handled by us companies outside europe. both parties must also take into account existing provisions such as the charter, the directive, the general data protection regulation and the judgments of the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights. for these reasons, i supported this text, which is in favour of a maximum level of data protection and the privacy of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the greens' resolution expresses concern that the 'privacy shield' mechanism cannot fully meet the obligations of the charter, the directive, the general data protection regulation and the judgments of the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights. from that point of view, it seemed quite right that i should be in favour of it. i voted for the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution which deals with the privacy shield agreement allowing the transfer of personal data from europe to the united states. the privacy shield was negotiated after the previous agreement, the safe harbor, was invalidated in 2015 by the court of justice of the european union. it is particularly urgent to reach a new agreement to guarantee legal certainty for our companies, while strengthening the safeguards for respecting the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the privacy shield agreement allowing the transfer of personal data from europe to the united states, which was negotiated after the invalidation of the safe harbor agreement by the court of justice of the european union in its judgment of 6 october 2015. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is very important to reach a new agreement quickly in order to guarantee legal certainty for our companies, while at the same time strengthening the guarantees relating to the respect of the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on transatlantic data flows. even if it sets out the right principles and considerations, it does not seem to me to be convincing enough about the us' willingness to comply with european rules on the protection of personal data of french and european citizens. i would remind you that the court of justice of the european union has invalidated the commission's decision on the adequacy of the levels of protection provided by the safe harbour principles published by the us department of commerce. the court stated in its judgment that an adequate level of protection in a third country is understood to be 'substantially equivalent' to the protection offered in the union, which is not the case in the united states. the commission and the us government therefore need to make substantial improvements in the privacy shield compared to the security area decision. i do not share the optimism expressed in the joint resolution. that is why i supported the green resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this text. i believe that the privacy of our citizens must be protected to the fullest extent possible. i am therefore fundamentally opposed to the vote on the transatlantic data flow. in 2015, the european commission accepted the level of privacy protection provided by the us department of commerce. it turns out that it is very insufficient, which is why the european court of justice disagreed with it in a judgment of 6 october 2015. the text follows the position of the legal body but calls on the commission and the us department to find an adequate level of protection for private data. as such, it encourages the global sharing of our citizens' data.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution, but for the resolution and the amendments of the greens. the joint resolution was tabled by the epp, the socialists, the liberals and the ecr and efdd groups. it follows the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 6 october 2015. the commission's decision on the adequacy of the levels of protection of personal data established by the us department of commerce was annulled. the commission and the us government must therefore amend the privacy shield in line with this court ruling. the resolution is in line with this. it is very optimistic that a common ground with the united states can be reached quickly. we support the resolution and the amendments of the greens, who are concerned about the discrepancies between the 'privacy shield' and the obligations of the charter, the directive and the general regulation on the protection of personal data. our position in favour of maximum protection of personal data is therefore in line with that of the greens.
in writing. ‒ the european court of justice ruled against the commission's decision on the levels of protection provided as defined by the safe harbour principles published by the us department of commerce. the united states is not at the same level as the european union. but we would have to be accommodated in the same hotel for the arrangement to be timely. the green motion for a resolution on this subject is more circumspect, given the optimism surrounding the us commitment. they're looking to impose more collateral on the deal. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this text is in favour of better protection of privacy, so i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the privacy shield agreement, which allows the transfer of personal data from europe to the united states, an agreement negotiated after the invalidation of the safe harbor agreement by the court of justice of the european union in 2015. the privacy shield agreement was necessary to provide greater legal certainty for european companies, while strengthening the safeguards for the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european commission to continue its negotiations with the united states to improve the legal framework for transatlantic flows of personal data for commercial purposes. the 'confidentiality shield' is still flawed, as are certain provisions which do not meet the 'necessity' and 'proportionality' criteria of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it should be remembered that the member states of the european union have the possibility to suspend any transfer of data in the event of complaints from citizens. two years after the implementation of the new european data protection regulation, it is important to remember that the european parliament's action is primarily aimed at protecting the citizens of each country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the privacy shield agreement, which allows the transfer of personal data from europe to the united states and was negotiated after the invalidation of the safe harbor agreement by the court of justice of the european union on 6 october 2015. the commission is therefore requesting the united states to provide additional information on the transfer of personal data to the united states. concrete and effective responses are needed to ensure legal certainty for our businesses, while strengthening the safeguards for respecting the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ in its judgment of 6 october 2015, the court of justice of the european union annulled the commission's decision on the adequacy of the levels of protection provided by the safe harbour principles, published by the us department of commerce. the court stated in its judgment that an adequate level of protection in a third country is understood to be 'substantially equivalent' to the protection offered in the union, which is not the case in the united states. the commission and the us government therefore need to make substantial improvements in the privacy shield compared to the security area decision. the joint resolution is based on this principle and supports the process. it has many positive points, but it seems overly optimistic about the possibility of moving americans. i am in favour of a maximum level of data protection and privacy for our citizens. i therefore voted against this text because some important amendments tabled were not adopted.
in writing. ‒ in the "schrems" case, the court of justice of the european union invalidated the "safe harbor" agreement between the european union and the united states in 2015 regarding the exchange of data between the united states and the european union, considering that it did not provide sufficient protection for european citizens. the european commission has therefore presented a new agreement called the "privacy shield" which is supposed to fill the legislative gap. the new european data protection regulation which has just been adopted to replace the 1995 data protection directive is even stricter than the previous one. the us legal framework is therefore still far from providing equivalent protection... the joint resolution, unsurprisingly, welcomes the negotiations with the united states. however, the court of justice's requirements have not been fully taken into account: the united states has not made legally binding commitments, mass surveillance is still possible... the agreement thus falls far short of expectations in terms of data protection, and shows little progress compared to safe harbor, and the majority of the european parliament refuses to press for an attempt to improve it. we're dealing with a real game of fools that i refuse to endorse. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ privatization, competition and deregulation which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation of the energy sector are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for increasingly expensive energy, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which has as its sole purpose the privatisation of energy. while it may be a good idea to encourage alternative energy production models, such as self-generation or cooperative production, it is regrettable that the host of standards decided by brussels in this regard is in reality primarily aimed at depriving states of their energy sovereignty. the report emphasizes the change of supplier, which clearly aims to put an end to state monopolies, even where they are beneficial to consumers, especially in terms of infrastructure investment. what is politely called 'liberalisation' of the energy sector may in fact lead to individuals and companies paying more for energy, to the benefit of the multinationals with comfortable margins.
in writing. ‒ the privatisation, competition and deregulation of the energy sector advocated in this report are likely to lead to individuals and companies paying for energy at increasingly high prices, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacity. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the draft report aims to deepen the separation between energy producers and distributors in order to complete the liberalisation of the energy market: privatisation, competition and price deregulation. although the text mentions self-production, i.e. households' energy independence, and the distribution of smart meters that allow for better management of electricity consumption, the fundamental objective of this text is to definitively break the last monopolies in energy production and distribution, which is likely to lead to a sharp rise in consumer prices, which is very damaging to the purchasing power of taxpayers. i voted against this draft report.
in writing. ‒ a rethinking of the way we consume energy is a necessity in our time. to do this we must inform european citizens of their energy options and provide incentives for them to consume in an economical and environmentally friendly way. we need a more decentralised, flexible energy system, as much as possible geared towards renewable energy. however, it should be borne in mind that the energy transition requires an adaptation period so that all actors involved can adjust to the new recommendations. we must combine environmental protection with the economic competitiveness of european enterprises. consumers are at the heart of this energy transition and we must also help them to adapt to these new standards. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report welcomes the european commission's communication and stresses the need to move from a centralised and rigid energy system to a decentralised, flexible and renewable energy system. considering that the energy market needs to be reformed to promote sustainable and renewable energy in order to respond to economic and environmental challenges, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on a 'new deal for energy consumers'. the transition from a centralised energy system to a more decentralised system based on renewable energy is necessary. this transition would eventually lead to an economy based mainly on renewable energy. to achieve this, it is important to change our energy consumption habits.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there is a need to move from a centralised and rigid energy system to a more decentralised, flexible and renewable energy-based system. that is why i voted in favour of the griffin report entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers'. i believe that we need to help consumers take ownership of the energy transition, produce their own energy and become more energy efficient. finally, by voting in favour of this text, we committed ourselves to preventing energy poverty, in particular through the 'energy efficiency principle' which gives priority to energy savings and measures that affect demand rather than supply.
in writing. ‒ with a view to contributing to the progressive orientation of the energy union legislation currently being reworked, i supported the report by my colleague theresa griffin. this resolution makes progress in three areas. on management, it defends collective purchasing systems (particularly in apartment buildings) and encourages self-production and self-consumption by calling for the reduction of administrative barriers. on price transparency, it provides for easy and quick access to consumption and related cost data and measures to enable consumers to compare different offers and switch suppliers without paying extravagant termination fees. the priority given to energy efficiency by the eu requires social tariffs adapted to situations of energy poverty and that aid granted for self-production benefits above all the poorest, which is far from the case. finally, on this report, i supported an amendment to recognise, in this context, the status of 'common good' for the energy question, so that it will never be confiscated for the benefit of a few.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the third energy package, which has been aimed at liberalising the energy market since 2009 in particular: privatisation, competition and price deregulation. the fundamental objective is to put an end to state monopolies. however, it is not clear that price deregulation necessarily benefits the consumer in the long run. moreover, this policy does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation in this sector, which may lead to increasingly expensive energy for the benefit of multinational oligopolies. finally, it is up to each member state to define its energy policy and to ensure the necessary investments for the development or maintenance of infrastructure, especially when it has opted for nuclear energy. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: privatisation, competition and deregulation of the energy sector are likely to lead to individuals and companies paying for increasingly expensive energy.
in writing. ‒ are good ideas being undermined by utopias that are dangerous for consumers, especially the big consumers, our industries, who will be the first to suffer from the end of long-term energy policy and regulated tariffs? privatization, competition and deregulation - which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation of the energy sector - are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for increasingly expensive energy, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities. that is why i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for further efforts to achieve the energy transition towards a more decentralised, energy-efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system. the text also contains practical recommendations for the development of a genuinely competitive and consumer-friendly retail energy market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers'. the fundamental objective of european policy remains to break up what remains of state monopolies. in addition to the fact that it has not been established that price deregulation necessarily benefits the consumer in the long term, it is for each member state to define its energy policy and to ensure the necessary investments for the development or maintenance of infrastructure, especially when nuclear power has been chosen. privatization, competition and deregulation - which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation - of the energy sector are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for energy at increasingly high prices, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the process of liberalising the energy market, and more particularly the third energy package. basically, it dissociates the producers and the distributors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the public authorities. some measures are relevant, such as decentralisation of energy production, which would make it easier for individuals or local authorities to install solar panels or other energy generators. it also stressed the importance of transparency and energy efficiency, which are essential principles for the functioning of the market. however, these positive aspects are clouded by the overall liberalising intention of the text, which carries many risks. the state monopoly remains fundamental in this sector, in particular to guarantee the stability of nuclear energy. i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this report. despite several interesting proposals, notably on proactive consumers, self-consumption, decentralisation and the introduction of 'smart meters', the substance of the report clearly aims to deprive member states of a little more sovereignty in energy policy, something we are opposed to. it is essential that the state can retain some control over the arrangements to be made in two areas which are often neglected by the private sector: long-term investment and maintenance. these two areas are of particular importance in highly nuclear-armed states such as france, where the nuclear arsenal is the largest in the world. privatization, competition and deregulation can also lead to higher prices.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the third energy package which separates producers and distributors in order to make the market more liberal. the text has some good proposals; he insists on self-production and cooperative production. this opens up interesting prospects for self-reliance for individuals. the report, however, seeks to dismantle the remaining monopoly prerogatives of the state. i believe that it is the state's responsibility to decide its energy policy, especially in the nuclear field. it is also not certain that the liberalization which is being sought as a successor will benefit the consumer. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ privatisation, competition and deregulation in the energy sector will lead to individuals and companies paying for energy at increasingly high prices, ensuring comfortable margins for multinational oligopolies at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the grid and production capacities, so i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls for the establishment of a more efficient and consumer-friendly european energy market. the report proposes a set of concrete measures to achieve this objective: more frequent and more transparent bills, a single energy shop, the implementation of price comparison tools, facilities for changing suppliers, etc.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the preparation of the energy union legislation to be presented by the european commission, i have supported this text which calls for strengthening the power of consumers in the energy market in europe. in the light of the central objective of combating energy poverty, it will be important in the coming years to promote collective energy purchasing, the emergence of new price comparison tools for consumers and the possibility of changing energy suppliers and thus tariffs more easily.
in writing. in line with the eu's energy transition objective, this report aims to strengthen the position of energy consumers in europe. more specifically, it is a question of improving transparency, information and consumer protection against abusive, anti-competitive and unfair practices (clearer invoices and contracts, tools for comparing offers and prices, smart meters, etc.). in this respect, the report emphasizes the place and central role played by consumers (both household and industrial), under the terms "prosumers" or "consumers". in the end, the benefits for citizens would be many: greater transparency in the choice of energy offers with increased competition between them, financial gains due to the optimisation of their energy consumption, greater energy efficiency in general, and a much more environmentally friendly consumption. finally, the need for the union to strengthen its policies to combat energy poverty was recalled, and finally to establish a common legal framework for energy self-production and self-consumption. in line with these political lines, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. citizens and consumers remain at the heart of the energy transition and must be supported in this perspective. the commission and the member states must fully implement the third energy package, including our various proposals for domestic consumers. we are calling for more clarity in energy bills and for more transparency in bills and contracts. consumers also need to be better informed about the offers available. better comparison of consumer offers is needed through independent, up-to-date and understandable price comparison tools. in addition, national legislation must guarantee consumers the right to change suppliers quickly, easily and free of charge. finally, the fight against energy poverty is also a major issue. access to affordable energy must be considered a fundamental social right on which a common definition of energy poverty will be based. we also stress the importance of social tariffs that are well adapted to protect low-income and vulnerable citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new energy deal for consumers. the report calls for consumers to exercise more power in the energy market. this involves introducing new management models, minimising administrative barriers to self-production capacity and creating favourable conditions and incentives for collective self-production for europeans living in buildings. on the other hand, it is crucial that energy prices are more transparent. in this sense, energy bills must be more frequent and more legible; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. finally, the possibility of changing energy suppliers and tariffs more easily must be strengthened. i supported this resolution because it calls for addressing the root causes of energy poverty, and thus allocating eu funds more efficiently to energy efficiency and self-production aid for energy-poor consumers. the resolution aims to feed into the energy union legislation to be presented shortly by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the third set of measures on energy, which aims in particular to dissociate energy producers and distributors in order to further liberalise the market: privatisation, competition and price deregulation. despite some positive aspects of the text, the fundamental objective remains to break what remains of state monopolies. it is, however, up to each member state to define its energy policy and to ensure the necessary investments for the development or maintenance of infrastructure - especially when nuclear power has been chosen. the good ideas are thus undermined by utopias which are dangerous for consumers, especially for the big consumers, our industries, who will be the first to suffer from the end of longterm energy policy and regulated tariffs. privatization, competition and deregulation - which does not exclude a very restrictive bureaucratic over-regulation - of the energy sector are likely to lead both individuals and companies to pay for energy at increasingly high prices, providing multinational oligopolies with comfortable margins at the expense of the most vulnerable and at the expense of investments in the network and production capacities. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this proposal for a european parliament resolution on poverty: a gender perspective. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. this mixture of situations which have nothing to do with each other shows at the outset a great lack of rigor in the rapporteur's approach. moreover, the solutions envisaged are very imprecise and based on the fight against discrimination (especially in favour of women migrants) without proposing solutions against the effects of austerity policies, especially in highly feminized jobs, the development of single-parent families, poverty in rural areas, part-time work... the text here merely asks the states and the union to finance projects, and thus to increase spending, to strengthen the already numerous anti-discrimination legislation or to put men at home. it therefore considers that this text is not likely to improve the situation of women.
in writing. ‒ the effects of austerity policies, particularly in highly female-dominated jobs (personal services), the development of single-parent families, rural poverty, part-time work are considered in the report, but the solutions envisaged are limited to asking states and the union to finance projects, and thus increase spending, strengthen already plentiful anti-discrimination legislation or put men in the home. for all these reasons, this report is not likely to improve the situation of women. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have firmly rejected this text, which is yet another insult to women, who are reduced to the status of eternal victims unable to cope on their own. the rapporteur cannot even provide a concrete framework for what is defined as women in poverty: single mothers, migrants, lesbians, it is a succession of minority categories which is in reality very reductive for women. the text also fails to mention the real problems - and thus to propose concrete and viable solutions - as regards the harm caused by austerity policies or globalisation, which has led to the desertification of rural areas and thus to the precariousness of the inhabitants of these areas. finally, i will always be amazed at the hypocrisy of some well-meaning feminists who condemn the so-called patriarchal model persisting in our societies, but never question mass immigration, which, very often, concerns people from the most patriarchal culture. i am not sure that the solution to the precarious situation of women lies in the overregulation of 'anti-discriminatory' standards or the application of gender theory, as the report proposes.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for improving the situation of women by combating discrimination, particularly in favour of migrants and ethnic, religious and sexual minorities. also, while encouraging the permissiveness of migration, the report blames the "patriarchy". the solutions envisaged are to ask the states and the eu to finance the projects. this requires increased spending and the strengthening of already extensive anti-discrimination legislation. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report uses the poverty of women as a pretext to call for stronger legislation to combat discrimination and to advocate gender theory. however, the real causes of women's poverty and/or social and physical insecurity lie elsewhere. firstly, they are the result of austerity policies which affect certain categories of jobs which are fairly feminized, such as those in personal services, austerity policies which are directly imposed by the european commission. but what shows a complete disconnect between the content of the motion for a resolution and the reality of women's condition is the denunciation of a so-called 'patriarchy' which is structuring our contemporary societies, while behaviour of another age, often caused by migrants, is not mentioned in the text. for all these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against poverty is a key objective of the european union in the europe 2020 strategy. it is clear that there is a gender dimension to this phenomenon. in fact, worldwide, more than 65 million women live in poverty, compared with 57 million men. this difference may be explained by the persistent inequalities between men and women, particularly in terms of work and role within the family structure. too often women are discriminated against in relation to men in accessing a profession. this is just one example of the many discriminations faced by women. the report explains that gender inequalities can lead to a greater propensity for poverty among women than among men and that these inequalities must therefore be addressed. that is the main message of this report. i therefore voted in favour of this report, even though i do not agree with some of the points in it.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report looks at the root causes of poverty among women in the european union. according to the rapporteur, the poverty of women is caused by stereotypes about women in the workplace, by the gender pay gap and by the imbalance between private and professional life. recognising the importance of the principle of equality between men and women, i abstained on this report, however, with my colleagues from the epp group, considering that a number of references to tax policies or minimum income were contrary to the principle of subsidiarity of the member states.
in writing. i supported this report which highlights, beyond the fundamental fight for gender equality, two important battles i am fighting within the intergroup common goods/public services : the one for taking into account the difficulties and isolation in which many women in rural areas find themselves; the one that involves the defence and promotion of public services, a powerful vehicle for reducing inequalities between men and women. the economic crisis and austerity policies have exacerbated inequalities and particularly affected women, exacerbating situations of poverty and exclusion from the labour market. in addition to the fact that there is a high probability of poverty being transmitted over several generations, this report highlights the importance of education and social security systems and childcare (for children and the elderly) in curbing situations of women's relegation to the territory, in task specialisation and in the world of work. it draws the commission's attention to the urgency of establishing a definition of energy poverty which takes into account gender equality aspects of the phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ this text confuses and mixes gender issues between older women, single women, single mothers, lesbians, bisexuals, transgender people, people with disabilities, migrants or women from ethnic minorities. worse still, the report does not propose any concrete solutions to the negative effects of austerity policies on service jobs, which are heavily feminized, the development of single-parent families, poverty in rural areas or part-time work. the only solutions proposed are inconsistent spending, stronger anti-discrimination legislation or encouraging men to take parental leave. the report denounces 'patriarchy' without understanding that immigration, which europe encourages, brings with it a very strong patriarchal culture. for these reasons i did not support this report, since it is not likely to improve the situation of women.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the solutions envisaged are limited to asking the states and the union to finance projects, and thus to increase spending, to strengthen the already numerous anti-discrimination legislation or to put men at home.
in writing. ‒ the effects of austerity policies, particularly in highly female-dominated jobs (personal services), the development of single-parent families, rural poverty, part-time work are considered in the report, but the solutions envisaged are limited to asking states and the union to finance projects, and thus increase spending, strengthen already plentiful anti-discrimination legislation or put men in the home. all of this justified my vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the poverty of women in the union, because this subject, which i am particularly sensitive to, falls within the strict competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ we are faced with a sad reality: women are more prone and vulnerable to poverty than men. the arena report on poverty: a gender perspective rightly highlights the gender pay gap and highlights some discrimination in the labour market. it also stresses the situation of women in rural areas, where the unemployment rate is extremely high. it thus calls on the member states to help improve their quality of life. however, the report as a whole cannot be supported in many respects. that is why i abstained on the final vote. it is too often, beyond its scope, that it interferes with the member states' own powers and therefore does not respect the principle of subsidiarity, particularly with regard to parental leave, the european child guarantee or the minimum pension.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the highly ideological report entitled 'poverty: a gender perspective'. there are more women than men living in poverty: 64.6 million women compared with 57.6 million men. the definition of women in poverty mixes different situations: elderly women, single women, single mothers, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, disabled, migrants or from ethnic minorities. this mixture of situations which have nothing to do with each other shows at the outset a great lack of rigor in the rapporteur's approach. the report does not propose any concrete solutions to the negative effects on women of austerity policies, the development of single-parent families, rural poverty or part-time work. the only solutions proposed are to commit expenditure in all directions, to strengthen anti-discrimination legislation or to put men at home (parental leave). the report also criticises 'patriarchy', without calling into question immigration, whose culture is very often very patriarchal. for all these reasons, this report is not likely to improve the situation of women.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to improve the situation of women, who suffer more from poverty than men: there are 64.6 million women in precarious situations compared to 57.6 million men worldwide. the whole text is full of ideological proposals, aimed more at imposing a certain vision of gender and the relations between men and women. while it covers the different categories of women who are victims of poverty (elderly women, disabled women, migrants, transgender women, etc.), it calls on the state to finance all-round projects that are inconsistent in this context, such as the strengthening of legislation against discrimination or the placing of men at home (parental leave). this text is therefore not likely to improve the situation of women in poverty. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. we welcome the desire to address poverty among women but deplore the lack of concrete proposals and the lack of clarity in the definition of women in poverty. this concept as it is understood in the text seems to cover all kinds of categories (concerning poverty, but also sexuality, religion, disability or illegal status). the text seems to focus more on the fight against discrimination than on poverty. it proposes to commit ever more expenditure in areas not directly affected by poverty among women. we also disagree with the fact that the project advocates the development of parental leave for men and the development of single-parent families, instead of the revival of an ambitious family policy. finally, it does not call into question the mass immigration of peoples whose cultures, particularly in their relationship to women, are not compatible with ours.
in writing. ‒ this report raises a multitude of problems of rigour and reflection. firstly, it equates women in very different situations, such as migrants, single mothers, single women, etc. many jobs that are highly sought after by women are discussed, but no concrete solutions are envisaged. the prospects are to increase legislation and to put men at home. this text struggles with its unrealism and does not stop at a paradox. it particularly criticises patriarchy without calling into question the immigration of a population very often of patriarchal culture. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ we cannot want to defend women's rights and encourage immigration at the same time, it is a contradiction in terms. i am therefore unfortunately not going to vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ poverty has no colour, origin or gender. unfortunately, too many people, women, children and men, are still living in poverty in the european union. i abstained on this text to recall that it is at the level of the member states that strong measures must be adopted to combat poverty, in addition to the necessary european cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on poverty - a perspective of equality between men and women. the number of women in poverty in the european union is higher than that of men. single-parent families are more exposed to this. the resolution therefore proposes a series of proposals to combat poverty among women, which i share: better reconciliation of family and working life by establishing working conditions favourable to family life, better use of the european structural and investment funds, implementation of policies to promote the employment of women and the integration of socially marginalised groups of women into the labour market, and a more effective fight against undeclared work and atypical forms of contract. finally, there is an urgent need to close the pay gap and to reduce the pension gap between men and women.
in writing. ‒ this report considers improving the situation of women mainly in terms of combating discrimination, in particular in favour of migrants and ethnic, religious and sexual minorities. it vainly criticizes "patriarchy", even as the permissiveness of migration is encouraged. the effects of austerity policies, particularly in highly female-dominated jobs (personal services), the development of single-parent families, rural poverty, part-time work are considered in the report, but the solutions envisaged are limited to asking the states and the union to finance projects, and thus increase spending, strengthen already plentiful anti-discrimination legislation or put men in the home. for all these reasons, this report is not likely to improve the situation of women. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ women, especially single mothers, older women, migrants and women with disabilities, are the main victims of the increase in poverty and social exclusion resulting from the austerity policies in europe. this is partly due to the persistence of the gender pay and pension gaps, due in particular to career breaks to care for children and the very large share of women in part-time jobs. it is high time that member states promote real equality between women and men by developing quality public services, particularly in the fields of education and health, and by strengthening the different types of leave. in addition, the revision of existing legislation to close the pay gap and reduce the pension gap between men and women has been awaited for ten years now, even though this issue has been enshrined in the treaties since the beginning of european integration. this report by the european parliament's committee on women makes good observations and recommendations, as is often the case. i therefore voted in favour, of course, in the hope that this document will have some impact on the policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report, which makes some interesting points on administrative relief for businesses and economic freedoms, is peppered with a very clear european zeal. it calls for the full and definitive integration of the single market and maximum liberalisation of all sectors of activity by forcing the abolition of non-tariff barriers, administrative (effective) devices used by member states to protect particular economic sectors. the report ignores national concerns and peculiarities and disregards the sovereign nature of certain protective decisions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this text which sacrifices the protection of consumer interests and national economic interests on the altar of the religion of the single market. the main aim of this report is to remove the last non-tariff barriers which still resist the invader of maximum liberalization in all sectors of activity. this calls into question certain national health standards and protected geographical indications which are guarantees of our french way of life and know-how, and at the same time pillars of food security. under the guise of helping firms to gain access to the single market (only 2% of them are now able to do so), the aim is to make the system of posting of workers fully operational and to combat any defence, however benign, of national industries. i welcome some of the interesting points in the report, such as the proposals for administrative relief for businesses, but i regret that they are only a pretext for the ideology of the king of the market at the expense of the interests and needs of the people.
in writing. ‒ this report offers some interesting elements in terms of administrative relief for businesses and economic freedoms. unfortunately, it is parasitized by an offensive european zeal. the aim is to achieve full and definitive integration of the single market and the maximum possible liberalisation of all sectors of activity by forcing the abolition of non-tariff barriers, administrative devices used by member states to protect particular economic sectors. the report ignores national concerns and particularities and flouts the sovereign nature of certain protective decisions and intelligent protectionism is here condemned. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while this report seems to offer some interesting points in terms of administrative relief for businesses, it shows a europeanist zeal that is unmatched. the report calls for further integration of the single market and maximum liberalisation of all sectors of activity still protected by non-tariff barriers which member states are rightly using to protect some of their economic sectors under stress. at this rate, protected geographical indications and all regulated professions will soon be threatened. finally, and most absurdly, the report contains an article denouncing the obstacles to the mobility of posted workers in the craft and service sectors. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a single market requires the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade if the elimination of these barriers is beneficial to european citizens. it is essential that the single market is based on fair and healthy competition. companies must be treated in the same way in all member states. if regulations discriminate against certain firms and do not benefit consumers, then they must be abolished. the elimination of non-tariff barriers will particularly benefit smes and start-ups, which are often in a disequilibrium situation when carrying out cross-border activities due to their size. in this approach, we must of course take account of the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, which allow member states to preserve their specific features, provided that they do not harm fair competition. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report deals with the issue of non-tariff barriers which constitute an obstacle to trade within the union. these include national technical regulations which impede the free movement of goods and services. the report proposes a clear definition of a 'non-tariff' barrier and effective measures to combat it. considering that the proper functioning of the single market requires a deepening and rationalisation of its rules in order to avoid any additional administrative burden, i supported this report.
in writing. this own-initiative report deals with non-tariff barriers to trade and commerce in the union. it provides clear solutions to the challenges and obstacles to the achievement of a fully functioning internal market. i therefore voted in favour of this report which sets out the steps needed to deal with the problem of non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which calls for the full and definitive integration of the single market and the liberalisation of all sectors of activity, through the abolition of non-tariff barriers such as quantitative restrictions (quotas), technical or health standards, protected geographical indications, 'made in', administrative formalities, specific commercial practices or regulated professions. as always, the text invokes the alleged benefits of the completion of the single market and the fact that businesses, workers and consumers would benefit from it. in view of the ultra-liberal nature of this text, which also denies the sovereignty of states, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report ignores national concerns and particularities and disregards the sovereignty of certain protective decisions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this.
in writing. ‒ this report makes some interesting points on administrative relief for businesses and economic freedoms, but it is peppered with a very offensive european zeal. it calls for the full and definitive integration of the single market and maximum liberalisation of all sectors of activity by forcing the abolition of non-tariff barriers, administrative (effective) devices used by member states to protect particular economic sectors. the report makes a mockery of national concerns and peculiarities and disregards the sovereign nature of certain protective decisions. i voted against this text, which is logical.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on non-tariff barriers to trade and commerce in the union, in particular on national technical rules and requirements which continue to impede the free movement of goods and services in the union, despite the abolition of tariff barriers in the 1980s. it is urgent to remove these obstacles to the completion of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'non-tariff barriers in the single market'. this report makes some interesting points on administrative relief for businesses and economic freedoms, but it is also marked by a very offensive european zeal. it calls for the full and definitive integration of the single market and maximum liberalisation of all sectors of activity by forcing the abolition of non-tariff barriers, administrative (effective) devices used by member states to protect particular economic sectors. the report ignores national concerns and peculiarities and disregards the sovereign nature of certain protective decisions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote is in favour of the abolition of the last tariff and protectionist barriers which preserve our market economy. with a view to full liberalisation of all sectors of activity, it proposes to remove existing tariff barriers such as technical or health standards, administrative formalities and protected geographical indications. it is therefore a ploy to destroy european workers and their businesses, under the pretext of high profits and future welfare for consumers. it is regrettable that the rapporteur suggests only a few interesting measures such as administrative relief for businesses and economic freedoms, whereas all his work is unreal and ideological. to counteract this orderly destruction of national particularities and of the sovereignty of the member states and their economies, i am voting against.
in writing. - i voted against this report. although there are some interesting proposals from the point of view of administrative simplification, this report tends to do away with any notion of 'intelligent protectionism', which we oppose. it supports full integration of the single market and strives for as much liberalism as possible. it also called for the abolition of non-tariff barriers such as quotas, national health standards, protected geographical indications (pgi), 'made in', administrative formalities, specific commercial practices and regulated professions.
in writing. ‒ the report is noteworthy in that it proposes administrative relief for businesses and greater economic freedoms. however, the aim of this text is to establish once and for all the single market and a new ultra-liberalism. the measures to achieve this are the abolition of non-tariff instruments which the states use to protect particular economic sectors (made in, protected geographical indications, etc.). the argument is that there are considerable benefits. it is also a question of pushing companies towards the single market through aid. but it does not seem that smes are reluctant to do so. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - this report is ridiculously and caricaturedly ultra-liberal. there is absolutely no question of condoning the delusions which make this report say, for example, that the promotion of local products would be a hindrance to the single market. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ this text on the removal of non-tariff barriers in the internal market underlines that the completion of the single market could bring europe between €650 and €1100 billion in economic gains per year, while non-tariff barriers (e.g. technical standards or unjustified regulations) remain and hinder the free movement of goods and services between member states. the report considers that the varying time-limits and methods of transposition of directives in the member states create legal uncertainty and distortions of competition for european companies. this is particularly true for france, which tends to penalise itself by over-transposing eu law. it calls for simplification of vat at community level, recognises the legitimacy of the regulation of public services which carry out tasks of general interest, and recognises the specific nature of the regulated professions and the need to guarantee fair competition rules for them. i therefore voted in favour of this balanced report.
in writing. ‒ the single market, which is one of the strengths of the european union, must evolve and not be subject to unjustified obstacles. i voted in favour of this report on non-tariff barriers to trade and commerce, which are in particular the rules and requirements, often technical, imposed at member state level and which apply to suppliers of goods and services. these barriers are a major obstacle to the free movement of goods and services within the eu, and thus a drag on growth. where they are not justified, non-tariff barriers should simply no longer exist.
in writing. - i have supported this resolution on non-tariff barriers in the single market. the single market is one of the pillars of the european construction and a source of growth and jobs for the european economy. however, it still needs to be improved to deliver its full potential. for example, in the present case, the free movement of goods and services is still hampered by unjustified non-tariff barriers. they should therefore be lifted without prejudice to the ability of member states to legislate and pursue legitimate public policy objectives. to this end, it is worth recalling, among other things, that member states must apply european legislation effectively, that regulatory policies and practices must be consistent, or that information on the different regulatory requirements should be more accessible. we also expect the commission to present in 2016 a comprehensive overview of the unjustified non-tariff barriers in the single market and a proposal to remove them. it should be remembered that in the end it is smes and micro-enterprises as well as consumers who are harmed by these unjustified non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that more than 20 years after the opening of the single market, unjustified non-tariff barriers continue to impede trade and the free movement of goods and services between member states. action is urgently needed at both member state and union level to eliminate these non-tariff barriers once and for all, since they cannot be justified. to this end, information on divergences in national regulatory requirements should be easily accessible through a simplification and improvement of the current system. in this context, the initiative of a single digital portal should be highlighted and also a call for a single access point for businesses and consumers to all information relating to the single market. i supported this text because it calls on the commission to use guidelines and to further encourage a culture of compliance. the report calls on the commission to identify non-tariff barriers to the single market in 2016 in order to eliminate them once and for all and unlock the untapped potential of the single market.
in writing. ‒ a report with some interesting points on administrative relief for businesses and economic freedoms, but it is still peppered with a very offensive european zeal. it calls for the full and definitive integration of the single market and maximum liberalisation of all sectors of activity by forcing the abolition of non-tariff administrative barriers, artifices (effective only if they are unpleasant) which member states use to protect particular economic sectors. the report ignores national concerns and peculiarities and disregards the sovereign nature of certain protective decisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ it is a 'funny' report that has been presented to us concerning the so-called 'non-tariff barriers' which would deprive the single market of some of its potential. these so-called obstacles include all the standards and legislation protecting employees and consumers, which are at the heart of the tafta negotiations in particular. the rapporteur believes that this deregulation would not have an impact on the rights of employees if they are not 'discriminatory and disproportionate'. and of course he proposes to further deregulate the digital single market, which i have already strongly opposed. deregulation of regulated professions and the banking sector is also recommended. we know the song and we see the harmful effects of these policies every day but nothing is done about it. the liberals continue to run wild. so i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report provides interesting ideas for the future, such as the collaborative economy or improving access to finance for smes and artisans. unfortunately, no self-criticism; genuine denial of the record. the rapporteur has managed to reconcile, in a fine trick of the magician, the intensification of the fight against all forms of protectionism, the full implementation of the so-called services directive (catastrophic for businesses), the directive on the posting of workers (destroying jobs) and the protection of artisans and smes. two goals that are irreconcilable. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ in the european parliament, bad faith is not a crisis when it comes to saving the euro-federalist utopia at all costs. this report on the 'digital single market strategy' echoes the same mantra: the crisis, unemployment, it is the fault of the member states! only a fully integrated europe - a federal state - will make possible the coming of the singing tomorrows, and for that, the single market must first be fully achieved! the commis­sion's report therefore proposes to put a definitive stop to these recalcitrant nations by putting an end to all non­tariff barriers such as regulated professions or protected geographical indications. a real death sentence for our food security and our industries, including the full implementation of the services directive and the posting of workers directive, which have already killed many of our businesses. i therefore voted against this report. the message from the epp group, from which the rapporteur (republicans) comes, is clear: the eu is always right, reality is wrong!
in writing. ‒ according to this report, the economic difficulties faced by the member states of the european union are largely due to the inadequacy of the single market integration process. the rapporteur is therefore trying to find solutions to remove all the obstacles to the single market. it is in this context that it is called for the abolition of all tariff and non-tariff barriers, the harmonisation of taxation between member states in order to combat tax evasion and the strengthening of the mobility of workers within the union by implementing the 'posting of workers' directive. we, on the contrary, consider that the current lack of growth and mass unemployment are the result of the widespread free trade which is giving our economies to the winds of unbridled globalisation. only a return to intelligent protectionism, which protects us from social and environmental dumping by the emerging countries, will enable us to return to the path of prosperity. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the single market holds great potential for european citizens and businesses, especially smes and start-ups. yet it is far from complete. many obstacles still persist, which reduce the potential for innovation and growth and the benefits for citizens. a single market strategy that puts european citizens at the centre is needed. improving the business environment and adapting european legislation to the specificities of smes will serve this objective. of course, for the single market to be successful, fair competition between the different players is essential. i voted in favour of this report. it was also an opportunity for me to reiterate my views on the need to combat fiscal and social dumping.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given its opinion on the european commission's single market strategy, which was presented in october 2015. the report also calls for the creation of a modern, more innovative, deeper and fairer single market, with particular emphasis on helping businesses, in particular smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups, to remove barriers to developing their activities and establishing themselves in the single market. i supported this report because i believe that reforming, deepening and modernising the single market is essential to fostering growth and jobs.
in writing. i supported the report on the single market strategy which provides easy access for smes, start-ups and micro-enterprises to eu funds and highlights their innovative nature and measures to facilitate their access to the patent system.
in writing. ‒ a well-functioning single market is essential to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and to ensure competitiveness and sustainable growth in europe. it is therefore necessary to improve tax cooperation and ensure that companies compete with neighbours and partners who respect the same rules. in this respect, if we are to avoid the temptation of protectionism, it is crucial to bring respect for our rules and standards into international trade negotiations in exchange for access to our market, which is already the most open in the world.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the imco single market strategy report is to achieve a modern, more innovative, deeper and fairer single market. i voted in favour of this text, which focuses on aspects that help businesses (in particular smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups) to develop their activities, grow and establish themselves in the single market. so, through this vote, we support a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. we are also in favour of a compulsory system of providing essential information on handicrafts and industrial products. finally, i consider the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place, as advocated by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, to be an important tool in the fight against market distortions.
in writing. ‒ while the text does mention interesting ideas for the future, such as the collaborative economy or improving access to finance for smes and artisans, it remains in denial about the deep-seated difficulties facing the european union. these would only be due to the insufficiency of the single market integration process. the report argues that the unemployment, recession and democratic crisis we are experiencing can only be solved by completing european federalism. it advocates sanctions against countries that apply protectionism, that place administrative and technical limits on the mobility of workers, that set non-tariff barriers, particularly in the retail market, or that do not sufficiently harmonise their regulations with those of the eu. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report succeeds in reconciling the irreconcilable, such as the intensification of the fight against all forms of protectionism, the full implementation of the so-called 'services' directive (catastrophic for businesses), the directive on the posting of workers (destroying jobs) and the protection of artisans and smes.
in writing. ‒ while the report does mention interesting prospects such as the development of the collaborative economy or improving access to finance for smes and artisans, it is by no means a self-criticism of the real obstacles to the single market. the rapporteur confines herself to pointing the finger at the protectionism of sovereign states and envisages overcoming it regardless of what the people think. i simply voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to create a modern, more innovative, deeper and fairer single market. it focuses in particular on helping enterprises (particularly smes) to develop their activities in the internal market. the text also proposes the establishment of a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, as well as a mandatory labelling system to provide key information on handmade and industrial products. these measures will therefore enhance transparency and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the comi report on the single market strategy is to achieve a modern, more innovative, deeper and fairer single market. i voted in favour of this text, which focuses on aspects that help businesses (in particular smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups) to develop their activities, grow and establish themselves in the single market. so, through this vote, we support a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. we are also in favour of a compulsory system of providing essential information on handicrafts and industrial products. finally, i consider the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place, as advocated by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, to be an important tool in the fight against market distortions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the single market strategy. for the europeans, the single market remains the alpha and omega of economic progress. without him there is no salvation. the european union's deep difficulties are due solely to the inadequacy of the single market integration process. the 'intermediate' stage towards federalism, in which the union is blocked by the fault of the member states alone, is the only reason for unemployment, recession and the people's disillusionment. the obstacles remain numerous and must therefore be overcome even against the will of the member states and the people. any questioning or criticism is forbidden. this text is an ideological litany.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur believes that the single market is the only viable framework for the european economy. although it is marked by imperfections such as protectionist barriers set up by the member states and the delay in the application and harmonization of european rules, it remains the driving force behind european economic progress. in order to complete the federal europe, the text proposes a number of strategies, starting with the destruction of protectionist and non-tariff barriers, the development of cross-border trade, etc. although some ideas are worth highlighting, such as improving financing for smes and artisans, the whole text is a denial of reality, going against national economies. my vote is logically against.
in writing. - i voted against this report. despite some interesting proposals on the collaborative economy or improving access to finance for smes and artisans, we strongly oppose this report. the only aim is to develop the single market to its full potential, despite the desire of the member states to retain a share of sovereignty! the text seeks to remove the obstacles to the single market: we oppose the removal of non-tariff barriers, the questioning of administrative limits on the mobility of workers or the prohibition of protectionism by the states. finally, we oppose the full implementation of the services directive, which is particularly damaging to businesses, and the posting of workers directive, which is generating ever more unemployment!
in writing. ‒ the single market is the unstoppable horizon of the eurocrat. if it is not working well, it is because the member states are holding back federalism. europe, which has been without peoples, has yet to get rid of states. there is no question in this one-sided report. that said, some of the talk about the sharing economy is interesting. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ to oppose all forms of protectionism and to implement the so-called 'services' directive, the directive on the posting of workers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment. this report is absurd, i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the single market strategy. the text provides in particular for support for a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, support for the indication of the country of origin and a mandatory system for the communication of essential information on handicrafts and industrial products.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is a response to the single market strategy presented by the european commission in october 2015. realising the full potential of the single market must be the objective of every economic policy decided at european level. to achieve this, emphasis on modernity and innovation to make this single market more integrated and fair are necessary guidelines. in this context, it is important to remember that it is not only smes but also small businesses and start-ups that will be the driving forces behind economic dynamism in the single market.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to provide guidance on how to tackle one of the most well-known problems of the european single market: its fragmentation. combined with the crisis, which saw the number of unemployed in the union rise to 22 million in 2015, this represents a shortfall of almost €1 trillion. by removing unnecessary barriers, non-tariff barriers, and promoting greater legislative and regulatory harmonisation, rapid results could be achieved in competitiveness, sustainable growth, research, innovation, consumer protection, job creation and investment, in particular for infrastructure, as well as the flourishing of smes and the most innovative companies in the union (in particular by facilitating their access to finance). while the report is not yet a legislative one, it is nevertheless a strong political message from meps to the commission and the member states to move towards greater integration. this is an initiative that can only be welcomed and encouraged, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the single market, beyond its symbol for european integration, remains a vehicle for growth, competitiveness, innovation and employment, provided it adapts and responds to new developments. it is an asset that must be used in the best possible way to strengthen the european economy, consolidate its strengths and unlock its potential. unjustified obstacles to this should therefore be removed. the house therefore affirms its support for the general objectives of the commission's strategy for the single market in goods and services and calls for a more modern and innovative, deeper and fairer single market. our resolution covers many aspects such as the adaptation of the single market to the digital revolution, the importance of adequate consumer information and country of origin labelling, and the need to ensure a high level of consumer protection both online and offline. i was generally satisfied with the final text, and i therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out a strategy for the single market. while there have certainly been many positive developments in the single market in recent years, the completion of the single market would be the source of significant gains. the fragmentation of the single market is one of the main obstacles to greater economic growth. the aim is to develop a strategy to deepen and modernise the integration of the single market, through greater harmonisation of legislation. the report advocates a reduction in administrative burdens and compliance costs for businesses, especially smes. it also calls for the full potential of the digital age to be exploited, for example by creating a fully electronic public procurement system or the recent launch of a platform to combat undeclared work. i voted in favour of this text because it calls for greater consumer protection. labelling, indication of origin or the creation of a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products would help to protect consumers and fight counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ the single market remains the alpha and omega of economic progress. without him there is no salvation. the european union's deep difficulties are due solely to the inadequacy of the single market integration process. the 'intermediate' stage towards federalism, in which the union is stuck through the fault of the member states alone, is presented as the sole reason for unemployment, recession and the people's disillusionment. the obstacles remain numerous and must therefore be overcome even against the will of the member states and the people. any questioning or criticism is forbidden. this text is a litany. i am voting against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ one of the main objectives of european integration is to strengthen deregulation in order to complete the single market according to the neoliberal logic. while this report notes the rise in unemployment, particularly among young people, and the decline in the competitiveness of enterprises, it does not question the causes of this, i.e. first and foremost the austerity policies which are largely responsible for this situation. on the contrary, the report encourages us to continue along the same lines and to continue with the same neoliberal logic, with the consequences we know. it is not surprising that he recommends reducing administrative and tax barriers in order to free up capital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is still the same old story with the same negative consequences for the rights of workers and citizens. like all the members of my group, i remain firmly opposed to the creation of this so-called single market and the general deregulation it entails, and i therefore voted against it.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, development is the combination of capital and human labour. development is done by men, but it is not decreed. i have learned this from 20 years of practice in africa, because training and the transfer of know-how must go hand in hand with the transfer of capital: it takes time and planning. real development is organized, planned and financed for a long-term return on investment which does not comply with the law of the market and of generalized competition, which, for its part, has only short-term prospects and therefore does not invest in human capital. europe and africa have in common that they have been victims of an austerity imposed by debt and therefore by finance, which has taken over the real economy, the human economy that is developing: africa by the imf, in the context of the debt crisis of the 1980s, and europe, in that of the sovereign debt crisis that followed the banking crisis of 2007-2008. we should remember the jewish jubilee, which was the cancellation of debts every 50 years to restore a humane sense of economy. for that we would have to get out of our slogans about the single market, which is really unique in almost programmed bankruptcy. i propose a real new deal for europe and africa, using the resources of the central bank not to buy debts, but to create, this time, new wealth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this billion will enable france, italy, greece, portugal and spain to get back to jobs and growth. five hundred billion for africa and the middle east, because creating wealth in those countries is essential if we are to stop the immigration of poverty and make sure that men have the right to live and develop in their own countries.
mr president, nuclear disasters are one of the worst threats to mankind. the 1986 chernobyl and 2011 fukushima accidents must be taken very seriously; the european parliament is therefore rightly concerned about the safety of the ostrovets nuclear power plant, which belarus is currently completing construction with a view to starting operation in 2018. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the costs of the plant. this test is a necessary precaution. it was carried out after fukushima on 145 reactors in the european union and on 20 reactors outside the union. the 2013 resolution has thus developed a nuclear safety culture in europe that belarus would be well advised to respect. this is all the more desirable since the ostrovets power station is located only 50 kilometres from vilnius, the capital of lithuania. nuclear safety is also the subject of international cooperation organized under the control of the international atomic energy agency by the treaty of 17 june 1994. this international cooperation will of course be continued in the context of the europe of nations, which i wish to see. the legitimate concern about the safety of ostrovets must not, however, be used by the union to attack russia once again. belarus is an ally of russia, which deployed a military air base there in 2015, and it is known that russia financed the construction of the ostrovets power plant. i therefore ask the union not to take advantage of this case to further damage our relations with russia.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank all members for their interventions which show how high the stakes really are when it comes to energy safety and security. by way of wrap-up, i would like to pick up on a few of the wider issues raised during the debate, but first on the ostrovets case. let me underline what i said at the start: the commission will continue to use all the instruments at its disposal to ensure the highest possible safety standards in the eu and internationally. that is non-negotiable, as i already said. that is why our priority is now to ensure the timely implementation of ostrovets nuclear safety stress tests in line with european specifications. as always, the commission will keep this house fully up to date with any developments as and when they happen. but let me be clear. many of the solutions to the questions raised in this debate lie in the need to end energy isolation and complete europe’s internal energy market. for lithuania, as well as for all baltic states, this means that we need to continue working towards their full integration into the european energy market. the good news is that we are making progress. we recently saw the start of operations for the electricity interconnections of lithuania with poland and sweden. thanks to the litpol link and nordbalt, the level of interconnection of the baltic states with the rest of the european grid has substantially increased, from 4% in early 2014 to approximately 22%. on gas, work is under way on the game-changing gas interconnector poland-lithuania. gipl, as it is called, is the first gas interconnector between the eastern baltic sea region and continental europe. when complete in 2019 it will end the region’s gas isolation, further diversify gas sources, routes and counterparts, and ultimately help to reduce prices for consumers. much of this progress is thanks in large part to the baltic energy market interconnection plan, which brings together all the baltic states to cooperate on integrating the region into a european network. this is an example to others on what we can achieve under the energy union. but we must build on this progress. our next challenge is to ensure the synchronisation of the baltic states and other isolated regions with the rest of the eu market. our vision is of an energy union based on solidarity and trust, which speaks with one voice to our external partners and which, ultimately, provides the secure and sustainable energy europe’s citizens need. that is why the energy union is a top commission priority and why our focus is fully on implementation. we look forward to working hand in hand with the european parliament to make it a reality.
in writing. during this debate, our attention was drawn to the astraviets nuclear power plant project in belarus. the project was the subject of a contract signed with the russian nuclear group rosatom for the construction of two aes-type reactors. the project has raised questions from neighbouring countries about the safety of the third generation nuclear plant. if there is one area which requires a scientific and rational analysis, it is the nuclear field. as a supporter of this clean and almost inexhaustible energy, i am convinced that we must not take any risks in the field of nuclear safety, unless we see the future of this energy totally called into question if another chernobyl-type accident should ever occur. it is therefore clear that this project has been validated by the iaea and that the rosatom group has been given permission to build power stations in india, china, iran and hungary. finally, finland has selected this group for the construction of its sixth reactor, which will be equipped with the same technology as in belarus.
madam president, mr juncker went to the french mayors' congress on 31 may to tell them that europe is them. no, mr juncker, europe is you! the austerity policy that is starving the communes is you! the mayors are your victims and you are their executioner. a hangman who lies to them when he claims that france is receiving 27 billion euros from the structural funds over six years, when in reality the union costs france twice as much over the same period. a hangman who mocks them when he says, and i quote, that 'the commission has a soul', whereas you are the worthy representative of the financial oligarchy which shamelessly crushes them, as is proved by the repeated scandals: luxleaks yesterday, the panama papers today, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership tomorrow. but the mayors are not fooled, mr juncker, and they are increasingly joining the ranks of those whom you disparagingly call populists and who are in fact patriots.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr hugues bayet, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the establishment of rules to combat tax evasion practices that have a direct impact on the functioning of the market (com (((2016) 0026 c8-0031/2016 2016/0011 ((cns)) (a8-0189/2016).
the s&d group, madam president, commissioner, mr bayet, rapporteur of this important text, when things are moving forward, we must recognize that they are moving forward. and, of course, in the field of taxation, in the last few months we have had the feeling that the european union is making progress. it is moving forward in small steps, it is moving forward under duress, because it is obviously as a result of the scandals, the revelations, and thanks to tremendous pressure from public opinion, from the european citizens, but also to the undeniable determination of the members of the european parliament that we have today to discuss a text of quality which makes a number of proposals that go in the right direction. it is an ambitious text and it gives - especially at this precise moment when people are doubting the validity of the european construction, when citizens are asking themselves questions, when they are constantly expressing their caution, their disappointment, sometimes even their anger - the opportunity to be able to prove with texts of this nature that europe knows how to be ambitious, that europe knows how to move forward, and that the european parliament can find itself, right and left together, on important texts. i congratulate the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy and of course the rapporteur, mr bayet, for presenting a text in one package which, nevertheless, lays the foundations for important and progressive legislation. firstly, this reform contains major advances in our taxation system. it allows the flow of profits into or out of the union in both directions to be more accurately tracked and ensures that they are taxed fairly. as regards the income of companies returning to europe, the so-called 'switch-over' clause, which ensures that flows into the union have been taxed at a rate that is not unfair, has been intelligently supplemented by our rapporteur, mr bayet, in order to apply a common criterion throughout the european union. that said, it's very important. secondly, for flows out of europe, the measure of taxation on the exit of profits leaving the union completes the scheme. we have long forgotten, in focusing on double taxation, that there is also massive double non-taxation, and the bayet report answers that. finally, and this seems to me to be very clear - the rapporteur and the commissioner have stressed this point - this text has been enriched by definitions which are at the same time simple, clear and understandable; this is particularly the case for 'permanent establishment'. why is that important? the rapporteur has just referred to this. we have a scandal in france with booking.com, 300 million euros are not being taxed - i am finishing, madam president - and for that reason alone, the text is going in the right direction. of course, this is only the beginning, of course the council is not convinced, but we are on the right track.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner moscovici, rapporteur bayet, after several weeks of discussions, sometimes difficult but always cordial, i believe that the european parliament is ready to send a clear signal to the member states which have not yet succeeded in agreeing on the directive to combat tax evasion by large companies. the message is simple: it is possible to go further than the european commission's initial proposal. any retreat would therefore be a deliberate choice by our european leaders to maintain whatever national advantages they may have in this great competition for the so-called tax minimum. the latest discussions between finance ministers unfortunately suggest an agreement on the rebate. one of the six provisions in the text, the switchover clause, which ensures that money entering europe is taxed correctly, is at risk of being removed from the final agreement. in addition, it is important to limit the deduction of interest by large companies to prevent them from artificially indebting some of their subsidiaries and thus not paying tax in these countries. unfortunately, this limitation would not apply to existing loans and interest, which play a key role in all the tax scandals identified so far. and the list of failures is long... the european parliament has a clear view on this point. the position of the european commission must be a minimum. we must go further and be more ambitious. the greens therefore advocated the addition of a point on tax regimes favourable to patents. i want to stress this point because this is a vital issue in the fight against tax optimisation. this tool is a purely european invention, launched in 2006 by the netherlands and has spread to more than a dozen countries in europe. these tools, which are supposed to promote research and development, actually offer an opportunity for large companies to reduce their tax rates without developing innovation and research, as the commission itself points out. it is therefore necessary to resolve the matter without delay. the commission should present a legislative proposal in the coming months under codecision, to allow parliament to have a say. mr moscovici, you have an important role to play, first of all by taking our recommendations to the finance ministers so that at least the damage can be limited. then it is time for you to move quickly to accelerate other key issues such as the creation of a blacklist of tax havens, the introduction of sanctions against territories, intermediaries or companies engaged in or inciting tax evasion, and the publication of country-by-country information extended to all countries. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". there is no question of tax competition. no one disputes the possibility of having different rates for each country. what we are contesting is this race to the bottom with opaque measures. for example, in luxembourg, it is not the 29% rate that is applied, but tax rulings and individual agreements. as for cyprus, the companies are not looking for a low rate, but for the opacity that your island offers.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner moscovici, the fight against aggressive tax optimisation and its devastating consequences for public finances is therefore a seemingly consensual fight. multinational corporations that have built their business model on tax evasion or avoidance must understand that the game is over. the six points proposed for regulation in the directive which is the subject of our colleague mr bayet's report would be a step forward indeed. the question is whether the european union is politically legitimate in waging this fight. on principle, you know our reluctance to accept the political inefficiency of the european union. however, we must be pragmatic. the states have made tax competition play out to the point of dumping. their governments have been unable to cooperate and have resulted in the situation of lost tax revenues that is conducive to all kinds of scandals, like luxleaks and the panama papers. france is a country that is failing to make itself fiscally attractive because of the spending madness of the socialist and ump governments. i wonder, moreover, what the real sincerity of the epp and s&d legislators is, who pretend to support projects which only come into being under the pressure of scandals. france may have more to gain from the implementation of the control tools proposed by the directive. if the improvement can be achieved through international tax cooperation, even with the european union, then bang. but this is by no means a blank check: i would remind you that the patriots are more than ever against the concept of fiscal union. france must keep its tax rates under control.
mr president, the mifid directive is designed in particular to prevent banks from continuing to sell anything to anyone, that is to say high-risk assets to uninformed and vulnerable customers. the report we are voting on now seeks to postpone the implementation of this directive until 2018, ten years after the subprime crisis. the commission is therefore proposing to give more time to banks which abuse the credibility of individuals and sometimes fragile businesses. one of two things: either the european securities and markets authority, esma, is not competent to establish serious financial regulation, or it gives the big international banks additional leeway to continue to profit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. in any case, in this and other areas, promises were not to be made that could not be kept, for no one is bound to do what he cannot. how can the commission combat the greed of the banks when it is constantly promoting the most unrestrained free trade? in reality, beyond the grand declarations of principle, it is your ultra-liberal software that prevents you from better regulating the activities of speculative finance.
mr president, the regulation of financial markets is obviously an imperative that unites almost all european citizens, who have been witnesses and often victims of successive crises, notably that of 2008, which demonstrated the exorbitant role that certain very complex financial instruments had played in the orientation of our economies. i hear the arguments in favour of postponement, but i insist on one point: postponement cannot be a blanket license given to the commission to postpone or even abandon measures which are absolutely necessary. i am thinking in particular of the scandal of speculation in raw materials and foodstuffs. finally, i think there's one last thing we need to address. we cannot close one door and open another, and the concern we have, particularly in the socialist group, is the blind liberalization of certain practices such as securitisation, which is now envisaged in the context of the proposed capital markets union. we will therefore be vigilant on this point, but again, this text is in the right direction.
mr president, protecting consumers, investors and citizens, restoring confidence, combating all forms of speculation and ensuring transparency in financial transactions are obviously objectives that must be achieved as quickly as possible. the 2008 crisis should have taught us more about the risks of an uncontrolled financial system that is hurting the real economy. this money, moving at the speed of light, with no impact on the real economy, makes me angry. how can europe allow this to happen? it is time to get our act together and implement effective legislation that prevents speculation and restores confidence to european citizens. the devil is in the details, they say, and the new deadline should allow, as i understand it, to settle those details. let us hope that there will not be another financial crisis in the meantime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the framework convention of the world health organization. through provisions such as the granting of licences, the establishment of product tracking and tracing, the control of the entire manufacturing and transport chain and the introduction of penalties against infringers, the text seeks to establish international cooperation by imposing principles without constraining the member states in the way they are implemented. unlike the eu texts, this report respects the sovereignty of the member states and pursues an objective which i support. however, i regret that it is the eu and not the member states that are signatories to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is intended to send a signal to the member states to ratify, as soon as possible, the additional protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organisation. if this text is to become legally binding, it must be borne in mind that a minimum of 40 ratifications are required. however, at present only 17 countries worldwide have ratified it, including only five european states.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, a who framework convention on tobacco control was signed at the world health assembly. the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was signed on 20 december 2013 subject to its conclusion at a later date. the protocol calls for action to combat smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products. the aim is to protect public health and to recover tax revenues. the text calls for the granting of licences, the monitoring and tracing of products, the control of the whole manufacturing and transport chain and the introduction of sanctions against infringers. unlike the european union's texts, this protocol respects the sovereignty of the parties, imposes principles but not the precise way of implementing them, and requires proper international cooperation. i regret that it is the european union and not the member states that are signing this text, but i can only agree with the objectives and the text of this protocol, which i therefore voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to give the european union the legitimacy and the necessary weapons to fight effectively against the illicit trade in tobacco products. this illicit trade often finances illegal practices and is done to the detriment of the consumer by a haphazard application of standards in favour of the health of the users of these products.
in writing. ‒ a who framework convention on tobacco control was signed at the world health assembly in 2003, followed by a protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, signed on 20 december 2013. the protocol calls for the fight against smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products, in order to protect public health and to put an end to a major shortfall in tax revenues for the member states, by means of product tracking and tracing and closer control of the manufacturing and transport chain. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which constitutes a definitive acceptance of the measures recommended by the protocol: it calls for proper international cooperation which preserves the sovereignty of the states, and lays down a number of principles but leaves the states free to decide how to apply them.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report on the protocol to the who framework convention on combating illicit trade in tobacco products. signed in 2003 at the world health assembly, this convention, and especially the protocol that followed in 2013, allows cooperation in the fight against smuggling, manufacturing and illicit trade in tobacco, objectives closely linked to public health issues, but also, for states, tax revenues. this report will make it possible, in particular, to grant licences, to set up product monitoring and tracing and thus to establish effective control over the production and transport of tobacco products, with possible penalties where appropriate. moreover, unlike the european texts on the subject, which tend to deny the sovereignty of the member states, the protocol ensures the cooperation of sovereign nations in good faith, in particular by allowing them to decide how they implement the principles to which they have adhered in the who convention.
in writing. ‒ the protocol aims to combat smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products for public health and tax revenue purposes. i am in favour of such an approach insofar as the means envisaged seem to me appropriate - monitoring and tracing of products, control of the manufacturing and transport chain, sanctions against infringers - and where the sovereignty of states is respected. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this protocol aims to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products; it was ratified on 20 december 2013, subject to its conclusion at a later date. it is intended to combat illicit manufacture and eradicate counterfeiting of tobacco products in order to contribute to the protection of public health and to recover tax revenues linked to this trade. the text specifically calls for the monitoring and tracing of products, the strengthening of controls throughout the manufacturing chain and the tightening of sanctions against traffickers. we are in full agreement with the philosophy and objectives of this text. although the european union is signing this protocol in the name of the member states, our national sovereignty is preserved. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'smoking' in the definition of tobacco products. this non-legislative report is a recommendation by the european parliament in favour of ratifying the council's proposal for the who framework convention on tobacco control (who fctc). the ctbto aims to reduce tobacco-related mortality and disease worldwide and to combat illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular smuggling of cigarettes into and within the union, which causes significant revenue losses in terms of taxes and duties avoided for the union and the member states. in view of all these issues, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported this text which aims to conclude, on behalf of the european union, the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control. the illicit trade in tobacco products, and in particular the smuggling of cigarettes, not only poses a serious threat to public health, but also results in significant revenue losses for the european union. we must therefore actively combat this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, a who framework convention on tobacco control was signed at the world health assembly. the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was signed on 20 december 2013 subject to its conclusion at a later date. it aims to combat smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products. the aim is to protect public health and to recover tax revenues. the text calls for the granting of licences, the monitoring and tracing of products, the control of the whole manufacturing and transport chain and better sanctions for infringers. unlike the european union, this protocol respects the sovereignty of the states parties. it sets out principles but leaves room for implementation. however, this text is signed by the european union and not by the states. i voted for it, however, because it is the right thing to do.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: agree with the objectives and the text of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying this protocol, which is intended to provide the european union with new tools to combat the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products, often organised by the cigarette manufacturers themselves, and which causes a tax loss of eur 10 to 12 billion per year in the union. after the entry into force of the tobacco directive on 20 may, this is another blow to the tobacco industry, whose fierce lobbying has fortunately not been successful. we must now ensure that the who protocol is ratified as soon as possible by all the member states of the union.
in writing. tobacco is trafficked everywhere in its production, transport and consumption: 12% of the 6 000 billion cigarettes sold worldwide each year are the subject of illicit trade. for reasons of public health, we must fight the illicit trade in tobacco to prevent existing and potential consumers, particularly minors, from having access to cigarettes at very low prices, and that is why i supported this report. fighting the illicit tobacco trade also means safeguarding the public finances of the states. for europe, the tax gap is estimated at over €10 billion per year. i therefore support the european parliament's approval to send a strong signal to other member states to ratify this protocol, and to the european union to become a party to the protocol as well, even though not all member states have ratified it.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control, which has been in force since 2005, aimed at eliminating illicit trade in tobacco products. we know the harmful effects of tobacco on human health. but citizens are far too often unaware of the indirect effects of smuggled cigarettes on our societies. this criminal activity must be firmly combated for a number of reasons: - it feeds criminal networks whose activities are not limited to cigarette smuggling alone, but also operate in other sectors of activity, such as money laundering, drug and arms trafficking, trafficking in human beings and migrants, or participate in the financing of terrorism; - it generates losses of revenue in terms of taxes and customs duties for states.
in writing. ‒ we can only agree with the objectives and the text of this protocol. it is simply regrettable that it is the european union that is signing this text and not the member states. i voted in favour of the text in any case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco. this is a great victory for the health of europeans and a great defeat for the tobacco lobby. the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco will control the flow of tobacco from manufacture to delivery by providing for strictly independent but paid for traceability by tobacco manufacturers. it will take 40 ratifications before it becomes legally binding, so the union's is a strong signal for member states to follow, given that, at the moment, only 5 member states have already ratified it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to combat smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products while respecting the sovereignty of countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report 'eliminating illicit trade in tobacco products: protocol to the who framework convention'. in 2003, a who framework convention on tobacco control was signed at the world health assembly. the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was signed on 20 december. it called for action to be taken against smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products. the aim is to protect public health and to recover tax revenues. the text calls for the granting of licences, the monitoring and tracing of products, the control of the entire manufacturing and transport chain and the introduction of sanctions against infringers. unlike the european union texts, this protocol respects the sovereignty of the parties, imposes principles but not the precise way of implementing them and requires proper international cooperation.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it is part of the anti-smoking campaign run by the world health organisation (who). the objectives are clear: to combat smuggling and illicit manufacture of tobacco products while protecting public health. a protocol to combat illicit trade in tobacco products was signed at the world health assembly on 20 december 2003. this protocol is part of the who framework convention signed in 2003. in concrete terms, this text sets specific objectives such as the monitoring and tracing of products, the control of the entire distribution and transport chain, etc. it is particularly distinct from european legislation in that it respects the sovereignty of the parties to the agreement and leaves them free to choose the means of implementing the objectives set.
in writing. ‒ tobacco is trafficked in its production, transport and consumption. the world health organisation (who) estimates that 12% of the 6 000 billion cigarettes sold worldwide each year are illicitly traded. the fight against this practice is above all a public health measure. the aim is to prevent existing or potential consumers, particularly minors, from having access to cigarettes at very low prices. fighting the illicit tobacco trade also means safeguarding the public finances of the states. for europe, the tax gap is estimated at over €10 billion per year. the proposed protocol provides the tools to secure the tobacco supply chain through a series of measures such as the establishment of a global tracking and traceability regime and the creation of a global focal point for the exchange of information. in order to strengthen public health and the fight against tax evasion, i therefore give my consent to the ratification of this protocol by the european union.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this report is in line with the protocol to the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organisation signed on 20 december 2013 to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. it aims to strengthen judicial cooperation between member states in criminal matters. it is undeniable that the illicit trade in tobacco represents a considerable shortfall in tax revenue for the member states. these losses are estimated at €10 billion per year for each member state, while legal tobacco sales bring them €90 billion annually. in addition to these financial considerations, there are the known health risks of smoking.
in writing. ‒ the szejnfeld report called on the european parliament to give its consent to the ratification by the european union of the world health organisation (who) protocol to eliminate illicit trafficking in tobacco products. the protocol is complementary to the who framework convention on tobacco control. it is to be welcomed that more and more states are pursuing voluntary public health policies to combat smoking (increased taxes, pictorial warnings, neutral packaging, etc.). however, tobacco traffickers are thriving as a corollary: 12% of the 6 000 billion cigarettes sold worldwide each year are illicitly traded, which also encourages tax evasion. this trafficking has implications for the revenue of states, depriving them of the room for manoeuvre needed to meet their public health objectives. the who protocol, in this context, provides a number of essential tools to combat this global phenomenon: international monitoring regime, increased traceability, creation of a central point for the exchange of information. in the inta committee and then in the plenary, i therefore supported the union's ratification of this protocol, which is fully in line with its more comprehensive strategy against tobacco trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (who fctc) is the first global health treaty. it was developed in response to the global tobacco epidemic and aims to tackle some of its causes, including the illicit trade in tobacco products. a protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was established in 2012 and signed by the union in 2013. in fact, in europe about one out of every ten cigarettes is sold illegally. the illicit trade in tobacco is a criminal activity that poses a serious risk to public health and undermines the success of tobacco control policies by facilitating access to products. it also causes the union to lose huge revenues in terms of taxes and customs duties, estimated at over eur 10 billion. the agreement of the european parliament is necessary for the union to ratify this protocol. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ we can only agree with the objectives of this protocol: to combat smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products in order to protect public health and tax revenues. i simply regret that this text has been signed by the union and not by the member states. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, a who framework convention on tobacco control was signed at the world health assembly. the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was signed on 20 december 2013 subject to its conclusion at a later date. it called for action to be taken against smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products. the aim is to protect public health and to recover tax revenues. this consensus text calls for support.
in writing. ‒ i think that the objectives and the text of this protocol are useful, and i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which aims to approve the conclusion by the council of the additional protocol to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco products, which aims to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. the fight against the illicit trade in tobacco products, which kills 6 million people a year, is aimed at combating crime and is also a means of reducing consumption.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but i want to prevent the eu from using this global fight led by the who as a pretext for developing a european criminal law and a european federal police. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft recommendation on the who framework convention on tobacco control. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was negotiated by the european union on behalf of the european union and signed on 20 december 2013. the protocol now needs to be ratified by 40 parties before it can enter into force, so it would be appropriate for the european union and its member states to ratify it swiftly.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation which gives the council the green light to conclude the agreement on the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, with the exception of its provisions falling under title v of part three of the feu treaty which concern the area of freedom, security and justice. this is a protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control, whose objective i fully support. this protocol aims to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products through measures which i approve. these measures include securing the tobacco supply chain, defining offences, determining the responsibility of those who commit these illegal acts, disposing of confiscated products, promoting international cooperation and improving traceability and monitoring. it is the only multilateral regulatory initiative in this field and must enter into force as soon as possible. it will be a useful new tool to combat the public health risk posed by tobacco, and will also help to tackle the €10 billion in financial losses caused by its illicit trade.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (who fctc) is the first global health treaty. the text entered into force on 27 february 2005 and now has 180 parties. it aims to secure the supply chain for tobacco and tobacco-related products through the establishment of a global tracking and traceability regime. it contains provisions on controls on licences, record keeping, internet sales, duty-free sales and international transit. it also covers offences and means of recovery and should allow for better international cooperation. the ratification of this protocol is part of the european union's overall strategy to combat cigarette smuggling, adopted in 2013. by ratifying the protocol, the union will facilitate its implementation and contribute to the effective fight against the illicit trade in tobacco, a major public health problem. i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the protocol calls for the fight against smuggling, illicit manufacture and counterfeiting of tobacco products. the aim is to protect public health and to recover tax revenues. the text calls for the granting of licences, the monitoring and tracing of products, the control of the whole manufacturing and transport chain and the introduction of sanctions against infringers. unlike the usual european union texts, this protocol respects the sovereignty of the parties, imposing principles but not the precise way of implementing them and calling for satisfactory international cooperation. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this recommendation on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles. the unece (united nations economic commission for europe) is a european body whose objective is to harmonise the type-approval and regulations for motor vehicles and spare parts (safety, flight, environmental protection, etc.). in the case of this text, the objective is global technological harmonisation with the aim of attracting china and india into this process. these different rules by continent or country had the advantage of constituting non-tariff barriers. it would therefore be harmful to remove them as this would increase global economic competition while allowing each party to effectively control the safety of vehicles sold on its territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the aim of this agreement is to facilitate trade in motor vehicles by establishing uniform technical prescriptions for the approval of vehicle equipment and parts and for the mutual recognition of such approvals. the automotive industry is a key sector for the european economy. international regulatory cooperation should foster a transparent environment and the emergence of higher standards of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ the stated objective of this report is global technological harmonisation. the advantage of the different rules per continent or country was that they constituted non-tariff barriers. it is a pity to remove them because it will increase global economic competition with china or india. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as the committee had recommended in its report, i voted in favour of these technical requirements for wheeled vehicles. i also welcome the fact that these requirements are uniformly applicable throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is a process of harmonising approvals and regulations for motor vehicles and their spare parts. the harmonization process is supposed to be carried out through the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), where the text wants to attract india and china by raising the majority threshold to 4/5 (from 2/3 previously). the text thus endorses a catastrophic increase in global economic competition by advocating the removal of some of the few non-tariff barriers which still protect our industries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft council decision on the conclusion of the third revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles. the unece, which has existed since 1947 to encourage economic cooperation between member states, aims to harmonize approvals and regulations on motor vehicles and spare parts. while i can understand the advantages of such harmonisation (a vehicle type-approved in one part is automatically type-approved in the other), which allows for a certain rationalization in view of the issues of safety or environmental protection, i reject the underlying objective, namely global technological harmonisation. the threshold for a majority of votes in the unece has just been raised, in particular to attract countries such as china (which still does not have the status of a recognised market economy) and india. moreover, these differences in rules allowed states to create non-tariff barriers, which is not without advantages in the case where the country in question has more demanding standards, in particular environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ the global harmonisation of technical regulations and approvals in the fields of safety, environmental protection and other fields, as pursued by the united nations economic commission for europe, will result in increased global economic competition in this particularly important sector, particularly in terms of employment. this will be all the more felt as the aim of such an approach is to involve india and china in this process, in a context of lowering customs barriers. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to harmonise the type-approval and regulations governing the production and marketing of motor vehicles in the member states of the united nations economic and social council. this body is composed of the member states of the european union, the united states, canada, israel and the central asian republics. first, we contest the legitimacy of this body, whose initial objective was to promote economic cooperation between member states. on the other hand, this artificial harmonization of regulations will serve as a pretext for these international organizations to remove once and for all the tariff and non-tariff barriers which protect us from unbridled globalisation. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ as regards the vote on the lange report (uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles: unece (inta)), it should be noted that this non-legislative report concerns the harmonisation of the regulations on the agreement between the economic commission for europe and the united nations (unece). the agreement, signed in 1958, has established common safety and environmental standards and contributes to improving road safety worldwide. it avoids divergent legislation between member states and duplication of administrative procedures. considering that it is essential that the union is able to present clear and effective proposals at the unece meeting in june 2016 to amend the 1958 agreement, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles. these harmonised requirements are drawn up by the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and are intended to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the parties to the 1958 agreement. the report aims to take the necessary measures to amend the 1958 agreement and thus revive the automobile industry, which is a central economic sector for the european union.
in writing. ‒ regulatory cooperation in the automotive sector is conducted at global level within the un framework. the european body responsible is the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), set up in 1947, which aims to harmonise approvals and regulations on motor vehicles and spare parts. by raising the majority threshold to 4/5 for votes in the unece, this text aims to include china and india in this process. these different rules by continent or country had the advantage of creating non-tariff barriers and ensuring consumer safety. their disappearance is harmful in that it will increase global economic competition. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i vote against: the objective is global technological harmonisation. the increase in the majority threshold to 4/5 is hoped to attract china and india to this process. these different rules by continent or country had the advantage of constituting non-tariff barriers. it is harmful to remove them because it will increase global economic competition while allowing each party to effectively control the safety of vehicles sold on its territory.
in writing. ‒ the aim is global technological harmonisation. the increase in the majority threshold to 4/5 is hoped to attract china and india to this process. these different rules by continent or country had the advantage of constituting non-tariff barriers. it is harmful to remove them because it will increase global economic competition while allowing each party to effectively control the safety of vehicles sold on its territory. that is why i am voting against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and spare parts. the central objective of this text is to enable a wide dissemination of european standards for vehicles, in order to strengthen international trade for the automotive industry and to eliminate non-tariff barriers to trade in vehicles.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it promotes global technological harmonisation which will encourage the import of chinese and indian vehicles into europe. i am in favour of intelligent protectionism in this area, both to protect our manufacturers and to ensure the safety of consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles (unece agreement). the automotive sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of eu gdp. regulatory cooperation at global level is carried out within the un framework, with the european body being the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the purpose of this committee is to harmonize the type-approval and regulations for motor vehicles and spare parts (safety, theft, environmental protection, etc.). a vehicle approved in one part shall be automatically approved in another part. if there are problems with the type approval of a part, corrective mechanisms are provided. a party may withdraw from this process with one year's notice. the majority for votes in the unece will be reduced from 2/3 to 4/5. the aim is global technological harmonisation. by raising the majority threshold to 4/5, it is hoped to attract china and india into this process. these different rules by continent or country had the advantage of creating non-tariff barriers, while allowing each party to effectively control the safety of vehicles sold on its territory. it's a shame to take them off.
in writing. ‒ global regulatory cooperation is under the aegis of the united nations. the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) has been working, in conjunction with the united nations economic and social council (ecosoc), of which it has been a regional committee since 1947, to harmonize the approvals of motor vehicle and spare parts regulations. the aim is to obtain identical materials and vehicles worldwide. the main thrust of the text is to change the voting rules within the unece and to reduce the two-thirds majority of the votes of the 56 member states to four-fifths. the commission is therefore hoping to win over china and india and to draw them into its fold. this seduction operation will eliminate the non-tariff barriers maintained by national regulations and will be detrimental to national economies. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the automotive sector represents 12 million people and 4% of the european union's gdp. established in 1947 and comprising 56 member states, the unece is one of the five commissions of the united nations economic and social committee. with an annual budget of $50 million, it is designed to harmonize vehicle regulations and approvals. the reform consists, in particular, in an increase in the majority required for voting from 2/3 to 4/5. this change is aimed at increasing the involvement of china and india. we are therefore concerned that this harmonisation, extended to these countries, will lead to an intensification of world competition to the detriment of european countries and, in particular, france.
in writing. ‒ in approving the lange report, the european parliament endorsed a common position of the european union on the revision of an agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece/unece) which sets uniform technical requirements for the automotive industry. this technical standardization at international level will benefit french manufacturers, many of whom continue to consider the multilateral route (unlike, for example, ttip) as the most appropriate to engage in a regulatory coordination process. the aim is to harmonise safety standards to the highest level, while facilitating intra- and extra-european exports in what are known as 'global value chains'. the challenge is considerable: more than 12 million european workers depend directly or indirectly on the automotive sector (steel, chemicals, computer science, etc.). as it is a clever example of regulatory harmonisation on purely technical components - and moreover, at the multilateral level, 56 countries are represented at unece - i supported the lange report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to establish uniform technical requirements in the automotive sector for the member countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the aim is therefore to remove non-tariff barriers between european countries but also the united states, canada, israel and the central asian republics. while the recommendation is aimed at enhancing security, it also joins the ongoing negotiations between the eu and the us under ttip and/or between the eu and canada under ceta in its pursuit of removing 'unnecessary barriers to trade'. i shall abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the recommendation is global technological harmonisation. the advantage of the different rules and approvals per continent was that they constituted non-tariff barriers, particularly with regard to india and china. the direct consequence of such a development will therefore be increased competition on a global level. that is why i opposed this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the unece was established in 1947 to encourage economic cooperation between member states. it is one of the five regional commissions of the united nations economic and social council (ecosoc). the purpose of this committee is to harmonize the type-approval and regulations for motor vehicles and spare parts (safety, theft, environmental protection, etc.). the majority for votes in the unece will be reduced from 2/3 to 4/5. the aim here is global technological harmonisation. the increase in the majority threshold to 4/5 is hoped to attract china and india to this process. these different rules by continent or country had the advantage of constituting non-tariff barriers. it is harmful to remove them because it will increase global economic competition while allowing each party to effectively control the safety of vehicles sold on its territory. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is global technological harmonisation. the increase in the majority threshold to 4/5 is hoped to attract china and india to this process. different rules by continent or country had the advantage of creating non-tariff barriers. it is harmful to remove them because it will increase global economic competition while also taking away from each party their ability to effectively control the safety of vehicles sold on its territory. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles. the global technological harmonization in this field is a means of guaranteeing safety to users while promoting fairer competition between all the industrialists in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is global technological harmonisation. the increase in the majority threshold to four fifths is hoped to attract china and india to the process. different rules by continent or country had the advantage of creating non-tariff barriers. it is harmful to remove them because it will increase global economic competition while also depriving each party of its ability to effectively control the safety of vehicles sold on its territory. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ at international level, the unece global forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations is developing harmonised requirements (including safety and environmental requirements) to remove technical barriers to trade in vehicles. i voted in favour of this text, which is in line with the cars 2020 action plan, for which i was rapporteur, and which states that acceptance of internationally harmonised vehicle regulations by the european union's trading partners will be an effective way of eliminating non-tariff barriers to trade in vehicles. the central objective is therefore to promote the dissemination of these european standards to as many countries as possible which would gradually join the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations, in order to strengthen international trade for the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the third revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions ('revised 1958 agreement'). the european parliament has voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement. the automotive industry and related ancillary activities are a central economic sector for the european union. the sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of the eu's gdp. the union, as a contracting party to the agreement, should therefore take the necessary measures for the adoption of the proposed amendments to the 1958 agreement.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is technological harmonisation on a global scale, with the hope of drawing china and india into this process. different rules by continent or country could have the advantage of protecting homogeneous markets and maintaining sovereign safety standards. the risk of increasing global competition through the harmonization of standards is that quality standards will be lowered and thus the safety of users and consumers. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the agreement allows croatia to be added to the 2012 trade agreement between the union, colombia and peru. i abstained on this text because, even though the agreement does not concern france, i am opposed to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical recommendation which aims to adapt the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, taking into account the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on this agreement, which allows croatia to be added to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement of 2012, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these recommendations on trade agreements which naturally take account of croatia's accession to the european union
in writing. ‒ this recommendation does not directly concern france but aims to integrate croatia into the 2012 eu-colombia-peru trade agreement. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the taking into account of the accession of croatia to the european union in the framework of the trade agreement between the union and colombia and peru. the additional protocol to the trade agreement is in itself nothing more than a legislative harmonisation to update the agreement already concluded between the union, peru and colombia. however, i reject the very principle of these trade agreements concluded by the union on behalf of the member states with third countries: not only do they not allow the defence of the commercial interests of each member state and its people, but they are often rooted in an ultra-liberal logic harmful to the well-being of the people.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to amend this trade agreement to take account of the accession of croatia. i am not opposed to this amendment, but i would like to point out that i am strongly opposed to the basic trade agreement. i therefore abstained on this amendment.
in writing. ‒ following its accession to the european union, croatia is required to ratify the agreements that the union has concluded with third countries. the trade agreement between the union, colombia and peru, signed in 2012, therefore requires the approval of the european parliament to enter into force in croatia. although there is no reason to oppose this report, which is the legal consequence of croatia's accession, we would like to reiterate our opposition to the indefinite enlargement of the european union and to the tariff concessions granted to emerging countries. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report concerns the inclusion of croatia, as a member of the union, in the implementation of the trade agreement negotiated by the european union with peru and colombia. i have supported this report, considering that croatia should be taken into account and recognised as a partner in this trade agreement in the context of its accession to the european union.
in writing. i supported this report on croatia's accession to the eu trade agreement with colombia and peru. as croatia acceded to the european union after the signature of the trade agreement, the trade agreement should take into account the accession of croatia and croatia should participate in that agreement.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to add croatia, the latest country to join the european union, to the 2012 trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. it's not about france. i did not vote in favour of the trade agreement, but i did respect the sovereignty of croatia.
in writing. ‒ abstention to express our disapproval of the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru.
in writing. ‒ this agreement allows croatia to join the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement of 2012. i decided to abstain to express my disapproval of the trade agreement with colombia and peru.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to take account of the accession of croatia in the framework of the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this agreement only allows croatia to be added to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement of 2012.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. the agreement just allows croatia to join the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement of 2012. i abstained to express my disapproval of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the text is to approve, on behalf of the european union, the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the union, colombia and peru. it allows the republic of croatia to be included in this trade agreement, signed in 2012 between the eu, colombia and peru. although the text is the logical follow-up to croatia's eu accession process, i disagree with the trade agreement with colombia and peru. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. this report concerns the accession of croatia to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru, the additional protocol to which was signed in 2012. it's not about france. however, in line with our opposition to the trade policy of the european union, we abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the fisas ayxelà report was purely technical in nature and aimed at endorsing the updating of the trade agreement, which entered into force in 2013, between the european union, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, in order to take account of croatia's accession to the european union, which took place in the meantime. while i voted in favour of this procedural development, i will remain attentive to the first reviews of the implementation of the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, in particular as regards the impact of the liberalisation of trade in goods and services on human rights, social rights, the reduction of inequalities and the environment.
in writing. ‒ this so-called 'technical' vote concerns the addition of croatia, now an eu member, as a party to the eu-colombia-peru agreement signed one year before its accession. the first mistake: this agreement with colombia and peru has already largely entered into force, even though not all the member states have ratified it yet. secondly, i have denounced this agreement from the beginning both for economic reasons of promoting a particularly destructive free trade and for political reasons aimed at weakening the andean community of nations (can: bolivia, colombia, ecuador, peru). finally, i am opposed to the latest waves of enlargement orchestrated for the sole purpose of amplifying the movement of social and fiscal dumping in the union. and without a single people ever being consulted on these integrations. so i have not one but three good reasons to vote against.
in writing. ‒ this agreement allows croatia to join the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement of 2012. he doesn't touch france. however, disapproved of the trade agreement itself, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this agreement allows croatia to join the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement of 2012. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ as i am against the trade agreement with colombia and peru, i abstain on this text which includes croatia.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to give parliament's approval to croatia's accession to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. as croatia joined the european union only on 1 july 2013, it was not a party to that convention, although as a member state it has a full place in it. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed in principle to the trade agreement with colombia and peru. but the text to be voted on is only a technical adjustment linked to croatia's accession to the union. therefore, i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru was signed in june 2012. i voted in favour of this recommendation approving the conclusion of the additional protocol on the participation of croatia in this trade agreement, as the country's participation is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows for croatia's accession to be taken into account in the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other. the european parliament voted in favour of the council's decision to include croatia in the commitments in areas such as public procurement, trade in services, establishment and e-commerce, rules of origin and to take account of the croatian language in the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this text on enhanced cooperation in the field of international marriage regimes. indeed, enhanced cooperation is undoubtedly a prerequisite for the unification of the legal rules on the matrimonial property regimes of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. there is a danger that future interference with national legislation on the family, an area which falls exclusively within the competence of the member states, will be necessary.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, i have given my consent to the enhanced cooperation proposed by the council on two regulations establishing a common european framework for the rules applicable to international matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for enhanced cooperation as a prerequisite for the standardisation of legal rules on the matrimonial property regimes of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, the fruit of a long work by my colleague jean-marie cavada, because it adopts new rules on the matrimonial property regime of international couples. the aim is to clarify the legal position of these couples in the event of divorce or death. it is time for a european instrument on the rules governing matrimonial property regimes. now, international couples from all forms of unions will benefit from legal certainty, better access to justice and harmonised rules. this concerns the 16 million international couples living in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation concerns the standardisation of international couples' property regimes, asking parliament to approve 'enhanced cooperation' in this area. this 'enhanced cooperation' appears above all to be a prerequisite for the uniformity of the courts, which in effect allows the commission to intervene in national legislation on the family. i therefore voted against this report, which is another attempt by the commission to force its way through areas which are not supposed to be within its competence.
in writing. i voted against this report on enhanced cooperation in the field of international marriage regimes. this system is in fact aimed at harmonising the rules on the conflict of laws, jurisdiction and enforcement of decisions relating to the matrimonial property regimes of international couples, which carries the risk of leading to a submission of national law to european law in this field. in this case, we have a new example of brussels' enforcement, since hungary and poland had managed to block the commission's original proposals in 2011. the aim is to bypass the blockade imposed by the 'obstacle states' in order to be able to impose a single family policy on the other member states, a brutal procedure which we reject.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation is undoubtedly a prerequisite for the standardisation of legal rules on the matrimonial property regime of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. there is a fear that national legislation on the family will be tampered with in the future. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report looks at the possibility of enhanced cooperation between 23 member states on the matrimonial property regime of international couples. this is a sensitive issue as national legal systems differ across europe on this issue. if enhanced cooperation must always be a last resort after attempting to reach agreement with all the member states, if cooperation with all 28 member states is impossible. i would like to remind you that enhanced cooperation is very much governed by the european treaties in order to respect the rights of citizens of the member states which do not participate in this cooperation. considering that more than 14 million european citizens live in a member state other than their home state, and that they face tedious administrative procedures in the event of international marriages, and that there is a need to alleviate these administrative obstacles, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text allowing for enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of international matrimonial property regimes, concerning matters relating to both matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships. it seems to me essential to ensure legal certainty for international couples and to simplify the circulation of authentic instruments throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because international couples face too many difficulties, both in managing their property and in dividing the community in the event of separation or death of one of the spouses. it is therefore necessary to achieve harmonisation of community rules in this field. i supported this report to make it easier for these international couples to manage their property and to give them greater legal security. this report simplifies administrative procedures and provides equal treatment for all couples, regardless of the form of marriage or union by which they are bound.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation is a prerequisite for the standardisation of legal rules on the matrimonial property regimes of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. it is therefore an interference with national family legislation. for these reasons, i voted against this text, which follows the non-participation of denmark, ireland, the united kingdom and the blockage of hungary and poland in the negotiations on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011.
in writing. - i vote against it. enhanced cooperation is a prerequisite for the standardisation of the legal rules on the matrimonial property regime of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation is a prerequisite for the standardisation of legal rules on the matrimonial property regimes of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to allow the establishment of enhanced cooperation between 17 member states on international couple's property regimes. such cooperation should create a clear and comprehensive legal framework and better protect european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it favours eu interference in national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the text is to obtain parliament's approval to use the enhanced cooperation procedure concerning the jurisdiction of international marriage regimes. however, this procedure is intended to be used as a last resort, in order to respect the treaties and eu law. however, since the non-participation of denmark, ireland, the united kingdom, and the blockage of hungary and poland on the negotiations of the original proposals made by the commission in 2011, the latter is trying to pass in force. the adoption of the text will pave the way for the standardisation of the rules on matrimonial property regimes, which constitutes a breach of the sovereignty of the member states in the area of the family. i voted against it in a very strong way.
in writing. ‒ there are no european standards on matrimonial property regimes. no european instrument therefore applies to the property consequences of registered partnerships. the two proposals for council regulations aim to establish harmonised community rules on matrimonial property regimes and the property consequences of registered partnerships, on conflicts of laws, on jurisdiction, on mutual recognition and on the enforcement of decisions in these matters. these texts, which are submitted to the european parliament for its opinion, are likely to provide greater legal certainty for married couples or couples in a registered partnership and to guarantee easier access to justice and greater predictability in the management of their property. they therefore represent an important step forward in the dissolution of marriage and partnership, since they put all forms of marriage or partnership on the same level, thus allowing equal treatment for all couples. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ parliament supports the council's proposal to establish enhanced cooperation between 17 voluntary member states to facilitate the recognition of a marriage or civil partnership between two citizens of different nationalities in their own countries. this principle of mutual recognition will have practical benefits for the daily lives of more than half of the european population in terms of matrimonial regimes and the property consequences of the separation of couples. the property regimes of couples will be governed by a single law, the law of the state with which the couple has the closest links, and they will be able to choose the law to be applied to their property in the event of separation on the same basis. this cooperation will therefore cover same-sex marriages when both states have recognized these rights, which of course did not fail to wake up the reactionaries of "the manif for all". i am voting for this cooperation between states, which will bring greater legal security to millions of couples in europe, regardless of their sex or nationality.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation is a prerequisite for the standardisation of legal rules on the property regimes of international couples, whether married or in a partnership. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the enhanced cooperation proposed to be ratified here is a prerequisite for the unification of the rules on conflicts of laws, jurisdiction and enforcement of decisions concerning the matrimonial property regimes of international couples. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family, an area in which it is necessary to maintain full sovereignty for the states, given the considerable differences that may exist in this area with our neighbours. the vote will therefore be against.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation in the field of matrimonial property regimes is a prerequisite for the harmonisation of legal rules on the matrimonial property regimes of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the proposal for a council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in international marriage contracts. in a european union which is striving to put in place common legislation in order to avoid conflicts of law and jurisdiction as much as possible, the adoption of such a report is part of that process which i support.
in writing. ‒ enhanced cooperation in the field of matrimonial property regimes is a prerequisite for the harmonisation of legal rules on the matrimonial property regimes of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes of international couples, that is, of two different nationalities. this enhanced cooperation will cover both matters relating to matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships. this demonstrates the usefulness of cooperation between states at european level to further protect citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ the decision to use enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of international couples' property regimes, covering matters relating to both matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships, comes after the non-participation of denmark, ireland, the united kingdom and the blocking of negotiations by hungary and poland on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011. enhanced cooperation is a prerequisite for the standardisation of the legal rules on the matrimonial property regime of international couples, whether married or in a registered partnership. it is therefore an interference with national legislation on the family. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products. while i support the fight against this kind of trade and cooperation between sovereign states to this end, i am opposed to any measure aimed at the creation of a european criminal law and a european federal police. i voted in favour of the szejnfeld report, which, again in the context of the fight against illicit tobacco trade, aims to combat smuggling while respecting the sovereignty of countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which is intended to send a signal to the member states to ratify, as soon as possible, the additional protocol to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control and its provisions on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ the eu signed the world health organisation's protocol on tobacco control to eliminate the illicit trade in tobacco in 2013. the protocol must be ratified by 40 parties before it enters into force. illicit trade in tobacco products, including smuggling of cigarettes, causes the eu (and its member states) to lose huge amounts of revenue in terms of evasion of taxes and customs duties. it is estimated that the union and the member states suffer revenue losses of more than eur 10 billion each year. the legal sale of tobacco generates more than €90 billion in tax revenue for the member states each year. about one in ten cigarettes are sold illegally. this report deals with judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but we reject the eu's use of this global fight led by the who as a pretext for developing a european criminal law and a european federal police. on the other hand, cooperation between sovereign states must be supported. i therefore abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to give the european union the legitimacy and the necessary weapons to fight effectively against the illicit trade in tobacco products. this illicit trade often finances illegal practices and is done to the detriment of the consumer by a haphazard application of standards in favour of the health of the users of these products.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to combat the illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, which is a double problem, both in terms of public health in that it facilitates access to tobacco products, often at lower cost and also in terms of financial costs, since more than 10 billion customs duties are avoided every year across the eu. in order to eradicate this smuggling, the commission encourages the development of judicial cooperation in criminal matters; the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the hostages. i could not therefore vote in favour of this report and i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products by the protocol to the who framework convention. i believe that cooperation is essential to eliminate the illicit trade in tobacco, which is not only a serious threat to public security but also a major loss of tax revenue for the member states. it is estimated that over €10 billion is lost each year, mainly due to cigarette smuggling. at the same time, the legal sale of tobacco generates around €90 billion in tax revenue for member states. however, i fear that the union will only take over this legitimate struggle waged by the who for the purpose of europeanising criminal law. as in many other areas, the solution lies in cooperation between sovereign states and not in the creation of a criminal law and a european federal police.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but i want to prevent the eu from using this global fight led by the who as a pretext to develop a european criminal law and a european federal police. on the other hand, cooperation between sovereign states must be supported. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this protocol aims to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products; it was ratified on 20 december 2013, subject to its conclusion at a later date. it is intended to combat illicit manufacture and eradicate counterfeiting of tobacco products in order to contribute to the protection of public health and to recover tax revenues linked to this trade. we are in full agreement with the philosophy and objectives of this protocol. i have, however, abstained on this report on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we do not want the european union to use the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products as a pretext for developing a european criminal law and a european federal police. we are, however, in favour of closer cooperation between the member states, respecting our national sovereignty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to conclude, on behalf of the european union, the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control. it is important to strengthen measures relating to police and customs cooperation in criminal matters in the face of this illicit trade, which represents a real danger to public health in europe.
in writing. ‒ on 20 december 2013, the european union signed the protocol to the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) to end the illicit trade in tobacco. it is a worrying public health issue and results in losses of around €10 billion in taxes and customs duties. the legal sale of tobacco generates more than €90 billion in tax revenue for the member states each year. this means that one out of every ten cigarettes is sold illegally. this report deals with judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is not desirable for the eu to use this global struggle led by the who as a pretext for the development of a european criminal law and a european federal police. however, cooperation between sovereign states should be supported. i therefore abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain: this report deals with judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we in the libe committee abstained for reasons of precaution. we support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but we want to prevent the eu from using this global fight led by the who as a pretext for developing a european criminal law and a european federal police. on the other hand, cooperation between sovereign states must be supported.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in the libe committee, our members abstained as a precaution. we support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but we want to prevent the eu from using this global fight led by the who as a pretext for developing a european criminal law and a european federal police. on the other hand, cooperation between sovereign states must be supported. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the ratification of the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco. this is a great victory for the health of europeans and a great defeat for the tobacco lobby. the who protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco will control the flow of tobacco from manufacture to delivery by providing for traceability that is strictly independent of tobacco manufacturers but paid for by them. it will take 40 ratifications to become legally binding, so the union's is a strong signal for member states to follow. the eu has already ratified the convention, but only five member states have so far done so.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, while i support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, i want to avoid the eu using this global fight led by the who as a pretext for developing a european criminal law and a european federal police.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on judicial cooperation in criminal matters to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products (protocol to the who framework convention). i support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products (which is why i voted for the szejnfeld report), but i would like to avoid the eu using this global fight led by the who as a pretext to develop a european criminal law and a european federal police. on the other hand, cooperation between sovereign states must be supported.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote focuses on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is part of the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc), signed on 20 december 2013, which aims to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. it is true that fraud in this area is a major economic burden for the states, which lose $10 billion a year in revenues normally derived from taxes on tobacco products. in addition, illicit trade has an impact on public health, as it provides a wide public with access to cheaper products, which encourages their consumption. i support the fight against these illegal activities and cooperation between sovereign states. however, to avoid the risk of the eu developing a european criminal law and a european federal police, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the european parliament's decision to commit the eu to the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products via the who protocol. the tobacco industry is heavily affected by this phenomenon, but it is above all a public health issue. and as such, the protocol recognizes the irreconcilable conflict between the interests of the tobacco industry and public health. the protocol also prohibits the delegation of the obligations relating to the control of these products to the tobacco industry. i am voting for the eu to accede to this protocol.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade in tobacco products is a major source of tax problems, but also of public health problems. while we of course support the fight against these criminal and dangerous practices for our fellow citizens, we also ensure that a european criminal law and a european federal police force are not developed, which would be detrimental to the sovereignty of our nations. we would therefore be in favour of cooperation between the member states in good faith. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ we support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but we must avoid the eu using this global fight led by the who as a pretext to develop a european criminal law and a european federal police, which is why we should abstain on this text. on the other hand, cooperation between sovereign states must be supported.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but i want to prevent the eu from using this global fight led by the who as a pretext to develop a european criminal law and a european federal police. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which aims to approve the conclusion by the council of the additional protocol to the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco products, which aims to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. this report concerns only the provisions of the protocol on judicial cooperation between states. in this context, i support the creation of a global tracking and traceability regime, a global information sharing point, and the maintenance of records and regulation of online sales. the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, which kills 6 million people a year, is not only aimed at fighting crime but also at reducing consumption.
in writing. ‒ i support the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but i want to prevent the eu from using this global fight led by the who as a pretext to develop a european criminal law and a european federal police. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control, as regards its provisions on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of criminal offences. this text is part of the ongoing and necessary fight to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. to this end, technical cooperation between law enforcement authorities must be strengthened, particularly at international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which gives the council our green light to conclude the agreement on the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, as regards its provisions falling under title v of part three of the treaty on the functioning of the european union relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. this is a protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control, whose objective i fully support. like the vote on the same protocol for the provisions not concerning the area of freedom, security and justice, i approve the measures contained here as they will help to combat the public health risk posed by tobacco to our societies, just as they will help to combat the €10 billion in financial losses caused by its illicit trade.
in writing. ‒ the european union signed the protocol to the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products on 20 december 2013. the protocol must be ratified by 40 parties before it enters into force. illicit trade in tobacco products, including smuggling of cigarettes, is a criminal activity that poses a serious public health risk because it facilitates access to tobacco products, often at lower cost. in addition, it causes the eu (and the member states) huge revenue losses in terms of evasive taxes and duties. it is estimated that the union and the member states suffer revenue losses of more than eur 10 billion each year. the legal sale of tobacco generates more than €90 billion in tax revenue for the member states each year. about one in ten cigarettes are sold illegally. this report deals with judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we want to avoid the eu using this global struggle led by the who as a pretext for developing a european criminal law and a european federal police. on the other hand, cooperation between sovereign states must be supported. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the commission proposed to extend the deadline for the entry into force of the mifid ii package by one year, to 3 january 2018. the package consists of better defining investor protection rules, establishing minimum sanction requirements or improving market organisation. the european securities and markets authority (esma) is responsible for collecting this data, in partnership with the national competent authorities and the trading venues themselves. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the contested regulation. the reasons are various: delay by market participants in providing the right information or by esma in producing the standards required for the implementation of the directive. this extension is therefore the result of a serious lack of cooperation between the actors concerned (esma and major international banks). this relief seems to be granted to institutional actors who are not diligent enough, and who should be exemplary. at a time when any measure to reduce financial instability within the eu should be a priority, i decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ following the positive outcome of the trilogue, i voted in favour of this legislative proposal on markets in financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the commission proposed to extend the deadline for the entry into force of the mifid ii package by one year, to 3 january 2018. to achieve these objectives, the european securities and markets authority is responsible for collecting data from some 300 trading venues. esma should therefore work closely with the national competent authorities and the trading venues themselves. however, it informed in 2015 that neither the competent authorities nor the market players would have the necessary systems by 3 january 2017, when the mifid ii package was initially to enter into force. this is a scandalous situation because the project has been under development since 2011. the delay is mainly due to the delay of market participants in providing information and implementing control tools, and the failure of esma to produce the regulatory technical standards (rts) needed for the development of regulation in time. i opposed this extension, which is unjustifiable in the context of the current financial instability and is a proof of the weakness of the power of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the committee had recommended in its report
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the commission proposed to extend the deadline for the entry into application of the mifid ii package by one year, i.e. to 3 january 2018. the package was introduced in response to the financial crisis in order to better regulate securities markets, in particular by increasing the transparency of derivatives markets and the supervision to which these markets are subject. however, the european securities and markets authority (esma) was responsible for collecting a number of data from trading venues, which it announced was impossible to achieve by 3 january 2017, the date on which the mifid ii package was initially due to come into force. this is a scandalous situation when the project has been under development since 2011 and political approvals were obtained in april 2014. either esma does not have the power to establish serious financial regulation, or it gives the big international banks additional leeway to continue to profit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. in any case, in this and other areas, promises were not to be made that could not be kept. for no one is forced to do the impossible. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote against this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards certain dates, directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments. this request for an extension of the implementation of the mifid ii package is scandalous and shows either the total incompetence of the european institutions or their collusion with the big international banks that are reluctant to implement the mifid ii package. this is understandable when one considers that this "package" follows the 2008 financial crisis and aims to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. however, the european securities and markets authority (esma) has so far been unable to ensure that competent authorities or market participants have the necessary platforms to collect data on around 15 million financial instruments; the project has been developed since 2011 and received the necessary political approvals in 2014. it is therefore unthinkable that an authority which clearly lacks the competence to establish serious financial regulation should be given more time.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to delay by one year, until 3 january 2018, the application of the mifid ii package and the mifir regulation. the objectives of this directive and regulation are to make the use of regulated platforms compulsory for certain transactions; to introduce rules on high frequency trading; enhance transparency and oversight of financial markets, including derivatives; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments. the apology of esma, which is responsible for the implementation of this directive, regarding the complexity of the task to be performed is not acceptable, as the political approvals were obtained as early as april 2014. either esma's experts are incompetent or they want to give the big international banks hostile to the mfid an extra breath of fresh air to continue to profit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the decision to postpone the entry into force of regulations on markets in financial instruments due to the delay in the establishment of implementing measures (delegated acts and technical standards). i have supported this report, considering that it does not make any substantive changes and that this postponement is necessary for the proper regulation of markets in financial instruments.
in writing. i supported the report on the commission proposal amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments. the aim is to postpone the date of transposition of the directive by one year in order to ensure legal certainty and to allow the implementation of the delegated acts and technical standards.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the commission proposed to extend the deadline for the entry into force of the mifid ii package by one year, until 3 january 2018. it makes the use of regulated platforms mandatory for certain transactions, introduces rules on high-frequency trading, and increases transparency and supervision of financial markets. it strengthens investor protection through strict organisational and conduct requirements. the european securities and markets authority is required to collect data on some 15 million financial instruments from 300 trading platforms in conjunction with national authorities. however, it informed in 2015 that neither the competent authorities nor the market players would have the necessary systems by 3 january 2017. the project has been under development since 2011 and political approvals have been obtained since 2014. i therefore voted against this extension, which is due to the procrastination of market players and the inability of the authority to produce the standards necessary for the development of the regulation in time.
in writing. ‒ i vote against: under the pretext of a technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish serious financial regulation, or it gives the big international banks that are reluctant to mifid an additional respite to continue to take advantage of the shortcomings of the current regulation.
in writing. ‒ the mifid package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. to achieve the objectives of the package, the european securities and markets authority (esma) is responsible for collecting data on some 15 million financial instruments from some 300 trading venues. esma should therefore work closely with the national competent authorities and the trading venues themselves. however, it informed in 2015 that neither the competent authorities nor the market players would have the necessary systems by 3 january 2017, when the mifid ii package was initially to enter into force. the project has been under development since 2011 and political approvals have been obtained since april 2014. i therefore opposed this extension, which is unjustifiable in the context of the current financial instability and is a proof of the weakness of the power of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the financial market organisation, which aims in particular to tackle the shadow areas of the fast-developing over-the-counter markets. the main objective of the two ferber reports is to postpone the date of transposition of the new directive to january 2018 due to the exceptional complexity of the rules to be applied.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to postpone by one year the entry into force of the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), which was voted in 2014. however, i am opposed to this additional time because the delay is more due to laxity on the part of the european securities and markets authority (esma) and procrastination by financial market participants than to obvious and foreseeable technical complexity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on markets in financial instruments. the text proposes to postpone by one year the entry into force of the directive on markets in financial instruments, mifid, adopted in 2014. the proposal is based on the fact that the competent authorities and market players would not have the information and control systems, staff and procedures necessary for the application of the regulation by january 2017. the delay is more due to laxity on the part of the european securities and markets authority (esma) and procrastination by financial market participants than to obvious and foreseeable technical complexity. moreover, this regulation has been under development since 2011 in order to respond to the problems raised by the 2008 financial crisis. i therefore do not want to tolerate another year to 10 years of delay in the regulation of financial products.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 financial crisis weakened the real estate market, investment firms and intermediaries. to overcome this problem and to promote better regulation, the european securities and markets authority (esma) has established a legislative package called mifid ii, consisting of two draft laws: a directive called mifid and a regulation, mifir. the package provides practical solutions such as the introduction of rules on high frequency trading, or the requirement to use regulated platforms for certain transactions. however, the project, which has been under development since 2011, has been subject to significant delays, due to foreseeable difficulties from the outset. the failure of market agents to provide information is the main cause, which is unacceptable. the report proposes to grant a one-year delay to the entry into application of the mifid ii package, and thus to ignore this unjustifiable fact. i cannot accept it and i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the mifid ii package consists of the directive (mifid) and a regulation (mifir). it aims to improve the regulation of securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. the package includes rules on high-frequency trading, financial market transparency and enhanced investor protection through strict organisational and conduct requirements. to achieve these objectives, the european securities and markets authority must therefore collect data on some 15 million financial instruments from some 300 trading platforms. however, the competent market authorities were slow to put in place the appropriate systems. we therefore oppose this unjustifiable extension in the context of the current financial instability.
in writing. ‒ financial market regulation is an imperative shared by the vast majority of citizens, who have had to suffer the ravages of financial innovation, bad ratings, toxic derivatives that have contaminated the global economy down to the smallest bank. the mifid directive was the first response of the european union after the crisis. this was to be strengthened as quickly as possible by mifid 2 ... which is still not in force due to lack of resources made available by the commission. the regulation must be postponed until 2018 because of the lack of technical and human preparation of the competent services of the european commission. it is also a boon for the financial markets. however, to oppose the postponement of the application of the text would only expose the commission and the national authorities to legal uncertainty. so act. i voted in favour of the postponement, with a broad consensus in the european parliament, but i reminded the commission that this was not a blanket attempt to slow down the pace of regulation, particularly 'delegated acts', decrees on which parliament has very little say.
in writing. ‒ in order to increase the transparency of financial markets, the eu has adopted new provisions. the framework established by regulation (eu) no 600/2014 and directive 2014/65/eu sets out requirements for the authorisation and functioning of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. these regulations also introduce rules on high-frequency trading and improve financial market surveillance by harmonising administrative sanctions. and once these guidelines are in place, a state will be able to introduce limits on the contracts an investor holds on commodity derivatives (wheat, soybeans, sugar), given their potential impact on price formation. the report introduces certain derogations and postpones the implementation of these regulations for one year. i am voting against this text, which rejects the few attempts to regulate the financial markets.
in writing. ‒ the mfid package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. esma shall be responsible for collecting data in collaboration with national authorities and trading venues. however, esma is slow to develop rts and market participants are slow to provide the requested information. we therefore oppose this unjustifiable extension in the context of the current financial instability; the eu institutions are weak. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the commission proposed to extend the deadline for the entry into force of the mifid ii package by one year, to 3 january 2018. this package consists of a directive (mifid) and a regulation (mifir). mifid ii regulates the activities of investment firms, sets out rules for the protection of investors and sets out minimum requirements for sanctions. the mifir regulation deals with the organisation of markets, access to the european market for third country companies and the powers of supervisory authorities. the mifid package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. we therefore oppose this extension which is unjustifiable in the context of the current financial instability and which is a proof of the weakness of the power of the eu institutions. under the pretext of technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish a sound financial regulation or gives the big international banks additional leeway to continue to benefit from the shortcomings of the current regulation.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish a serious financial regulation or it gives the big international banks that are reluctant to mifid an additional reprieve to continue to benefit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report amends certain dates of the regulations on financial instruments, market abuse and improving securities settlement in the european union. this report does not touch on the substance of all the texts it amends. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish a serious financial regulation or it gives the big international banks that are reluctant to mifid an additional reprieve to continue to benefit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which sets out technical amendments to the entry into force of the directive to improve the efficiency and transparency of financial instruments (mifid 2). the commission will present a report on the implementation of the new rules in the member states. to return to sustainable growth, these markets must win the trust of investors, not create mistrust.
in writing. ‒ the mifid package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. to achieve its objectives, the european securities and markets authority (esma) is responsible for collecting data on some 15 million financial instruments from some 300 trading venues. however, it informed in 2015 that neither the competent authorities nor the market players would have the necessary systems by 3 january 2017, when the mifid ii package was initially to enter into force. the delay is mainly due to the delay of market participants in providing information and implementing control tools, and the inability of esma. we therefore oppose this extension which is unjustifiable in the context of the current financial instability and which is a proof of the weakness of the power of the eu institutions. under the pretext of technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish a serious financial regulation or it gives the big international banks that are reluctant to mifid an additional reprieve to continue to take advantage of the shortcomings of the current regulation. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this is a proposal for a regulation to amend three others, relating to the introduction of financial regulations, such as the obligation to use regulated platforms for certain transactions, the introduction of rules on high-frequency trading and the increase in the transparency of financial markets (derivatives, etc.). for reasons similar to those which led to the decision to postpone the application of the markets in financial instruments directive, several changes in dates are proposed. delaying such measures at the moment on the pretext of the complexity of their implementation is unreasonable. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ following the progress made in the trilogue, particularly on transparency issues, i voted in favour of these regulations on markets in financial instruments and market abuse.
in writing. ‒ for the same reasons as for the vote on report a8-126/2016, i opposed this report as it is the same request for a one-year extension of the deadline for the application of the regulations contained in the mifid ii package.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ the mifid directive is aimed in particular at preventing banks from continuing to sell anything to anyone, i.e. high-risk assets to uninformed and vulnerable customers. the report we are voting on now proposes to postpone the implementation of this directive until 2018, 10 years after the subprime crisis! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. either the european securities and markets authority (esma) does not have the power to establish serious financial regulation, or it gives the big international banks additional leeway to continue to profit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. in any case, in this and other areas, promises were not to be made that could not be kept. for no one is forced to do the impossible. how can the commission combat the greed of the banks when it is constantly promoting the most unrestrained free trade? in reality, beyond the grand declarations of principle, it is your ultra-liberal software that prevents you from better regulating the activities of speculative finance.
in writing. ‒ in line with the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards certain dates, the markets in financial instruments directive 2014/65/eu, i voted against this text which also calls for the approval of an additional deadline, this time for the regulations contained in the mifid ii package. as a reminder, both reports want to postpone the implementation of the mifid ii package until 3 january 2018, a year behind a project launched in 2011. the mifir regulation contained in mifid ii deals with market organisation, access to the european market by third country companies and the powers of supervisory authorities. it is therefore too serious a matter to be satisfied with a small slap on the head of esma without calling into question its incompetence, or even its dubious conciliation with the big banks. the main objectives of the package, such as the introduction of high-frequency trading rules or the increase in the transparency of financial markets, in particular derivatives markets, do not therefore seem to be a priority for the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to delay by one year, until 3 january 2018, the application of the mifid ii package and the mifir regulation. the objectives of this directive and regulation are to make the use of regulated platforms compulsory for certain transactions; to introduce rules on high frequency trading; enhance transparency and oversight of financial markets, including derivatives; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's financial instruments. the apology of esma, which is responsible for the implementation of this directive, regarding the complexity of the task to be performed is not acceptable, as the political approvals were obtained as early as april 2014. either esma's experts are incompetent or they want to give the big international banks that are hostile to the mfid an extra respite to continue to profit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the decision to postpone the entry into force of regulations on markets in financial instruments due to the delay in the establishment of implementing measures on market abuse and securities regulations. considering that this report does not make any substantive changes, and that this postponement is necessary for the proper establishment of regulations on markets in financial instruments in the field of market abuse, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the commission proposal amending the regulations on markets in financial instruments, market abuse and securities regulation. the report shall specify the circumstances in which pre-negotiation transparency would not apply to bundles of transactions, or to any element of such bundles taken individually.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the one-year extension of the deadline for the application of the regulations contained in the mifid ii package. the new regulation makes the use of regulated platforms mandatory for certain transactions, introduces rules on high-frequency trading, and increases transparency and supervision of financial markets. it strengthens investor protection by setting strict organisational and conduct requirements. the delay is due to the procrastination of market participants and the inability of esma to produce the regulatory technical standards (rts) necessary for the development of the regulation in time. the project has been under development since 2011 and political approvals have been obtained since 2014.
in writing. ‒ i vote against: under the pretext of a technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish serious financial regulation, or it gives the big international banks that are reluctant to mifid an additional respite to continue to take advantage of the shortcomings of the current regulation.
in writing. ‒ the mifid package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. to achieve the objectives of the package, the european securities and markets authority (esma) is responsible for collecting data on some 15 million financial instruments from some 300 trading venues. esma should therefore work closely with the national competent authorities and the trading venues themselves. however, it informed in 2015 that neither the competent authorities nor the market players would have the necessary systems by 3 january 2017, when the mifid ii package was initially to enter into force. the project has been under development since 2011 and political approvals have been obtained since april 2014. i therefore opposed this extension, which is unjustifiable in the context of the current financial instability and is a proof of the weakness of the power of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the financial market organisation, which aims in particular to tackle the shadow areas of the fast-developing over-the-counter markets. the main objective of the two ferber reports is to postpone the date of transposition of the new directive to january 2018 due to the exceptional complexity of the rules to be applied.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to postpone by one year the entry into force of the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), which was voted in 2014. however, i am opposed to this additional time because the delay is more due to laxity on the part of the european securities and markets authority (esma) and procrastination by financial market participants than to obvious and foreseeable technical complexity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on markets in financial instruments, market abuse and securities settlement. the text proposes to postpone by one year the entry into force of the regulation on markets in financial instruments, mifir, adopted in 2014. the proposal is based on the fact that the competent authorities and market players would not have the information and control systems, staff and procedures necessary for the application of the regulation by january 2017. this delay is more due to laxity on the part of the european securities and markets authority (esma) and procrastination by financial market participants than to obvious and foreseeable technical complexity. in addition, this regulation has been under development since 2011 in order to respond to the problems brought to light by the 2008 financial crisis. i therefore do not want to tolerate another year of delay in the regulation of financial products.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 financial crisis weakened the real estate market, investment firms and intermediaries. to overcome this problem and to promote better regulation, the european securities and markets authority (esma) has established a legislative package called mifid ii, consisting of two draft directives: a directive called mifid and a regulation, mifir. the package provides practical solutions such as the introduction of rules on high-frequency trading or the obligation to use regulated platforms for certain transactions. however, the project, which has been in the works since 2011, has been subject to significant delays due to difficulties that were foreseeable from the outset. the failure of market agents to provide information is the main cause, which is unacceptable. the report proposes to grant a one-year delay to the entry into force of the mifid ii package, and thus to ignore this unjustifiable fact. i cannot accept it and i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this is the same request for a one-year extension of the period of application of the regulations contained in the mifid ii package.
in writing. ‒ the mifid package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. esma shall be responsible for collecting data in collaboration with national authorities and trading venues. however, esma is slow to develop rts and market participants are slow to provide the requested information. we therefore oppose this unjustifiable extension in the context of the current financial instability, which is proof of the weakness of the power of the union's institutions. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in february 2016, the commission proposed to extend the deadline for the entry into force of the mifid ii package by one year to 3 january 2018. this package consists of a directive (mifid) and a regulation (mifir). mifid ii regulates the activities of investment firms, sets out rules for the protection of investors and sets out minimum requirements for sanctions. the mifir regulation deals with the organisation of markets, access to the european market for third country companies and the powers of supervisory authorities. the mifid package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. we therefore oppose this extension, which is unjustifiable in the context of the current financial instability and which is a sign of the weakness of the power of the union's institutions. the commission's request, under the pretext of technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, either proves that esma is not competent to establish a sound financial regulation or gives the major international banks additional leeway to continue to take advantage of the shortcomings of the current regulation.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish a serious financial regulation, or it gives the large international banks that are reluctant to the mifid package an additional reprieve to continue to benefit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report amends certain dates of the regulations on financial instruments, market abuse and improving securities settlement in the european union. the report does not touch on the substance of all the texts it amends. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, the commission's request either proves that esma is not competent to establish a serious financial regulation, or it gives the large international banks that are reluctant to the mifid package an additional reprieve to continue to benefit from the shortcomings of the current regulation. i therefore vote against this scandalous text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on markets in financial instruments, market abuse and securities settlement, in continuity with the text on technical amendments to the entry into force of the directive to improve the efficiency and transparency of financial markets (mifid 2).
in writing. ‒ the mifir package was introduced in response to the financial crisis to better regulate securities markets, investment firms and intermediaries. to achieve its objectives, the european securities and markets authority is responsible for collecting data on some 15 million financial instruments from some 300 trading platforms. however, it informed in 2015 that neither the competent authorities nor the market players would have the necessary systems by 3 january 2017, when the legislative package was initially to enter into force. the delay is mainly due to the delay of market participants in providing information and implementing control tools and the inability of esma. we therefore oppose this extension, which is unjustifiable in the context of the current financial instability and which is a sign of the weakness of the power of the union's institutions. the commission's request, citing technical complexity evident from the outset of the project, either proves that esma is not competent to establish a sound financial regulation or gives the major international banks that are reluctant to the mifir package additional leeway to continue to benefit from the shortcomings of the current regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. the social democratic minister of finance of the republic of lithuania highlights the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds as its main achievements. i therefore opposed his appointment for these reasons. moreover, the candidate has no audit experience, unlike the vast majority of the court's members who are former judges or auditors. i therefore felt that his profile was not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ as a reminder, the court of auditors functions as a collegiate body of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the members shall elect one of their number as chairman for a renewable term of three years. i supported this nomination. the candidate answered our questions satisfactorily at the hearing before the committee on constitutional affairs. this audition has shown that he is a competent, well-prepared and motivated candidate.
in writing. ‒ the case concerned the appointment of a member of the court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on their appointment for an opinion. the applicant is the social democratic minister of finance of the republic of lithuania; he has been a member of the political bureau of the social democratic party since 1990. it highlights the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds as its main achievements. i voted against the appointment of this socialist apparatchik.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this appointment, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i cannot give a favourable opinion on the nomination of mr rimantas šadžius to the court of auditors: as the social democratic finance minister of the republic of lithuania, he presents the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement of the management and control of the union's funds as his main achievements. "successes" are mixed, to say the least.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the appointment of rimantas sadzius to the european court of auditors. first of all, i find it worrying that the european parliament is consulted only for its opinion on the appointment of the members of the court of auditors: elected by the people, we are the only democratic body to control the european institutions. moreover, as far as the specific case is concerned, mr sadzius is a pure product of the europeanist oligarchy. given that he has spent most of his career in the european union (he was the lithuanian minister for the introduction of the euro and the banking union), i doubt that he has the background to control the financial management of the european agencies and institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of rimantas šadžius as a member of the european court of auditors. the lithuanian social democrat minister for finance, a strong europeanist, has described the introduction of the euro in his country and the creation of the banking union as his main achievements. moreover, his appointment is not obvious to me, since he has almost no professional experience outside the political sphere.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given its opinion on the appointment of rimantas sadzius to the court of auditors. the former lithuanian finance minister was considered highly qualified by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). considering that the nomination of rimantas sadzius is fully in line with the challenges and needs of the court of auditors, i voted in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the appointment of a member of the court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointments for its opinion. social democrat minister of finance of the republic of lithuania, candidate member of the political bureau of the social democratic party since 1990. it considers its main achievements to be the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds. as this person has always lived from politics and is neither a former judge nor an audit professional, i voted against this appointment.
in writing. ‒ vote against: profile of an apparatchik who has always lived from politics.
in writing. ‒ social democrat minister of finance of the republic of lithuania, the candidate has been a member of the political bureau of the social democratic party since 1990. it highlights the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds as its main achievements. this gentleman has a profile of an apparatchik who has always lived from politics, so i logically voted against the nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the appointment of the lithuanian member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius to the court of auditors. social democratic minister of finance of the republic of lithuania, member of the political bureau of the social democratic party since 1990. it highlights the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds as its main achievements. he is a politician, whereas the members of the court of auditors are usually former judges or auditors with considerable audit experience.
in writing. - i voted against this report. parliament opinion on the appointment of the social democratic minister of finance of the republic of lithuania, who initiated the introduction of the euro in his country and pushed for the banking union. a profile we couldn't support.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes the appointment of mr rimantas sadzius to the court of auditors. the lithuanian, a member of the social democratic party, was one of the main promoters of budgetary discipline when he was minister of finance. its main achievement is that it has succeeded in reducing wages in the public service and the private sector by 10%. he said a short while ago that he had always attached 'great importance to reducing public expenditure'. a whole program... i vote against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament shall be consulted for its opinion on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors. it highlights the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds as its main achievements. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ social democrat minister of finance of the republic of lithuania, the candidate has been a member of the political bureau of the social democratic party since 1990. it highlights the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds as its main achievements. it is totally absurd to think of rewarding him with this appointment, so i am against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. rimantas šadžius was heard by the committee on budgetary control. the members of this committee approved this nomination proposal by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ social democrat finance minister of the republic of lithuania rimantas šadžius has been a member of the political bureau of the social democratic party since 1990. it mainly boasts of the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the management and control of funds by the union. it is obvious that i do not share his analysis and his solutions for the future of the european union. i therefore logically vote against his appointment.
in writing. ‒ we have been asked to give our opinion on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ social democrat minister of finance of the republic of lithuania, the candidate has been a member of the political bureau of the social democratic party since 1990. it highlights the introduction of the euro in lithuania, the creation of the banking union and the improvement in the efficiency of the union's management and control of funds as its main achievements. profile of a politician who has always lived from politics. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this eu report on policy coherence for development. the text, which comes ahead of the un development summits, is the encouragement from the development committee and parliament for the eu to continue its support for the development policies of un agencies and programmes. however, in addition to having a very ideological view of development, this report raises several problems: no or little questioning of the effectiveness of development policy and the 30 years of failures of the promotion by the eu, the imf, the world bank of development models. in reality, the purpose of this text is to ask the states for resources and budgets. furthermore, i believe that the eu does not need to use development to gain power at the expense of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. despite the difficulties in implementing policy coherence for development (pcd), the eu should make an effort to ensure greater synergies between union policies. a dedicated european council meeting on the cpd, before the publication of the next commission report in 2017, would help to better define the responsibilities of the different actors.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report is a naive text that does not question the notion of development, does not question the current attitude of the people of the southern states to this notion, does not take stock of 30 years of failures of the promotion by the eu, the imf, the world bank of development models without a convincing result according to the latest imf report released this month. in fact, the real purpose of this text is to beg for resources and budgets at the expense of the member states. that alone was enough reason for me to refuse to vote for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague charles goerens, which aims to prevent inconsistencies in eu policies and to avoid negative repercussions on developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which calls on the eu to continue its support for the development policies of un agencies and programmes, a text which in particular supports unbridled immigration without considering the consequences for the countries of origin and the countries of destination of migration flows.
in writing. ‒ i do not know whether it is a good thing for the european union to dictate to the countries of what used to be called the third world what their development policy should be and whether or not they have the right to propose incentive and tax exemption measures to attract or retain investors. it is also inappropriate to impose our vision of law and human rights on africa. such an attitude can rightly be considered a form of neo-colonialism which ignores african traditions and customs which are not ours. and that is precisely why this report, full of good intentions, is a little too much to my liking. it is good that this report stresses that aid alone is not enough to solve the problems of developing countries. but please, let's not adopt a paternalistic attitude.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed this report, which unfortunately does not draw the consequences of 30 years of failure of the development models promoted by the imf and the world bank. the preda report merely uses the term 'development policy' and uses it to call for an increase in the powers and resources of the european union. at the same time, the obstacles to the success of a genuine policy of co-development are not questioned, since the report clings to the totems of immigration and free trade, despite a timid recognition of the potential harm of such an ideology. in the end, the only use of this report is to require ever more financial contributions from the member states, which are called upon to finance a 'non-project'.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the eu's capacity to support the development policies of un agencies and programmes. while i am in favour of efforts to promote the development of countries which need it, i cannot support the free trade and immigration trends in this report, which does not take stock of 30 years of failed policies in this area. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ consistency of development policies is essential to achieve the various development objectives set by international and european bodies. the european union needs to ensure this coherence in particular given the multiplicity of european policies linked to development and the complexity of the european governance system (composed of different levels of power). we must, however, put in place the necessary tools to ensure that this is consistent. we must also ensure that there is interinstitutional dialogue in the field of development. an analysis of the inconsistencies of development policies and their costs may also be necessary. i voted in favour of this report which will advance the concept of policy coherence for development.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report takes stock of the european commission's progress on its development policies and identifies areas and mechanisms for better coherence of european development policies (edps). the aim of the cdp is to take development objectives into account in all policies that could have an impact on developing countries. the aim is to minimise contradictions and create synergies between the different eu policies to benefit developing countries and to increase the effectiveness of development cooperation. the report stresses the need to develop and promote this coherence of development policies. considering that, without coherence, development policies have only a very limited effect and that it is the duty of the european union to participate in global development efforts in an effective way, i supported this report.
in writing. the 2015 eu report on policy coherence for development takes stock of progress made and makes concrete recommendations on the following priority areas: climate change, food security, migration, security, trade and finance. i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the union's external policy in order to stabilise the situation in the union's neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ this text makes development the pretext for a new extension of the eu's powers and means. this report, which is primarily ideological, does not question the notion of development. it does not take stock of 30 years of failure of eu, imf and world bank promotion of models that have not shown any tangible results. it encourages the development committee and parliament to continue eu support for the development policies of un agencies and programmes. finally, this report itself is post-cotonou and seems to lack a critical vision of the free trade strategy with africa. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the real purpose of this text is to ask for resources and budgets at the expense of the member states. that alone is reason enough to reject the report.
in writing. ‒ this text does not question the concept of development, does not question the current attitude of the people of the states of the former south towards this concept, does not take stock of 30 years of failures in the promotion by the eu, the imf, the world bank of development models without convincing results according to the latest imf report released this month. in fact, the real purpose of this text is to beg for resources and budgets at the expense of the member states. that alone is enough to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which takes stock of the actions undertaken by the european union to promote the coherence of its actions with the objectives of development policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the eu does not need to use development to gain power at the expense of states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2015 report on policy coherence for development. it is a naive text that does not question the notion of development, does not question the current attitude of the people of the states of the former south to this notion, does not take stock of 30 years of failures of the promotion by the eu, the imf, the world bank of development models without convincing results according to the latest imf report released this month. in fact, the real purpose of this text is to beg for resources and budgets at the expense of the member states. that alone is reason enough to reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the development committee and the european parliament support the development policies of the united nations (un) agencies and programmes through this text. it turns out that the substance of the text is geared towards an ideological vision of development and dilutes the very concept of the term into a demagogic concept. development is first and foremost a public policy which must bring about improvements in certain parts of the world. the latest report from the international monetary fund (imf) shows that the un's development models have failed for the past 30 years. the text is therefore biased and tends mainly to require budgets and resources from the member states. i refused to sign this text by voting against it.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states are the world's largest aid providers. they provide more than half of the funds to help developing countries. this report on policy coherence for development (pcd) takes stock of the commission's progress and identifies areas where the pcd mechanisms in place in the union can be improved. promoting better alignment between the cfp and the sustainable development goals, creating synergies between development policies and other eu policies, and increasing the resources dedicated to the factual analysis of the cfp are all effective ways of improving european development policy. the broad contribution of the socialist group has made it possible to draw up a quality report, consistent with our positions on sustainable development, and that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report takes stock of the european union's development policies in the run-up to the un summits. we are not happy with the strong ideological connotation of the report, which also calls for a strengthening of the prerogatives of the european union. it also ignores the root causes of the disparities in economic development around the world. the responsibility for this lies with the european union, the international monetary fund and the world bank - the latest imf report amply demonstrates this.
in writing. ‒ the commission carried out an evaluation of its policies for the development of third countries, shortly before the adoption by the un of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the report supports the work of the un, in particular on a mechanism for binding respect for human rights by multinational companies, and calls for an independent system in the eu for registering complaints from individuals or communities affected by eu policies. it criticised the all-liberal nature of eu agreements and called on the commission to go beyond the simple principle of corporate social responsibility and develop coherent development policies to eradicate poverty, provide quality social services and diversify domestic markets, despite the demands of investors and international financial markets. it supports much more ambitious targets than cop21, notably for public investment in renewable energy. although the report does not denounce the growing weight of private actors and the common european security and defence policy at the expense of development aid, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ with the un development summits approaching, this text provides an encouragement for continued eu support for the development policies of un agencies and programmes. without a critical examination of past failures in free trade, this report seeks to provide new funds at the expense of the member states. without any deep reflection on the concept of development itself, the text follows a flimsy logic. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this text is a naive text that does not question the notion of development, does not question the current relationship of the populations of the states of the former south to this notion, does not take stock of 30 years of failures of the promotion by the eu, the imf, the world bank of development models without a convincing result according to the latest imf report released this month. in fact, the real purpose of this text is to beg for resources and budgets at the expense of the member states. i must therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report, on policy coherence for development, gives us an overview of the european union's actions to promote policy coherence with development policy objectives. i particularly support the rapporteur's position that the commission and the member states should provide more aid to developing countries and the least developed countries, in particular through aid programmes for trade, which are still insufficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague mr preda's report. in august 2015, the european commission (ec) published its fifth biannual report on policy coherence for development (pcd), shortly before the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which includes the objective of 'strengthening policy coherence for sustainable development'. the union has frequently reaffirmed its political commitment to the dpc, but it has yet to find the means to put this commitment into practice. previous european parliament reports have made a strong contribution to advancing the concept of the dpc by institutionalising a permanent rapporteur on dpc in the committee on development, by affirming that dpc falls within the political competence of the european parliament and by putting forward concrete proposals to move forward with the implementation of the concept at union level. the main objective of this report is to take stock of the progress made by the european commission, to identify areas where the existing mechanisms for the cpd in the union can be improved and to stimulate the debate on the future of the concept at union level.
in writing. - this report is a confusing naiveté. it does not question the concept of development, does not question the current relationship of the populations of the beneficiary states with this concept, does not take stock of thirty years of failures of the promotion by the eu, the imf, the world bank of development models without a convincing result according to the latest imf report released this month. in fact, the real purpose of this text is to beg for resources and budgets at the expense of the member states. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ development policy is one of the key areas of european external action, with the union being the world's largest provider of development aid. i voted in favour of this text, which takes stock of the progress made by the european commission on policy coherence for development. it is now essential that all the mechanisms of this policy are in line with the objective of achieving the new sustainable development agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes stock of the coherence of european development policies and identifies areas where existing mechanisms can be improved. this is in line with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its 17 new objectives. the commission is also requested to identify any inconsistencies without delay and to publish an analysis of their cost. i supported this text, which identifies certain priority areas such as immigration, trade, food security, climate change, gender equality and security. in terms of financing, development aid alone is not enough; new and more diverse sources of financing must be considered. finally, the report calls on the commission and the member states to continue to strengthen the links between humanitarian aid and development cooperation in order to allow for a flexible and more effective response to the growing needs in these areas.
in writing. ‒ with the un development summits approaching, this text is the encouragement of the development committee and the parliament to continue eu support for the development policies of un agencies and programmes. this report takes a strictly ideological view of development. but development is not a public policy, it is not a slogan. it is clear that development is only a pretext for a further increase in the eu's powers and resources. it should also be noted that this report itself is post-cotonou and does not seem to critically examine the free trade strategy with africa. he's an immigration lawyer, of course. this text is naive and does not question the concept of development, does not question the current attitude of the people of the states of the former south to this concept, does not take stock of 30 years of failures of the promotion by the eu, the imf, the world bank of development models without proven results according to the latest imf report released this month. in fact, the real purpose of this text is to beg for resources and budgets at the expense of the member states. that alone is reason enough to reject the report. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ since 1992, the eu has developed the concept of 'policy coherence for development' (pcd). the aim of the cpd is to bring policies in this area closer together. it must also ensure that development policies remain favourable to the countries concerned. this report is based on the commission's fifth biannual report on the cpd. since becoming an mep, i have been denouncing the neoliberal logic of these policies and their harmful impact on local economies and populations, even to the point of preventing the sustainable development of some countries. it would be imperative that companies operating abroad ensure respect for human rights within their structures and take responsibility for violations. it is also recommended that development policies give priority to helping poor producers, promoting the diversity of the internal market of the countries concerned, reducing income gaps and promoting gender equality. finally, the report calls for the opening of legal pathways for migration and the improvement of reception of refugees. it supports a common asylum policy which is essential to overcome the current difficulties. without any illusions about the real impact of the report, i voted in favour of the report as a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition. this text is very critical of the nasan system (a programme that repeats the destructive pattern imposed on asia in the 1970s) and advocates food sovereignty and ecological diversity for local populations, in order to prevent their emigration.
in writing. ‒ in this report, we call for investment policies in agriculture to support more the development of the local economy and small farmers. it is essential to establish an independent mechanism for accountability of the actors involved. in addition, we recall that the plans of the new alliance for food security and nutrition must be in line with the voluntary guidelines of the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, with responsible governance of land tenure, fisheries and forestry.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) has been the subject of much criticism since it came into force in 2012. it is a large public-private partnership of the g8, the african union, with an african agricultural development programme. a dozen african countries are involved, from ethiopia to côte d'ivoire and senegal. nearly 180 companies are participating in the programme for an investment of $8 billion. the tax, land and trade measures taken must provide a favourable environment for enterprises. but it repeats the destructive pattern imposed on asia in the 1970s (dependence on fertilisers, monoculture, export crops, etc.). this is why unsustainable farming is favoured, while smallholders are left behind. the report proposes to counterbalance these negative effects by stimulating family farming and local economies, and by fighting poverty and food insecurity. the report highlights the crucial issue of food sovereignty, and does not fail to point out that good agricultural and food policies in african countries reduce emigration. i voted in favour of this excellent report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims in particular to promote a model of agriculture that improves resilience and creates sustainable agri-food systems.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) is a large public-private partnership involving about ten african countries, aiming to implement an agenda for the development of african agriculture through fiscal, land and trade measures. but it repeats the destructive pattern imposed on asia in the 1970s and based on reliance on fertilisers, monoculture, or export crops. this is why unsustainable farming is favoured and smallholders are marginalized. the report aims to counterbalance these negative effects by stimulating family farming and local economies, and by fighting poverty and food insecurity. he thus highlighted the crucial issue of food sovereignty, recalling that a good agricultural and food policy in african countries would help to reduce emigration. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report and i welcome the work of maria heubuch, who in this text perfectly underlines the harm and dangers of the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa. this large public-private partnership of the g8 and the african union for the development of african agriculture has unfortunately only promoted unsustainable agricultural methods, in particular by reproducing the mistakes of investment in asia with a heavy dependence on fertilisers and farm crops, all methods that impoverish small farmers. the report therefore calls for the development of family farming, which would promote local economies and help to combat food insecurity. the text also has the merit of recalling that this sustainable agricultural policy would make it possible to combat emigration effectively, and it constitutes a real plea in favour of food sovereignty which will make a genuine development policy possible.
in writing. ‒ this report criticises the provisions of the 'new alliance for food security and nutrition' (nasan) which came into force in 2012. 10 african countries, 180 companies are involved in nasan, for an investment of 8 billion dollars. the report stresses the need to promote small family structures, short circuits, self-sufficiency, limiting food imports, abandoning plant protection products and becoming independent from foreign seeds. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security is a broad public-private partnership of the g8 and the african union with an agenda for the development of african agriculture. some ten african countries are involved, from ethiopia to côte d'ivoire to senegal. nearly 180 companies are participating in the programme for an investment of €8 billion; in return, they will benefit from favourable tax, land and trade measures. this scheme, which promotes unsustainable agriculture, has proved to be ineffective in the past, particularly in asia, as small farmers are excluded. in this context, the report aims to stimulate family farming and local economies by combating poverty and food insecurity. we believe that it is essential to give priority to short-distance transport by limiting the import of foodstuffs in favour of local products. good agricultural and food policies in african countries will help to stem the emigration of their populations. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the eu's special relationship with africa in the field of food and nutrition, and in particular the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nasan). launched in 2012, nasan aims to expand financial support from developed countries and help large companies invest in african agriculture. in return, the ten african states undertook to amend their legislation on land, seeds and foreign investment. the report stresses that investment strategies in agriculture in africa must support the development of the local economy, including smallholder and family farming, as this is the best way to combat hunger in many parts of africa. considering that nasan should support the local african economy and local agricultural producers while encouraging reforms of agricultural legislation in these countries to enable them to support themselves, i supported this report.
in writing. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) was established in 2012 under the auspices of the g8 as a public-private partnership (ppp). nasan aims to attract private investment in agriculture with a view to improving food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. i voted in favour of this report which recognises that, while the objective of nasan is commendable, it has many shortcomings. the union and the member states have a crucial role to play in the transformation of nasan in order to better integrate smallholders in the development of cooperation frameworks and support local economies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the heubuch report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition set up at the initiative of the g8 in 2012. the aim of the project is to promote public-private partnerships in sub-saharan africa. i am voting to say that investment in agriculture is essential because it helps to fight hunger and malnutrition. these investments also support the economy and create decent jobs for the population. i fully support small producers and family farms, investing in the local economy is essential in the fight against poverty in which the european union must play a major role.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) has been the subject of much criticism since it came into force in 2012. it is a large public-private partnership of the g8, the african union, with an african agricultural development programme. around 10 countries are involved, including ethiopia, côte d'ivoire and senegal. nearly 180 companies are participating in the programme for an investment of $8 billion. the tax, land and trade measures taken must provide a favourable framework for business. but it repeats the destructive pattern imposed on asia in the 1970s (dependence on fertilisers, monoculture, export crops, etc.). non-sustainable agriculture is favoured, smallholders are sidelined. the report aims to counterbalance these negative effects by stimulating family farming and local economies, and by fighting poverty and food insecurity. i voted for this text which defends food sovereignty, short circuits, local agriculture, ecological diversity and respect for the environment.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the report highlights the crucial issue of food sovereignty, noting that good agricultural and food policies in african countries reduce emigration.
in writing. ‒ the g8 programme for food security in africa, which aims to boost investment in the agricultural sector, seems at first sight to be a good idea. but the rapporteur is right to point out the shortcomings, and i must welcome the relevance of his remarks. the food problem in africa will not be solved by encouraging large farms owned by private companies, intensive agriculture using chemical fertilizers, export monocultures, the use of certified or genetically modified seeds... on the contrary, africans will be put under the tutelage of large multinational groups, since this "new alliance" is a public-private partnership, whose profits and private logic will benefit more than the public interest and that of local populations. this would encourage first the rural exodus and then the international exodus of impoverished and dispossessed populations. this is why i share many of the rapporteur's proposals to promote 'sustainable' local agriculture, respecting the specificities of african countries, both agronomic and legal (e.g. land rights), in order to boost the rural economy and encourage the greatest possible food independence. i say this without cynicism: an essential way to combat mass immigration to our countries is to fight the causes of emigration.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the crucial issue of food sovereignty. the report also points out that good agricultural and food policies in african countries reduce emigration by local populations. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which criticises the new alliance g8 initiative launched in 2012 to support public-private partnerships in developing countries to fight hunger and calls for greater transparency and attention to small farmers in the countries concerned. the different investment strategies in agriculture in africa should be more connected and better support the development of the local economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is as hostile as i am to the nasan system. it is for food sovereignty, for ecological diversity and for local people to avoid their emigration as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report entitled 'the new alliance for food security and nutrition'. the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) has been the subject of much criticism since it came into force in 2012. it is a public-private partnership of the g8, the african union, with an african agricultural development programme. a dozen african countries are involved, from ethiopia to côte d'ivoire and senegal. nearly 180 companies are participating in the programme for an investment of $8 billion. the tax, land and trade measures taken must create a favourable environment for business. but it repeats the destructive pattern imposed on asia in the 1970s (dependence on fertilisers, monoculture, export crops, etc.). this is why unsustainable farming is favoured, while smallholders are left behind. the report therefore seeks to counterbalance these negative effects by stimulating family farming and local economies, and by combating poverty and food insecurity. the report highlights the key issue of food sovereignty, and points out that good agricultural and food policies in african countries reduce emigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it does indeed propose to change the dynamics of the nasan programme. the agenda for the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa is not delivering on the promises set in 2012. although it is innovative, since it is a large public-private partnership of the g8 and the african union and brings together 180 partner companies and about ten african countries, it repeats the destructive pattern established in asia in the 1970s (unsustainable agriculture, monoculture, etc.). the report therefore seeks to reverse this logic, by giving new value to family and local farming, food sovereignty, local economies, access to quality products at low cost... this text is a remarkable example of common sense in defending our view of agriculture.
in writing. ‒ launched in 2012, the new alliance is an agricultural development programme funded by the g8 countries and the european union. the aim of this programme is to lift 50 million people out of poverty in 10 african partner countries by leveraging private company investment in intensive agriculture. the extensive and trade-friendly agricultural model encouraged by the new alliance, which is almost exclusively based on exports, risks creating dominant positions and thus threatening the survival of africa's agricultural fabric, which is 90% family farming. in addition, in its present form, this international initiative is more concerned with opening up a new market for the benefit of large-scale seed producers. the text therefore rightly points out that the g8 members are not using the new alliance as a means of promoting gmo production. the text therefore makes the union's participation in such an initiative conditional on the fulfilment of a whole series of preconditions, in particular as regards transparency of financing, respect for biodiversity and access to land or water. in order to ensure that the union does not participate in the plundering of the agricultural resources of the african continent, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this report. written by german ecologist maria heubuch, who is also an opponent of ttip and glyphosate, this report is a sharp criticism of the "new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa" programme which came into force in 2012. it involves about ten african countries and some 180 companies for an investment of $8 billion. this programme ultimately disadvantaged small farms in favour of large industrial production. on the contrary, the report recommends a number of interesting avenues: short circuits, local agriculture and limiting the use of plant protection products.
‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) is a programme to help people in african countries to improve food security and nutrition. while the objective of nasan is commendable, it has many shortcomings which the report details. the report thus opposes the 'green revolution' logic advocated by nasan, which increases 'dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides, leads to severe soil degradation and contributes to climate change'. the report also stresses the need to 'protect farmers' right to multiply, use, exchange and sell their seeds'. the text also denounces tax, land and trade policies that contribute to land grabbing and deprive the inhabitants of the usual food crops. in fact, this programme mainly helps multinational companies to develop their markets and not so much african farmers. the report has taken this into account and considers that the union and its member states should withdraw their support for nasan. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) is a broad public-private partnership (ppp) of the g8, the african union, with an african agricultural development programme. the same mistakes were made in asia in the 1970s: unsustainable agriculture was promoted and smallholders were marginalized. the report aims to counterbalance these negative effects by stimulating family farming and local economies. the question of food sovereignty is of paramount importance, since it has a direct impact on migration flows, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the overriding issue of food sovereignty is highlighted in this report, it is essential. the report goes on to point out that good agricultural and food policies in african countries reduce emigration. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new alliance for global food security, which was agreed at the 2012 camp david summit by the g8 to promote public-private partnerships in developing countries to fight hunger. the report calls for greater transparency in the implementation of the alliance and for greater attention to be paid to small farmers in the countries concerned by the initiative, who must not be forgotten in favour of the private partners.
in writing. ‒ the overriding issue of food sovereignty is highlighted in this report, it is essential. the report goes on to point out that good agricultural and food policies in african countries reduce emigration. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) was created in 2012 within the g8 and aims, through public-private partnerships, to attract private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition, particularly in sub-saharan africa. i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need to invest in the local african economy. the commission will also be required to provide an annual report assessing the effectiveness of its programmes in the fight against poverty, hunger and malnutrition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan), which aims to improve food security and nutrition by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa. nasan plays a key role in africa in achieving the poverty reduction target by 2020. investment in the agricultural sector and the achievement of the sustainable development goals are the two aims of nasan. the commission is committed to promoting inclusive, agriculture-based growth that promotes small-scale farming and helps reduce poverty and malnutrition. i supported this text because it calls for nasan to focus its action on governance, ownership, accountability, access to land, land security, regulatory reform in the seed sector and, above all, food security. the latter goes hand in hand, in particular, with the question of sustainable agriculture. the union needs to continue and strengthen its commitment to food security in order to pursue an effective poverty reduction policy in sub-saharan africa.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) has been the source of much criticism since it came into force in 2012. it is a large public-private partnership of the g8, the african union, with an african agricultural development programme. a dozen african countries are involved, from ethiopia to côte d'ivoire and senegal. nearly 180 companies are participating in the programme for an investment of $8 billion. the tax, land and trade measures taken must provide a favourable environment for enterprises. but it repeats the destructive pattern imposed on asia in the 1970s (dependence on fertilisers, monoculture, export crops, etc.). this is why unsustainable farming is favoured, while smallholders are left behind. the report therefore seeks to counterbalance these negative effects by stimulating family farming and local economies, and by combating poverty and food insecurity. the report highlights the crucial issue of food sovereignty, and does not fail to point out that good agricultural and food policies in african countries reduce emigration. some of the points in this report clearly condemn the policy of large-scale ppps within nasan. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report concerns the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nasan), which was set up in 2012 under the auspices of the g8. the theoretical objective is to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. while this objective is of course paramount, the means employed are more than questionable, as many ngos point out. nasan, for example, forces the african countries concerned to reduce the tax burden of partner companies, or worse, farmers to sign contracts with companies that force them to go into debt and take responsibility for bad harvests. there are no words to condemn such practices. the report is particularly useful because it is very critical of such practices. among other things, it contains false statements against the public-private partnership established by nasan and against the programme for helping multinational companies to develop their markets rather than local businesses and farmers. in short, the report denounces the methods of nasan and calls on the european union to remedy them. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) aims to develop a set of accounting standards that are applicable worldwide. these standards are called international financial reporting standards (ifrs). in the recent financial crisis, certain standards were singled out. ifrss are based on principles, not rules. this gives accounting freedom of interpretation and makes it difficult to compare companies. ifrs also give an accounting view that is too favourable to investors. they tend to favour a short-term strategy which is detrimental to the markets. the report highlights these points and also criticises the iasb for a lack of progress in seeking transparency, preventing conflicts of interest or diversifying the experts involved. however, this report is too favourable to the generalisation of ifrs standards. if we accept the principle of common accounting standards, these standards remain questionable. the accounting regulations, which were previously the prerogative of the states, are now entrusted to an international organisation over which the states have little control. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth. we also call for a fundamental reform of the process of drawing up and approving accounting standards in order to ensure greater transparency and accountability for economic actors.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) aims to develop a set of accounting standards that are applicable worldwide, and thus to create a common language for financial reporting worldwide. these standards are called international financial reporting standards (ifrs). despite the relevant comments and recommendations, i abstained on this report because it is also a champion of the use of ifrs in a globalised economy. while we accept the principle of common accounting standards in order to facilitate the exchange of information, ifrs standards are highly questionable on a number of key points which may make them illegitimate. first, the concept of 'fair value' for the valuation of the company's assets gives a view which corresponds mainly to the interests of investors, but not necessarily to those of employees, customers or even the state. this notion leads to short-term strategies. ifrs are determined by institutions that threaten our sovereignty, since accounting regulation, which was previously the prerogative of the states, is now entrusted to an international, private and extra-community organization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to develop a set of high-quality accounting standards applicable throughout the world, and thus to create a common language for financial reporting at global level. the rapporteur recognises the importance of such globally applicable standards in improving competition and removing barriers to investment on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) aims to develop a set of accounting standards that are applicable worldwide. since 2005, the ias regulation has therefore required companies in the union to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards (also referred to as ifrs). however, the financial crisis has shown that they need to be improved: the report also notes that major problems were identified with accounting standards in the run-up to the crisis; it also criticised the iasb for its lack of progress in terms of transparency, conflict of interest prevention and diversity of experts involved. despite these pertinent remarks, i abstained on this report which is the anthem of a globalised economy, especially as ifrs standards are highly criticable on various key points which can make them illegitimate: they offer a freedom of interpretation on the accounting of certain liabilities and complicate the comparison of companies.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report concerning the evaluation of international accounting standards. the text does indeed have the merit of raising relevant observations and recommendations. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the bank has been able to obtain a profit or loss on the sale of the assets of the bank. the report also stresses the underestimation of the accumulation of risks during the economic recovery and also mentions the absence of a common and transparent methodology for the valuation of illiquid and impaired assets. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud, and calls for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights weaknesses in current accounting standards, in particular on off-balance-sheet accounts, the valuation of illiquid assets and impaired assets. it also criticises the lack of transparency of the international accounting standards board (iasb) and highlights the risks of conflicts of interest of its experts. while i agree with these findings, the fact remains that this report continues to be the champion of the use of ifrs and the concept of 'fair value', whereas these are highly questionable on several key points, including the fact that they allow for different interpretations which make it difficult to compare companies. for these reasons i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the proper functioning of the internal market and capital markets through international accounting standards. these international accounting standards are part of a process of harmonizing global accounting systems. this harmonisation is based in particular on the convergence of the two main systems, the us gaap system and the international ifrs system, which the european union adopted in 2003. the report welcomes the commission's assessment of the application of international accounting standards but regrets that it has not yet tabled the necessary legal amendments. it called in particular for the implementation of the nine financial instruments of the ifrs to promote such international accounting. finally, the report makes proposals on the proper collaboration between european and international institutions in the decision-making process. i have supported this report because i believe that the current process of globalisation requires the harmonization of accounting standards between the two largest economic powers in the world, the european union and the united states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation of national accounting standards. these standards are developed by the international accounting standards board and are applicable worldwide. it is essential that these standards are incorporated into european union law, as this contributes to strengthening the single market and financial stability within the european union and to the development of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which defends the use of ifrs (international financial reporting standards) in a globalised economy. although it is necessary to develop a common nomenclature for financial information at the global level, the notion of 'fair value' for the valuation of the assets of the company gives a view that corresponds more to the interests of investors than employees, customers or even the state. this notion also tends to favour short-term strategies linked to the volatility of financial markets. finally, ifrss provide for a degree of freedom of interpretation in accounting for certain liabilities, which complicates comparisons between entities.
in writing. ‒ abstention: ifrs are determined by institutions that threaten our sovereignty since accounting regulation, which was previously the prerogative of the states, is now entrusted to an international, private and extra-community organization.
in writing. ‒ despite the relevant comments and recommendations, i abstained on this report because it is also a champion of the use of ifrs in a globalised economy. it is right to accept the principle of common accounting standards in order to facilitate the exchange of information, but ifrs standards are highly questionable on several key points that can make them illegitimate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve and strengthen the process of developing international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and international auditing standards (isa). they are essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and financial markets and must not endanger financial stability or impede the economic development of the union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, despite some good recommendations, it champions the use of international accounting standards ifrs in a globalised economy. these ifrs standards are controlled by the major anglo-saxon audit firms.
in writing. ‒ despite very relevant comments and recommendations, i abstained on the report on the evaluation of international accounting standards, as it also champions the use of international accounting standards ifrs in a globalised economy. however, these ifrss are subject to a number of criticisms related to the notion of 'fair value' for the valuation of company assets, the use of principles rather than rules, and the lack of legitimacy and democratic control of the iasb, the private, non-eu institution that defines ifrss and is under the control of the major anglo-saxon audit firms.
in writing. ‒ the text in question concerns standards created by the international accounting standards board (iasb). the organization produces international accounting standards, known as international financial reporting standards (ifrs), with the aim of developing a common basis for financial reporting worldwide. the 2008 crisis highlighted the need to improve these rules. the report notes in particular a lack of progress in transparency, conflict prevention within the iasb. it regretted in particular the lack of a common and transparent methodology in certain areas, such as the valuation of illiquid and impaired assets. although i support the creation of a common basis of accounting standards, i cannot accept the dysfunctions of the iasb and ifrs, which, in short, do not respect the sovereignty of states in accounting regulation. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. international accounting standards (ifrs) have been imposed on companies in the european union since 2005. this is not entirely satisfactory: the choice of 'fair value' for the valuation of assets has been one of the causes of the instability of financial markets observed in recent years. other problems must be raised: the issue of off-balance-sheet accounts, the absence of a common methodology for the valuation of illiquid and impaired assets. finally, the impartiality of the iasb, the body which originated ifrs standards, is also questionable: dominated by large private companies, it leaves no room for representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. we are therefore not criticising the desirability of harmonised accounting standards. however, our reservations about ifrs are too strong to support this report.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has made it necessary to reform international financial reporting standards (ifrs) to ensure greater transparency, better governance of economic systems and greater comparability. the european union has delegated the development of international accounting standards to the international accounting standards board (iasb), an independent private self-regulatory body. at present, 116 countries with different legal, regulatory and economic structures already impose the use of ifrs standards, so the room for manoeuvre to take account of european specificities is limited. the report advocates a strengthening of european influence in the early stages of the development of accounting standards. the report also makes some criticisms of the governance of the iasb, noting that it is "dominated by private actors", that "smes are not represented at all" and that "the risk of conflicts of interest" is very much present. i'm abstaining to encourage that awareness.
in writing. ‒ the iasb develops global accounting standards (ifrs), a common language for smooth financial reporting worldwide. the ias regulation requires publicly listed companies in the union to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with those standards. the financial crisis has shown that they need to be improved. the report highlights major problems, such as off-balance-sheet accounts. the report also criticises the iasb for its lack of progress in terms of transparency, conflict of interest prevention and diversity of experts (unrepresented smes). however, ifrs standards are objectionable and therefore illegitimate in some respects, such as the notion of 'fair value', a short-term view and too much freedom of interpretation. so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) aims to develop a set of accounting standards that are applicable worldwide. these standards are called international financial reporting standards (ifrs). since 2005, the ias regulation requires listed companies in the union to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with those standards. however, the financial crisis has shown that they need to be improved. the use of the term 'fair value' and its implications for financial stability, in particular, has sparked an ongoing debate. the report recalls that major problems were identified with accounting standards before the crisis, such as off-balance-sheet accounts, the procyclicality created by the principle of valuation at market price and the recognition of profits and losses, the underestimation of the accumulation of risks during the economic recovery and the lack of a common and transparent methodology for the valuation of illiquid and impaired assets. however, despite relevant comments and recommendations, we abstain on this report, as it is also the champion of the use of ifrs in a globalised economy.
in writing. ‒ the principle of common accounting standards, in order to facilitate the exchange of information, is not a bad principle, but ifrs standards are highly questionable on several key points. for example, ifrss are based on principles rather than rules, principles that allow freedom of interpretation in accounting for certain liabilities and that make it difficult to compare companies. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report on the evaluation of international accounting standards supports the work of the international accounting standards board, whose aim is to develop a set of high quality accounting standards applicable worldwide, with the aim of simplification. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the principle of common accounting standards, in order to facilitate the exchange of information, is not a bad principle, but ifrs standards are highly questionable on several key points. for example, ifrss are based on principles rather than rules. these principles allow for freedom of interpretation in the accounting of certain liabilities and make it difficult to compare companies. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which evaluates the international accounting standards, which have been applied for ten years in the european union, and which are overseen by the international financial reporting foundation (ifrs). those international standards are important elements of the proper functioning of the union's internal market and financial markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation of international accounting standards. international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and international auditing standards (isa) are essential elements for the proper functioning of the internal market and the capital market. the report aims to make ifrs more consistent at international level, always with the same concern for clarity and efficiency. this requires enhanced impact assessments, in particular in the macroeconomic domain, and an assessment of the different needs of the wide range of stakeholders, including long-term investors, businesses and the general public. the text also calls for the development of high quality, simplified common accounting standards for smes, which is a priority for us. it also advocates the involvement of parliament and stakeholders in the development of these standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on peace support operations and the european union's engagement with the united nations and the african union. these are operational recommendations following the various experiences of missions which have had 'minor' 'european' involvement in africa, such as operations serval in mali and sangaris in the central african republic. despite a technically well-made text, the fact that the union is claiming its military role at the expense of the member states to justify its incessant self-promotion campaigns on the back of our war effort or our wounded or killed soldiers is unacceptable. the union does not have to play a military or international role or to be a pawn in the role of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the new security climate in africa in recent years, including the emergence of terrorist groups in somalia, nigeria, the sahel and the sahara. european action in africa is mainly financed through the african peace facility, mostly through the european development fund. however, the commission must put in place alternative sources of funding as already requested by the council conclusions. the training of local forces must also be strengthened so that they can effectively monitor trained soldiers. in addition, there is an urgent need to rebalance our action towards the sahel. finally, it is essential that human rights be respected in our ranks. the sexual abuse committed by un forces in the central african republic is unacceptable and must be punished as it should be!
in writing. ‒ this report consisted of operational recommendations following the various feedback from missions with 'minor' 'european' involvement in africa, such as operations serval in mali and sangaris in the central african republic. the report is technically well done and the mastery of its author, british general geoffrey van orden, is to be commended. however, the european union is militarily non-existent and is destined to remain so. it does not have to claim a military role to the detriment of the member states to justify its incessant campaigns of self-promotion on the back of our war effort (operations serval and sangaris are supported by 90% by france and its african allies in terms of investments, equipment and men) and our soldiers wounded or fallen to the enemy. i have decided against this report, as it is not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to increase the european union's contribution to peace support operations and cooperation with the united nations and the african union.
in writing. ‒ this report contains a number of operational recommendations following the various experiences of missions with european involvement in africa, such as the serval operations in mali and sangaris in the central african republic. the report is technically well done and the competence of its author is commendable; however, the european union should not claim a military role and boast of it at the expense of the member states, their war effort and their soldiers killed in action when we know that serval and sangaris are supported, in terms of investments, equipment and men, to the tune of 90% by france and its african allies. i could only vote against the fraud that this report so blatantly characterizes.
in writing. ‒ we should be wary of interfering in the internal affairs of other countries in the name of human rights and a so-called right of interference. the libyan case is enough to show the harmful consequences that a so-called 'humanitarian' operation can have for a region like the sahel, which is now completely destabilised. that is why i voted against the report by my colleague mr van orden. the european union, like the united states, is not meant to play the policeman of the world. but the rapporteur gives the impression that this is the role the union must play in the years ahead. as in the preda report we voted on today, this report from the committee on development goes too far in seeking to impose a framework of universal values on developing countries. in the name of which ideology can we claim to embody universal values? europe had better sweep a little at its own door.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, although it can take advantage of the great technical proficiency of british general van orden, who deserves our praise, falls into the trap of creating a european defence which, as we know, would become nothing more than nato's lieutenant. i would like to remind you that the army remains one of the royal powers that defines the very notion of state; the real purpose of the operations carried out by the european union was a marketing campaign to the detriment of the european nations and in particular of france, which, it should be noted, supported with its african allies almost 90% of the investments in terms of equipment and men on the ground for the serval and sangaris operations.
in writing. ‒ this report is technically well written by its author whose mastery deserves praise, even if it is only feedback on the meagre european participation in the efforts made by france in mali and the central african republic. i would like to remind you that the union is relatively weak in military matters and is destined to remain so. it does not have to claim a military role at the expense of the member states, let alone boast of it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to take stock of the european union's contribution to peace support operations (pso) in africa, in support of the united nations and the african union. the report underlines that the united nations remains the main guarantor of international peace and security, with over 120 000 personnel deployed to its service, and stresses the need for better collaboration and coordination between actors on the ground and international actors in order to achieve greater added value from these peace support actions. finally, the report urges member states to significantly increase their military and police contributions to un peacekeeping missions. i have supported this report because i believe that the european union has a responsibility on the international stage in the field of peacekeeping and that france alone cannot carry out this mission for the whole of europe.
in writing. this report on peace support operations in africa sets out the european union's commitment to the united nations and the african union. it underlines the crucial role of the united nations in restoring, maintaining or restoring peace and the importance of the un-eu strategic partnership in the field of peacekeeping and crisis management. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the african union to contribute more to peace support operations so that in the long term it can manage security in africa independently.
in writing. ‒ there are many threats of destabilisation in africa, notably from terrorist groups such as boko haram in nigeria or ansar dine in mali. peace and security on this continent is a strategic objective for the union and requires a comprehensive response from the various actors. european involvement in this field is steadily increasing. it is expressed in support for african capacity building and regional organisations on the continent. the african union thus aims to build a force that enables africans to take charge of their own security and to respond more quickly and effectively to crises such as those that have struck somalia, mali or the central african republic and for which troops have been deployed with the support of the international community. the european union also provides funding of 32.03% of the peacekeeping budget for 2015-16, making it the largest donor ahead of the united states with 28.5% finally, the union's cooperation with the un in matters of international peace and security must be promoted. this cooperation is reflected in particular in the integration of un perspectives from the very beginning of the preparations for union action.
in writing. ‒ this text contains operational recommendations following missions with 'minor' 'european' involvement in africa, such as operations serval in mali and sangaris in the central african republic. the european union does not have to claim any military vocation, to the detriment of the member states, to justify self-promotion campaigns on the back of our war effort. the operations mentioned above are supported by 90% by france and its african allies in terms of investments, equipment and men. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: these are operational recommendations following the various experiences of missions with 'minor' 'european' involvement in africa, such as operations serval in mali and sangaris in the central african republic.
in writing. ‒ the report is technically well done and the mastery of its author, british general geoffrey van orden, is to be commended. however, the european union is a military dwarf and is destined to remain so. it does not have to claim a military role to the detriment of the member states to justify its incessant campaigns of self-promotion on the back of our war effort (serval and sangaris are supported in terms of investments, equipment and men by 90% by france and its african allies) and our soldiers wounded or fallen to the enemy. i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to take stock of the european union's commitment to peace support operations in relation to the united nations and the african union. the report calls for greater communication, planning and coordination between african and international actors on the ground.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the european union attributes to it the success of support operations in africa supported by states and particularly by france. the european union does not have to play a military or international role, nor to be a pawn in the role of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on peace support operations and the european union's engagement with the united nations and the african union. these are operational recommendations following the various experiences of missions which have had little 'european' involvement in africa, such as operations serval in mali and sangaris in the central african republic. the european union is a military larva and is destined to remain so. it does not have to claim a military role at the expense of the member states to justify its incessant self-promotion campaigns on the back of our war effort and our wounded or fallen soldiers. serval and sangaris are also supported by 90% of french and african allies in terms of investments, equipment and manpower.
in writing. ‒ the report is a technical evaluation of the different missions carried out by the member states in africa, mainly by france, with operations serval in mali and sangaris in the central african republic. its author, british general geoffrey van orden, makes operational recommendations based on these experiments. however, while the technical analysis is successful, the substance of the text tends to give importance to european military strength and to attribute to it the war effort led by the member states. the european union is not meant to become a military power. it must respect the sovereignty of the states in this area and cease to insist on commitments to which it is not a party. i would remind you that 90% of the investments, men and equipment are provided by france and its african allies and that it is these men who shed their blood and fall in the face of enemy fire. i am against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with security cooperation between the european union and other international organisations present in africa (the african union and the un). the security climate on the continent has changed dramatically in recent years, with the emergence of terrorist groups in somalia, nigeria and across the sahel and sahara. this report emphasises the need to improve the procedures for communication between the un and the union. it also stressed the strategic role played by the csdp missions in africa, particularly in terms of training local forces. it also stressed the need to rebalance the union's action in the sahel. for the time being, the main focus of its efforts was on the amison mission in somalia, while at the same time new threats were emerging in the sahel. the report also highlights the tenuous link between security and development and stresses the need to respect human rights in the event of military intervention, particularly by european troops. finally, the text contains a number of proposals which would make it possible to significantly improve the handling of security crises in africa. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report, which is technically flawless, was the work of british general geoffrey van orden. we do not appreciate its tendency to attribute to the european union the merit of military operations which are essentially organized and financed by one or more member states, such as the french operations serval and sangaris. moreover, we cannot support the establishment of a european army outside the framework of the free association of sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ defence is a matter for the exclusive competence of states and the union cannot therefore finance a military operation as such, 'but the financing by the union of military actions such as peacekeeping operations with development objectives is not explicitly excluded' from the treaties. the report calls for greater intervention, with "ideally" a un mandate. "ideally", everything is part of a greater support for the common security and defence policy of the european union and nato operations such as in darfur or somalia, while pushing the african union further to garner regional legitimacy for intervention. as for the development and conflict prevention objectives, they are only a matter of discussion. this is the key issue for those who claim to want to ensure regional security. on the contrary, these inefficient military operations will be a drain on the development assistance fund. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report is technically well done and the mastery of its author, british general geoffrey van orden, is to be commended. however, the european union is not intended to be a military force per se, nor is it intended to become one. it should be remembered that the war effort is mainly supported by france, as evidenced by operations serval and sangaris. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report is technically sound and the expertise of its author, british general geoffrey van orden, is to be commended. however, the eu is not a military power and does not have to become one. it is therefore unacceptable that it should claim a military role to the detriment of the member states in order to justify its incessant self-promotion campaigns on the back of our war effort (serval and sangaris are supported in terms of investments, equipment and men by 90% by france and its african allies) and our soldiers wounded or fallen to the enemy. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on peace support operations and the european union's commitments to the united nations and the african union. the report stresses that africa must respond quickly to the crises affecting it, in particular through the african force that is now in place. in this context, the european union's role is to support these african forces.
in writing. ‒ the report is technically sound and the expertise of its author, british general geoffrey van orden, is to be commended. however, the eu is not a military power and does not have to become one. it is therefore unacceptable that it should claim a military role to the detriment of the member states in order to justify its incessant self-promotion campaigns on the back of our war effort (serval and sangaris are supported in terms of investments, equipment and men by 90% by france and its african allies) and our soldiers wounded or fallen to the enemy. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the united nations (un) remains one of the main guarantors of international peace and security, with its 120 000 agents deployed around the world, the vast majority of whom are stationed in africa. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the importance of the un-eu strategic partnership in the field of peacekeeping and crisis management, with the eu and its 28 member states contributing 37% of the funding for these operations. but it is clear that permanent support for international forces on the african continent is not desirable and it is in this sense that we support the establishment in 2016 of the 25 000 members of the african forces on standby. in the international context of the fight against terrorism and the management of the migration crisis, eu-africa cooperation in the fields of information exchange, training and logistical support, and capacity building are priority areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the union's commitment to the united nations and the african union in respect of peace support operations. the union and the member states have a major role to play in their success, especially as it is essential to promote interventions in the multilateral framework provided by the united nations, which should emerge as the main guarantor of international peace and security and be able to help to respond concretely to the new security challenges that have emerged in africa. the european union and the member states are already making a substantial contribution to this. but these actions at the un and the african union need to be improved and the resolution stresses certain requirements in order to contribute to the same objective: the european union must concentrate its action where it can bring real added value, ensure the legitimacy of its action and its effectiveness in supporting and coordinating with actions undertaken by the member states. i think this approach is a good one and that is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european union's engagement in peace support operations in support of internationally recognised organisations such as the united nations and the african union. these peacekeeping operations are a form of crisis response. in the face of a security climate in africa that has worsened considerably due to the emergence of terrorist groups, coordinated external action implementing diplomatic, security and development tools is needed. it is crucial to remember that these operations are carried out under un mandates. the success of such operations depends on perceived legitimacy and the ability to manage complex partnerships without duplication. i therefore supported this text because it calls for an assessment, a rationalisation of existing structures, better coordination, greater participation of member states in un operations, assured military assistance for african states and finally the strengthening of european capacities in africa.
in writing. ‒ these are operational recommendations following the various experiences of missions with 'small' european involvement in africa, such as operations serval in mali and sangaris in the central african republic. the report is technically well done and the mastery of its author, british general geoffrey van orden, is to be commended. however, the eu is a military larva and is destined to remain so. it does not have to claim a military role to the detriment of the member states to justify its incessant self-promotion campaigns on the back of our war effort (serval and sangaris are supported in terms of investments, equipment and men by 90% by france and its african allies) and our soldiers wounded or fallen to the enemy. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on 'peace support operations' (pso) and on the european union's engagement with the united nations and the african union. psos are a form of crisis response, usually in support of internationally recognised organisations. theoretically, they are aimed at conflict prevention, and of course, peace, which is a prerequisite for development. however, there are at least some contradictions in increasing eu military and police contributions to strengthen the common security and defence policy (csdp) at the expense of financing development policies. worse, the failure of previous western interventions is not questioned and other issues, though essential for security in africa, are forgotten. nothing, for example, about the dramatic consequences of land grabbing or the urgent need to strengthen basic social services in africa. the 'responsibility to protect' must not be used as a pretext for military intervention in those countries where the former colonial powers have already done enough damage and are still doing so, including economically. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. the report attempts to defend smes and small producers against the unfair commercial practices of the large food retailers, which have effectively contributed to the destruction of the commercial and trading fabric of french towns and villages by centralising the supply of products in 'decentralised' superstructures or 'commercial zones'. the measures outlined are intended to give them legal powers and to establish a code of good conduct which is relatively binding on the giants of distribution. although this report never mentions the fierce unfair competition suffered by smes, small businesses, traders and artisans as a result of the reckless opening of trade borders and the absence of any protective regulation, it is nevertheless in the interest of economic actors and the economic model we defend.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a european framework to put an end to unfair trading practices by hypermarkets which penalise farmers and small suppliers. there are rules in european legislation to combat unfair trading practices between businesses and consumers, but nothing between the various actors in the agri-food chain. it is up to politics and the law to rebalance these relations between the large retailers and the producers. in the context of the agricultural crisis, linked to market concentration and price pressure exerted in particular by the retail sector, it is essential that the commission takes up its responsibilities and sets up a european framework which makes it possible to combat these unacceptable practices effectively in order to better protect our farmers.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to defend smes and small businesses against these unfair commercial practices by giving them legal support and establishing a code of good conduct that is relatively binding on the distribution giants. although it is concerned with combating destructive trade imbalances in the food (non-food) supply chain and abuse of dominant positions, this report never mentions the fierce unfair competition suffered by smes, small businesses, traders, artisans and farmers (which is the focus of the rapporteur's attention) through the reckless opening of trade borders and the absence of any protective regulation to preserve the balance, employment, dynamism, quality, know-how and therefore the wealth and identity of our country. in the interests of the economic players and the economic model we defend, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to draw attention to income and power imbalances in the food supply chain, which urgently need to be addressed in order to improve the bargaining power of farmers. the concentration of purchasing centres can lead to a dominant position for european producers. this text is a first warning for the eu to finally reconcile producers and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to defend smes and small businesses against unfair trading practices by retailers in the food supply sector. the fact is that these companies, which are in a position of almost commercial monopoly, abuse their dominant position and use unfair commercial practices which distort the market, atrophy the investment capacity of the small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) and consequently affect the employment of the french. while the measures proposed in this text are likely to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the food supply sector, it is regrettable that the reckless opening of trade borders, which is the main reason for their disastrous situation, is not called into question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. the ecr member's report has the merit of defending small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) against unfair competition from food and non-food superstructures and their near-monopoly in trade. the aim is to provide smes with a legal arsenal enabling them to compel the giants of distribution to comply with standards of good conduct. i regret, however, that the rapporteur does not mention the unfair competition which our companies are facing because of the reckless opening of frontiers and the inability of the member states to put in place any regulations protecting workers.
in writing. ‒ this report denounces the abusive practices of the retail giants towards smes/tes. it is intended to give them legal powers and to establish a binding code of conduct for these major brands. while this report does not refer to the reckless opening of borders as a major cause of the difficulties faced by the smes/tes it seeks to protect, it is nevertheless a step in the right direction. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to defend smes and small producers against the unfair commercial practices of the large food retailers, which have effectively contributed to the destruction of the artisanal and commercial fabric in our territories by centralising the supply of products in off-center superstructures, called commercial zones. the measures outlined are intended to give them legal powers and to establish a code of good conduct which is relatively binding on the giants of distribution. the rapporteur does not directly address the fierce unfair competition faced by smes, small businesses, traders, artisans and farmers, which is generated by the absence of protective regulation, but he does have the merit of defending these economic actors, who provide sustainable jobs. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the pressure exerted by companies down the supply chain on the weakest links, such as farmers and smes, must end. the latter are not the only ones concerned. the price war causes considerable job losses in companies which are no longer able to make a fair profit from their products. this is a very unpleasant prospect at a time when we are creating jobs. in the long term, this will have a direct impact on the consumer, who will be faced with a reduction in the diversity of products on the market. we must ensure that every link in the supply chain has a fair income. i voted in favour of this report which calls for a european legislative framework to combat unfair trading practices.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report addresses the thorny issue of unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. considers it to be the duty of national and european public decision-makers to establish the most appropriate means of ensuring that food producers and distributors are adequately protected against these practices, which are a scourge. moreover, in a context of severe agricultural crisis, it is essential to combat these unacceptable practices which reduce the margins of processors and producers and which reinforce the dynamics of the crisis. this structural problem must be dealt with as a matter of urgency, and i have therefore particularly supported the request to the commission to propose a european legislative framework. it is now clear that the supply chain initiative is not sufficient and that national actions are uneven. i voted in favour of this report, considering that it was necessary to send a strong signal to the european commission that it should act and develop european competition law to take greater account of the specificities of the agri-food sector and the interests of producers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. such unfair commercial practices, contrary to the principles of good faith and fair dealing, destabilize the market. the establishment of an open list of these unfair trading practices and the strengthening of national legislation would ensure fair and transparent relations between the various actors in the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ it is important to send a strong signal to the european commission and the agricultural sector, which is why i voted in favour of this report. in the context of the crisis in the agricultural sector, it is essential to deepen the regulation of commercial practices. producers and processors must be guaranteed real protection against unfair commercial practices. i also want trade relations to be based on mutual trust, not fear as is too often the case today. finally, i strongly supported the two amendments by the committee on agriculture and rural development, because it is necessary to strengthen, in a coordinated way between member states, transparency and contractual arrangements in trade relations in order to rebalance the relationship between producers and traders.
in writing. ‒ agriculture, the agri-food industry and the distribution sector which together account for more than 5% of european value added and 7% of employment have undergone major structural changes, which are detrimental to farmers and producers in the first place, but also to the processing industry. the european union must be empowered to combat unfair trading practices (utps). in this dossier, my priority is to ensure that european farmers and consumers benefit from fair conditions of sale and purchase and that the pcds are translated into enforcement and sanctioning mechanisms (and not remain on a voluntary basis). transparency on costs along the chain is a good way to show where the profits are and where the abuses are.
in writing. ‒ unfair commercial practices consist of delaying payments, restricting market access, applying unilateral or retroactive changes to contract terms, abrupt or unjustified cancellation of contracts, unfairly transferring a commercial risk and passing on transport or storage costs to suppliers. farmers and smes are particularly vulnerable to these practices. they are sometimes forced to sell at a loss when price negotiations with a stronger player put them at a disadvantage. with farmers' incomes in the union having fallen by 13% compared to 2013 and the current crisis being even more widespread in sectors such as dairy and pig farming, there is an urgent need to put an end to unfair trading practices in the supply chain. while some countries, such as france, have introduced national laws to put farmers in a fairer position, there is currently no legislation at european level. this is why the situation requires an eu response that goes beyond voluntary actions by some retailers in the supply chain. we need a strong signal, and this also requires european legislative initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to defend small and medium-sized enterprises against unfair trading practices or abuse of a dominant position by giving them legal protection and by drawing up a code of conduct that is relatively binding for large retailers, particularly in the food sector. although the text never mentions the unfair competition suffered by smes, small businesses, traders, artisans and farmers through the irresponsible opening of trade borders and the absence of any protective regulation, it is in the interest of the economic actors concerned.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: it remains in the interest of the economic players and the economic model we defend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ mr czesak's report on unfair trading practices in the supply chain aims to protect small producers and retailers from unfair practices in the retail sector. i agree with that. we can see what these practices have produced or are still producing in france: prices paid to farmers which do not cover real costs, approaches to our towns and villages disfigured by shopping centres, closure of small shops in our town centres, decline in the quality of products, prices which are still high for consumers, and in any case disproportionate to agricultural prices... i do not, however, share the confidence that the report seems to place in the commission to solve this problem, particularly through european harmonization of rules. is it not the same commission which has been clamoring for years for the end of french restrictions on the installation of large surfaces, in the name of competition? however, even though this is not the first report from parliament calling for a rebalancing of the balance of power between the various players in the chain, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which calls on the commission to take legislative action against unfair trading practices by supermarkets which penalise farmers and small producers. there are already strict rules in european law to prevent unfair trading practices between companies and consumers, but not between actors in the food chain. this must change quickly to control the abusive practices of supermarket chains (selling below production prices, delaying payments, etc.) which reduce the margins of producers and farmers and no longer allow them to make a decent living from their work.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the text on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain which finally takes into account the concerns of european retailers and producers alike. the european union is often accused of being out of touch with the difficult realities faced by european citizens on a daily basis. this is sometimes true, as the agricultural crisis, which europe is slow to respond to, proves. our priority must be to protect those who contribute to the economic growth of our countries and who are the foundation of the stability we so badly need. competition law must be reformed to take account of the specificities of agri-food and the interests of producers. this is the message we are sending to the european commission. if we do not know how to be offensive on the international scene and defensive when our interests are at stake, such as the future of our agriculture, we will become within twenty years a europe that is lagging behind, a europe that the rest of the world will know from history books but not from its ability to define and build the future.
in writing. ‒ the report is well-targeted as it aims to defend small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) against these unfair commercial practices by giving them legal support and establishing a code of good conduct that is relatively binding on the distribution giants. although it is concerned with combating destructive trade imbalances in the food (non-food) supply chain and abuse of dominant positions, this report never mentions the fierce unfair competition suffered by smes, small businesses, traders, artisans and farmers (which is the focus of the rapporteur's attention) through the reckless opening of trade borders and the absence of any protective regulation to preserve the balance, employment, dynamism, quality, know-how and therefore the wealth and identity of our country. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the commission to come forward with proposals against unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, so as to ensure a fair income for farmers and a wide choice for consumers. in the context of the current agricultural crisis, it is important that parliament sends a strong signal to farmers. the text will help to control the abusive practices of supermarket chains which reduce the margins of producers and farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it seeks to protect small producers and smes from unfair commercial practices by the large retailers.
in writing. ‒ in this context of agricultural crisis, we wanted to send a message of support to farmers in the european union by voting in favour of the czesak report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. the aim is to put an end to anti-competitive practices between producers and processors. i believe that european competition law needs to be developed to combat economic imbalances and unequal bargaining positions in this sector. i want to express my support for small producers and food retailers, who must be able to benefit from increased protection and regain a position of strength in the face of these unfair practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. the large retailers have pursued very aggressive commercial policies and have helped to destroy the commercial and trading fabric of french towns and cities, centralising the supply of products in 'decentred' superstructures or 'commercial zones'. these brands are all-powerful and are often the subject of complaints from small producers or retailers who suffer from unfair commercial practices (or abuse of a dominant position) which distort the market even more, atrophying the investment capacity of smes and smes, ruining the attractiveness and dynamism of the sectors and finally affecting the employment of the french. the report is well-targeted, as it aims to defend small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) against these unfair commercial practices by giving them legal support and establishing a code of conduct that is relatively binding on the distribution giants. unfortunately, this report does not mention the fierce unfair competition caused by the reckless opening of trade borders and the absence of any protective regulation to preserve the balance, employment, dynamism, quality, know-how and therefore the wealth and identity of france and the other member states.
in writing. - i voted for it. the report put to the vote proposes the introduction of a code of good conduct and legal measures. it can thus protect small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), producers and traders who have suffered for years from unfair competition from the large retailers. these companies have changed the french production system profoundly and have almost completely monopolized distribution. in view of this, it is time to revalue the other food chains. i am in favour of this text, despite the fact that there is no denunciation of free trade agreements which erase trade frontiers.
in writing. ‒ the food chain links three important sectors of the european economy: agriculture, the agri-food industry and the distribution sector. they alone account for 7% of total employment. the major structural changes in this food chain have contributed in recent decades to creating economic imbalances in the individual trade relations between the various actors. this is why unfair trading practices (utps) in this chain are the subject of particular attention by the eu. while only about 20 member states have measures to combat pcd, the european commission still does not propose a solution. it merely encourages a flexible approach, leaving the best to private voluntary initiatives. the report stresses that european farmers and consumers must enjoy fair conditions of sale and purchase. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. i support these measures and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this report aims to provide smes/tes with the tools to combat unfair commercial practices in the retail sector. however, the problem of funds, which is the opening of trade frontiers without any economic protectionism, is, as usual, completely avoided by this text. that reservation aside, we support this text which is in the interests of the agricultural community.
in writing. ‒ the report exposes unfair trading practices in the food sector. he cites as an example 'unfavourable negotiations with other actors in the food supply chain, for example during market closures and cuts in supermarkets', which forced producers to work at a loss. this phenomenon is also increasing because the increasing concentration of market power in a limited number of multinational groups tends to harm small and medium-sized producers. but if the report is positive, the options are weak. the report timidly calls for 'the most transparent retail pricing possible' so that prices in the food supply chain reflect the value added by primary producers. finally, it welcomed the commission's action in this area. i abstain in order not to prevent some small progress but i regret that maximum multiplier coefficients are not being put in place to stop the looting by the large retailers.
in writing. ‒ the report is well-targeted in that it aims to defend smes/tes against aggressive or even unfair commercial practices in the retail sector by providing them with legal support and by establishing a binding code of good conduct for the industry's giants. i must stress, however, that there is never any reference to the reckless opening of trade frontiers. in the interests of the economic players and the economic model we defend, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is well-targeted as it aims to defend small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) against unfair commercial practices by giving them legal support and establishing a code of good conduct that is relatively binding on the distribution giants. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. as the european union is legislating to better protect the weak parties in contracts, as the adoption of the consumer protection directive in 2011 showed, this text is part of that process. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report is well-targeted as it aims to defend small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) against unfair commercial practices by giving them legal support and establishing a code of good conduct that is relatively binding on the distribution giants. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ there is an urgent need to address imbalances and unequal power relations within the food supply chain. i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the european commission to come forward with concrete proposals to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. fair income for farmers and real choice for consumers are the two objectives that the european commission must have in mind when proposing mechanisms to ensure fair and transparent trade relations between producers, suppliers and distributors in the sector.
in writing. ‒ it is time to put an end to unfair trading practices in the food supply chain and that is why i voted in favour of this report, for which i was rapporteur for my political group. these unacceptable practices have very damaging consequences for the whole food supply chain, in particular for farmers and smes, as well as for the consumer. contractual freedom and the effective implementation of the applicable tools or legislation must be guaranteed to protect all actors in the chain, regardless of their geographical location. in particular, we call on the voluntary supply chain initiative to address its shortcomings, such as the under-representation of smes and farmers, the absence of sanctions for non-compliance, weaknesses in governance, and the inability to submit confidential complaints. we also encourage member states to set up specific public authorities or bodies at national level to combat such practices; in addition, those authorities should cooperate effectively with each other. the time has come to put an end to the doubts about the existence of such practices; we must now put an end to it.
in writing. ‒ the food supply chain has undergone major structural changes which have contributed to a situation characterised by highly variable levels of bargaining power and economic imbalances in individual trading relationships between actors in the chain. these imbalances are now reflected in recurrent unfair trading practices that weaken smaller players, such as producers. it is essential that the european commission addresses this problem through a legislative proposal that makes it possible to combat these unfair trading practices. to be effective, the response will have to be european, particularly in terms of adopting a common definition and standards. it will also have to take account of the particularly difficult situation of small players, particularly producers. the supply chain initiative, while a useful initiative, still has too many imperfections. for example, it has never been able to resolve a conflict between the various actors. it is therefore necessary to supplement it with binding measures, as this report calls for. it also states that such measures should include enforcement elements and dissuasive sanctions. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which calls on the european commission to take measures and tools at european level to combat unfair trading practices between companies. the problem of unfair competition is particularly acute in the food supply chain and has negative effects on the weakest link in the chain, in particular small producers and farmers. the report calls for the abusive practices of certain companies to be brought under control without delay in order to restore fair trading conditions. i supported this report because it also calls for the establishment of a framework legislation at union level, which is necessary to combat unfair trading practices and ensure that european farmers and consumers enjoy fair conditions of sale and purchase. this european framework legislation should not lower the level of protection already in force in some member states. the report also calls for greater transparency and access to more information in the supply chain, in particular to better inform consumers through product labelling.
in writing. ‒ the large food (and non-food) retailers have pursued very aggressive commercial policies and have effectively contributed to the destruction of the commercial and retail fabric of french towns and cities, centralising the supply of products in 'decentralised' superstructures or 'commercial zones'. today, as a virtual monopoly in the market, these large retailers (whether in the food supply chain or in other sectors) are all powerful and are often the subject of complaints from small producers or retailers who suffer from unfair commercial practices (or abuse of a dominant position) which distort the market even more, atrophy the investment capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), ruin the attractiveness and dynamism of the sectors and ultimately affect the employment of the french. the report is well-targeted in that it intends to defend small and mediumsized enterprises against these unfair commercial practices by giving them legal support and by establishing a code of good conduct which is relatively binding on the distribution giants. unfortunately, this report never mentions the fierce unfair competition suffered by smes, small businesses, traders, artisans and farmers (which is the focus of the rapporteur's attention) as a result of the reckless opening of trade borders and the absence of any protective regulation. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture. despite some interesting findings and measures such as the defence of precision agriculture, crop rotation or the circular economy, this text is intended to promote new breeding techniques, in particular post-gmo. there is also a willingness to let the commission draw conclusions not always based on scientific data, and to leave it alone to judge the consequences. finally, the text breaks the precautionary principle with regard to these new techniques and technologies, which opens the door to the acceptance of innovations without prior consideration of the risks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. innovation in agriculture and forestry is essential to meet the food, environmental and climate challenges of the 21st century. the agricultural world is facing multiple crises; well-designed, well-supported and well-funded innovation can be a solution to encourage sustainable agronomic and ecological practices, in line with the major challenges we face. but innovation must respect the precautionary principle: that is why we have opposed 'new breeding techniques'. some of them could potentially be considered as gmos, and there is no question of reintroducing them by other means, even though we are winning battles against gmos labelled as such. beyond this question, innovation must also be thought of in relation to a redefinition of the objectives of the cap and integrated into a more comprehensive strategy. while taking into account the emergence of new production models, there is no question of damaging or destroying existing quality models adapted to local realities.
in writing. ‒ the core of this report is the promotion of new breeding techniques, particularly post-gmo. there is a willingness to let the commission draw conclusions not always based on scientific data, and to leave it alone to judge the consequences. the precautionary principle with regard to these new techniques and technologies is broken, which opens the door to the acceptance of innovations without prior consideration of the risks. the report also defends a model of forced productivism and attempts to hold the european union accountable or even to blame it. it exacerbates the eu's role in the world's food supply and makes it virtually responsible for feeding the entire planet in the name of population growth. the few good points that have been distilled into a few drops of water therefore do not carry much weight in the face of the utopian and dangerous progressivism of this report, which fundamentally calls into question the precautionary principle, which is our guiding principle in our approach to gmos. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, the fruit of a long work by my colleague jan huitema, on strengthening innovation in the agricultural sector. rather than subsidising a status quo that has outlived its usefulness, european agricultural policy should focus on innovation. like my colleagues at adle, i am strongly committed to unlocking the innovation potential of agriculture to produce more quality products, secure food supplies and fight climate change more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which mixes good ideas with bad ideas. if the search for innovation and the will to adapt agriculture to the current challenges are indeed necessary, this report of liberal inspiration proposes wrong solutions. the text thus promotes new breeding techniques, particularly those which are post-gmo and not based on scientific data. the precautionary principle is being trampled underfoot: the text opens the door to the acceptance of innovations without prior consideration of potential risks. the report also advocates a model of frenzied productivism. the few good findings distilled by the dropper are therefore not so important in the face of the exaggerated and dangerous progressivism of this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this text on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture. the report does have some good points to make. the need to defend precision agriculture, farmers' breeding rights and access to and protection of genetic resources, especially local ones, is recalled. however, this effort of common sense is counterbalanced by the productivist perspective which the rapporteur gives to the report. the main point of disagreement is the rapporteur's abandonment of the precautionary principle on the question of gmos, since the rapporteur leaves it to the commission to sort out the weeds from the wheat in scientific data and new production techniques. the text also suggests that the european union has a quasi-maternal responsibility to produce enough food for the rest of the world, due to the exponential growth of the population. this is not europe's role, nor is it a sustainable solution for the future of agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the core of this report is the promotion of new breeding techniques, particularly post-gmo, in the context of a model of forced productivism, leaving the commission alone to judge the conclusions to be drawn from these experiments. it emphasises the eu's role in the world's food supply and makes it virtually responsible for feeding the planet in the name of population growth. it calls into question the precautionary principle which i am firmly attached to with regard to gmos. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to find technological solutions to meet the current challenges in agriculture in a sustainable way. while we share certain views, such as the defence of a circular economy or the defence of farmers' breeding rights, we are clearly opposed to the promotion of new breeding techniques, particularly post-gm ones. the european commission is dogmatic in its conclusions and does not base itself on scientific data. the precautionary principle with regard to these new techniques and technologies is broken, thus opening the door to the acceptance of innovations without prior consideration of the risks. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture. the european union must become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture, while ensuring that the benefits of technical progress are available to all european farmers. in a context where global food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050 and where europe has a moral duty to contribute to feeding the world, new technologies are one of the solutions to make crops and livestock more productive and sustainable. the vote on this report revealed a clear opposition between the epp, which defends innovation, and the left-wing and extreme groups which, based on a precautionary principle which has become an absolute dogma, reject all technological progress, even those which could be beneficial. i am convinced, as rabelais was, that "knowledge without conscience is only the ruin of the soul", but the absence of knowledge and progress cannot be accepted either. as a supporter of the principle of innovation in our agriculture, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported this report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture because technological innovation will play a key role in enabling higher productivity and more sustainable crops. to this end, a joint approach by the commission and the member states is strongly recommended.
in writing. ‒ supporting the agricultural world is important, which is why i voted in favour of this report. today, agriculture faces many challenges, such as climate change and the scarcity of arable land. in a world with a growing population, the rate of increase in food demand is estimated at 70% by 2050. it is therefore essential to propose concrete solutions for a european agriculture that is both economically competitive and environmentally sustainable.
in writing. ‒ i voted overall in favour of this text which talks at length about pesticides, indicating the need for farmers to become less dependent on these products and calling for a change in the regulatory framework. however, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i have called for great caution in regard to anything that comes out of genetic selection. agricultural research is now using new techniques for modifying living organisms: gene activation or deletion, recombination of the genome, assisted mutagenesis, etc. these new breeding techniques, known as nbt, are closely linked to seeds and raise legitimate concerns that they are reintroducing the debate on gmos. on the technical side, i wanted to distinguish between methods based on transgenesis (the insertion of a foreign gene into the genome), which i reject in the name of the precautionary principle, and methods based on endogenous improvement within the same species, which is the basis of agriculture and has been practised for centuries.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates innovation and adaptation towards precision agriculture, crop rotation and a circular economy. it defends access to and protection of genetic resources, including local ones, and farmers' breeding rights. the text nevertheless aims to promote new breeding techniques, particularly post-gm ones. it also includes the desire to strengthen the commission's power to draw conclusions on these issues, and the race to ever greater productivity, which is not the solution but the problem. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the few good points distilled by the dropper do not weigh heavily against the exaggerated and dangerous progressivism of mrs mcintyre. above all, it calls into question the precautionary principle, which is our guiding principle in our approach to gmos.
in writing. ‒ the few good findings distilled by the dropper do not weigh heavily against the exaggerated and dangerous progressivism carried by mrs mcintyre. above all, it calls into question the precautionary principle, which is our guiding principle in our approach to gmos. i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the development of innovative technologies in the agricultural sector in a context of increasing global demand, shrinking land availability, increased health risks and environmental degradation. the european union must empower itself to become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it praises agricultural productivism. it also gives the eu the unreasonable task of feeding the whole world.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture. despite some interesting points (notably the defence of precision agriculture, crop rotation and the circular economy), some paragraphs are inadmissible because of the vagueness they imply about new breeding techniques. in addition, this text praises productivism, gives the european union a responsibility for food throughout the world, neglects the precautionary principle and leaves it to the commission to draw its own conclusions on breeding techniques: it is therefore the sole judge of the consequences.
in writing. ‒ the text focuses on innovation through the development of new technologies and techniques, with a view to establishing sustainable agriculture. admittedly, the adaptation of agriculture to the new needs of society is necessary. the report sets out some lines of thinking and action in this respect, starting with the defence of farmers' right to select, the defence of access to genetic resources (particularly local ones) and precision agriculture (crop rotation, etc.). nevertheless, the text encourages an excessive productivism and liberalism, which leads to mass production. good proposals are drowned out by the urgent need to introduce new techniques such as post-gmo breeding. in doing so, the text goes beyond the precautionary principle, which assesses the risks posed by gmos and is essential for risk assessment. for all these reasons i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ agriculture today faces many challenges: food, environment, climate and energy. it must produce more, improve the quality of its products and ensure better management of natural resources. the rapporteur believes that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. a whole chapter of this report is devoted to precision breeding techniques, better known as new breeding techniques (nbt), and goes so far as to describe several of them in detail, some of which can potentially be considered as gmos. although some passages in the text indicate that particular emphasis should be placed on the development of sustainable agricultural practices (conservation agriculture, agro-ecology, agroforestry) and on the circular economy, the many shadow areas surrounding nbts encourage me to apply the precautionary principle. i therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the report takes stock of the situation in agriculture: competition for land, scarcity of resources (water, air, etc.) and climate change. and to promote 'sustainable' agriculture in this context, the report encourages the development and adoption of 'precision' agricultural technologies, i.e. taking into account the variability of environments and conditions between different plots in order to optimise yields and investments. in fact, under the guise of reducing inputs (because they are better used), this is a new race for equipment requiring expensive technologies and therefore a large amount of debt on the part of farmers. to guarantee genetic diversity, rather than opposing the patenting of living things, the text hypocritically proposes 'a better dialogue between gene banks, private and public plant research, breeders, end users'. the text does, however, allow some leeway for the organic model: for example, it admits that 'biocontrols (methods of crop protection based on the use of living organisms or natural substances) could limit the use of traditional pesticides and contribute to a better resilience of plants'. but the account isn't there. and, in the end, this report reflects the absolute lack of vision for the future of agriculture in europe. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ mrs mcintyre's challenge to the fundamental precautionary principle with regard to gmos is dangerous and contrary to our vision in this area. despite a timely search for innovations and adaptations of agriculture to the challenges of today, the overly progressive and ultra-liberal ideas advanced in this report lead me to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the few good findings that are distilled into a droplet in this report do not weigh heavily against the exaggerated and dangerous progressivism of ms mcintyre. above all, it calls into question the precautionary principle, which is essential in the approach to gmos. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i support this text on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the european union. with global demand for agricultural products growing alongside population, with the world's urbanisation reducing the area available for crops, and with global warming disrupting agriculture, it is essential to look now for ways to make agriculture more sustainable and productive.
in writing. ‒ the few good findings that are distilled into a droplet in this report do not weigh heavily against the exaggerated and dangerous progressivism of ms mcintyre. above all, it calls into question the precautionary principle, which is essential in the approach to gmos. i vote against this dangerous bill.
in writing. ‒ the european union and its member states must become aware of the importance of new technologies in the search for a more productive and sustainable agriculture, especially when it is known that the global demand for food is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. it is with the importance of these issues in mind that i voted for this text which stresses innovation in agriculture, so that the european union can become a leader in the sustainability of the sector, while ensuring that the benefits of progress are equitably shared among our farmers.
in writing. ‒ our agricultural model is facing new challenges. the prospect of having to feed nearly 9 billion people by 2050, curb global warming and better manage resources is driving us to rethink our models and innovate. technology can be used to make our agricultural production methods more efficient and sustainable. the field of agricultural innovation is wide open and we must be determined to encourage and develop scientific initiatives in terms of technology, agricultural practices and the social organization of agriculture. but innovation cannot be exempt from the precautionary principle. a majority of which i am a member opposed the 'new breeding techniques' because there was insufficient scientific evidence to consider them as non-gmo. the report calls for farmers to be more involved in the research and innovation processes. this is a remarkable consideration, as it ensures that farmers are actors in the agricultural transition. farmers must be involved in technological and environmental progress. it is with this in mind that the european parliament adopted the mcintyre report.
in writing. - this report mixes good ideas with bad ideas. while the quest for innovation and adaptation of agriculture to current challenges is not bad in itself, this report takes the opportunity to open the door to many of the ideas that are too progressive and liberal. among the good findings and measures are:- the defence of precision agriculture, crop rotation, the circular economy...,- the defence of access to and protection of genetic resources, especially local ones,- the defence of farmers' breeding rights... however, the main thrust of the text is not that, but the promotion of new breeding techniques, particularly post-gm ones. the precautionary principle with regard to these new techniques and technologies is broken, which opens the door to the acceptance of innovations without prior consideration of the risks. the report also advocates a model of forced productivism, which exacerbates the eu's role in the world food supply and makes it responsible for feeding the entire planet in the name of population growth. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on promoting innovation and economic development in relation to future agricultural management for the european union. the only positive aspects mentioned in this text (promotion of the consumption of local food products, promotion of agriculture in trade and creation of wealth in the eu, etc.) are neither quantified nor linked to concrete measures. on the other hand, there are many elements that are absolutely unacceptable (excessive productivism, exaltation of the cap, the europe 2020 strategy, the digital single market, dogmatic defence of icts, even though they are not always effective), which are very precise. i therefore opposed this text, which contains some interesting findings, but which are nevertheless drowned in a disturbing wave of ultra-liberalism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to encourage the commission to facilitate access to finance for innovation. our societies face many challenges (food, environment, climate) to which agriculture can provide solutions. this means producing more food, of better quality, especially for health, and accessible to all, while at the same time fighting food waste. to meet these challenges, the objectives of the cap need to be redefined. and as such, as has been the case in the past, innovation is a considerable asset for the progress of agriculture, including forestry. it is imperative that it be taken into account in future revisions of the cap in order to combine economic development with sustainable production.
in writing. ‒ the very title of this report says a lot about the ideological garbage it is. the dutch ultra-liberal jan huitema is the author of a series of ideas, measures and new regulatory approaches, which we regularly combat:- excessive productivity;- exaltation of the cap, the europe 2020 strategy and the digital single market;- dogmatic defence of ict, even though it is not always effective (especially in the establishment of cadastral data by gps, which are often approximate);- promotion of overall harmonisation of the european market through, in particular, the use and exchange of personal data;- desire to create jobs, but also to encourage the commission to push for ever more automation of tasks;- desire to introduce, via the commission, a single european legislation for drones and rasps. the report distills the promotion of gmos and strongly challenges existing legislation in europe on the subject. 'bio-stimulants', 'biocontrols' and 'biological control mechanisms' are therefore marketed as essential tools for 21st century agriculture. i voted against this report, which opens the door to changes we do not want.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, the fruit of a long work by my colleague jan huitema, on strengthening innovation in the agricultural sector. rather than subsidising a status quo that has outlived its usefulness, european agricultural policy should focus on innovation. like my colleagues at adle, i am strongly committed to unlocking the innovation potential of agriculture to produce more quality products, secure food supplies and fight climate change more effectively.
in writing. ‒ this report is a veritable ideological garbage, mixing positive points which are not accompanied by any serious commitment or concrete and quantified measure with the much more numerous and above all more precise negative points: thus, this report is the vehicle for promoting a global harmonisation of the european market through the use and exchange of personal data and distills a real promotion of gmos, presented as indispensable for agriculture in the 21st century. i therefore voted against this report, which drowns its few interesting findings in a flood of deadly recommendations for our agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i have vehemently opposed this report, which is a real ultra-liberal ideology that is deadly for our agriculture and our farmers. the rapporteur defends everything we oppose: destructive productivism, the defence of the cap and the single market, the plea for a global harmonization of the european market through the use and exchange of personal data. worse still, the few positive ideas (such as the promotion of local consumerism or the place given to small and medium-sized farms or family farms) are only vaguely exposed and then quickly abandoned in favour of the promotion of gmos (with the use of polite terms such as 'bio-stimulants') and a challenge to national legislation protecting the subject. the rapporteur's optimism about the use of icts (which are not always effective, particularly in the case of the establishment of cadastral registers by gps) borders on naivete.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights some interesting principles, including the consumption of local products, the importance of small family farms, the use of biofuels and support for young farmers. however, it is part of a liberal, productivist, highly automated, and pro-gmo framework, which is unacceptable to me. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on promoting innovation and economic development in relation to future agricultural management for the european union. the only positive aspects of the text, such as support for young farmers and small farms or the promotion of local agricultural and food products, are not accompanied by any serious commitments or concrete measures. but there are many questionable elements. this dogmatic report promotes the common agricultural policy, the europe 2020 strategy and the digital single market. the rapporteur also recommends adopting a single legislation for drones. for all these reasons, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on promoting innovation and economic development in future agricultural management for the european union, and on the link between innovation and sustainable agricultural production. innovation is very important for agricultural producers, as it allows for better production efficiency. however, advanced production techniques must benefit all european producers, not just the large producers, but also smes and producers in disadvantaged regions such as mountainous regions. i considered this an important topic for the development of economically and environmentally sustainable agricultural production in europe and supported this report.
in writing. i supported this text on promoting innovation and economic development in relation to future agricultural management for the european union. innovative solutions will ensure that the european agricultural sector remains a leading player and will ensure the prosperity of the rural economy and the jobs associated with agricultural work.
in writing. ‒ i support the importance of innovation for the future of agriculture and for its sustainability, both economically and environmentally. all farmers, regardless of the size of their holdings and the geographical handicaps they face, must be able to benefit from technological and technical advances to be more competitive and more environmentally friendly. i would also like to stress that innovation must contribute to the welfare of farmers, which is a cause i am very attached to but which is too often neglected. in supporting this report, i would like to reaffirm that economic competitiveness and environmental sustainability are not opposites, but complementary!
in writing. ‒ innovation in agriculture and forestry is a good way to respond to the many challenges facing our societies: food, environment, climate. but this innovation must not come at any price, as i argued as a fictitious rapporteur: - innovation must be thought of in connection with a redefinition of the objectives of the cap, it must be integrated into a more comprehensive strategy. - it must take account of the emergence of new models of production and governance based on knowledge and new technologies, respecting quality standards and adapted to the realities of europe's largely rural societies. - she must be in the employment office. this requires a wider exploitation of the agricultural potential for the supply of food and non-food goods and services. this requires vocational training, which is crucial in mastering new technologies and innovative practices. the agricultural profession is facing a number of crises. innovation well thought out, well supported, well funded can be a solution to encourage sustainable agronomic and ecological practices, in line with the major challenges ahead.
in writing. ‒ the few positive points in the report are not accompanied by any serious commitment or concrete and quantified measures. this includes the promotion of local products, small and medium-sized farms, support for young farmers and the promotion of the use of biofuels via animal manure. on the other hand, the negative points are numerous and much more specific. gmos and productivism are promoted, as is the cap in general, the europe 2020 strategy and the digital single market. information and communication technologies are emphasised, although their effectiveness is questionable. the use and exchange of personal data is promoted, as is the automation of tasks. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this own-initiative report contains far too many inadmissible elements. it opens the door to changes that we don't want. the few interesting findings are drowned in a disturbing ultra-liberal tide.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report contains far too many inadmissible elements. it opens the door to changes that the majority of members of our group do not want. the few interesting findings are drowned in a disturbing ultra-liberal tide. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to highlight the role of innovation in economic and environmental sustainability in agricultural production. it also aims to promote access to the advantages of advanced production techniques for farmers, whether they are conventional farmers, small farmers or producers in areas with geographical and natural handicaps.
i voted against this report because it promotes gmos in an openly ultra-liberal spirit.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'promoting innovation and economic development in relation to future agricultural management for the european union'. the rapporteur, mr huitema, distills his promotion of gmos in his report and strongly challenges the existing legislation in europe on this subject. 'biostimulants', 'biocontrols' and 'biological control mechanisms' are therefore sold as indispensable tools for 19th century agriculture. this own-initiative report contains far too many inadmissible elements. it opens the door to changes i don't want. the few interesting findings are drowned in a disturbing ultra-liberal tide.
in writing. ‒ the whole of this report advocates an ultra-liberal view of european agriculture, which i strongly oppose. the proposals he presents, which have a positive aspect, remain vague and not very concrete, while those which are negative are very precise. the rapporteur, for example, proclaims his support for local food products, support for young farmers and employment, without offering any practical solutions. on the other hand, it insists on excessive productivism, the exaltation of the cap (common agricultural policy), the promotion of an overall harmonisation of the european market, in particular through the use and exchange of personal data... the proposals put forward are therefore destructive of the agricultural model we are advocating. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report contains some positive points, including the promotion of local consumption, the importance of small and mediumsized farms and support for young farmers. however, this report by the ultra-liberal jan huitema ignores the gender issues, in particular the promotion of the cap and the europe 2020 strategy, which are the causes of the current ills of the french countryside.
in writing. ‒ according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao), the world's food supply will need to increase by 60% by 2050. to achieve this, the report proposes to encourage 'innovation' in agriculture. the report is critical of the current agricultural model. it criticizes the use of pesticides and inputs, promotes organic farming and even agroforestry. it also takes food sovereignty issues into account by calling for protein independence in the eu. but it is also committed to ensuring 'the continuous development of innovative plant breeding techniques'. behind this barbaric terminology lies the possibility for pharmaceutical companies to manipulate the genetic material of plants to claim intellectual property. in other words, it allows gmos. the new techniques, new varieties or new machinery that this report is touting will have the first consequence of increasing farmers' dependence on multinational plant protection companies and banks. this will increase the gap between large agro-industrial producers and small farmers. i am voting against this text, which clearly does not address the issues of the new agriculture that has become necessary (environment, employment, culture, landscape, etc.).
in writing. ‒ despite the clear evidence, the conclusions are ideological and worrying in areas as varied as the cap, strategy 2020, the digital single market, gmos, icts, rpas. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report contains far too many inadmissible elements. it opens the door to changes we do not want, for example on gmos. the few interesting findings are drowned in a disturbing ultra-liberal tide. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ as in all sectors, innovation in agriculture is essential to meet the new challenges that are emerging: increasing world population, decreasing arable land... this report highlights the role of innovation in economic and environmental sustainability in agricultural production. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report contains far too many inadmissible elements. it opens the door to changes we do not want, for example on gmos. the few interesting findings are drowned in a disturbing ultra-liberal tide. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which emphasises innovation as a factor of economic and environmental sustainability in agricultural production. this text sets out various proposals to facilitate access for our farmers to the various new production techniques, whether on traditional, small-scale farms or in areas facing geographical or natural handicaps, such as mountain areas or overseas.
in writing. ‒ we are facing three challenges to which agricultural innovation can provide solutions: a food challenge, with the prospect of having to feed 9.1 billion people by 2050, an environmental challenge, due to the degradation and depletion of natural resources, and finally a climate challenge, linked to climate change at work and the risks it entails. meeting these challenges requires redefining the objectives of the common agricultural policy (cap) and facilitating funding for agricultural innovation. the range of possible innovations is wide, from technological innovations (digital, robotics), to innovations in terms of agricultural practices (better protection and exploitation of resources), or in terms of social organisation (developing the circular economy, for example). the stakes are twofold. while the redefinition of cap objectives must provide solutions to the challenges facing agriculture, it must also ensure that it does not leave farmers alone in the face of crises in their sector, such as in milk or pig farming. innovation must be used to develop agricultural potential, sustainability and food security.
in writing. ‒ the very title of this report says a lot about the ideological garbage it is. it contains a great number of ideas, measures and new regulatory avenues, which i regularly combat:- excessive productivism;- exaltation of the cap, the europe 2020 strategy and the digital single market;- dogmatic defence of ict, even though it is not always effective (especially in the establishment of cadastral registers by gps, which are often approximate);- promotion of a global harmonisation of the european market through, in particular, the use and exchange of personal data;- desire to create jobs, but an incentive for the commission to push for ever more automation of tasks;- desire to introduce, via the commission, a single european legislation for drones and rasps. in particular, mr huitema distills throughout his report his promotion of gmos and strongly challenges the existing legislation in europe on the subject. 'bio-stimulants', 'biocontrols' and 'biological control mechanisms' are therefore marketed as essential tools for 21st century agriculture. this own-initiative report contains far too many inadmissible elements. it opens the door to changes i don't want. the few interesting findings are drowned in a disturbing ultra-liberal tide. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ according to the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations, the world population will reach 9.1 billion by 2050; as a result, the food supply will have to be increased by 60%. this is an opportunity that the european agri-food industry will no doubt seize. to encourage this, the report supports a widespread use of information and communication technologies (ict) to improve 'competitiveness and innovation'. the usual european leitmotifs with the hoped-for result of higher productivity and incomes, and even job creation. however, it is useful to recall the consequences of the 'green revolution' of the 1930s and 1960s. during this period, other new technologies were introduced with known negative effects on small farmers, the environment and food sovereignty. we are paying the price today. in addition, this report risks opening the door to gmos, and the solutions advocated, which are based mainly on technology and machines, cannot be the right ones. instead, we must move towards a change of system, towards a way of producing that is agro-ecological and that defends small farmers. i therefore voted against without hesitation.
madam president, madam mogherini, you have made a very fine speech to us, but it does not correspond to the reality of your policies. mr timmermans, in a way, is more forthright. the world is facing a humanitarian crisis. here is the reality of this humanitarian crisis, according to unhcr: 28 million newly displaced people in 2015 fled conflict and natural disasters; the european union is the richest economic area in the world, and its solidarity is zero or close to zero. of the 160,000 promised relocations, only 1,500 have actually taken place. the union has given in to turkish blackmail and now wants to model this agreement for africa. all the external policies of the union should be mobilised to force the recalcitrant states to readmit the migrants, as if africa were not already experiencing a terrible humanitarian crisis. 25% of the world's refugees are there, and 87% of african migration is intra-african. far from stopping the migration, you're going to make it even more dangerous. already 2,500 dead since the beginning of the year, probably more than 7,000 by the end of the year. the 10,000 mark has been crossed since 2014, according to unhcr announcements. how dare you tell us today that the model of the smugglers has lived? they adapt. i do not see change, i see revolution, i see cynicism, including the leakage of funds from the edf to countries like eritrea and sudan, and we are seeing the damage today.
madam president, many of us, of course, share the impetus and ambition of the cooperation, aid and partnership project with the targeted third countries, a partnership which we have been hoping for for a long time, since tampere, as guy verhofstadt has just emphasized. i would like to ask you today about the priority you have given at the beginning of the text, namely the priority of saving lives in the mediterranean, especially since just five or six days ago a terrible shipwreck of 700 people illustrated this urgency. taking your word for the strategic vision, the paradigm shift you spoke about, by offering to put it into action, not just words or intentions. that is why i cannot understand why, at a time when we are working hard on the regulation on the establishment of a european border and coast guard, the council and the european commission refuse to accept that rescue and search at sea should be an integral part of the integrated management of the external borders. that is one of the missions of frontex, let us take advantage of this strong political will to make our words and our words coherent with our actions through this text on the creation of a coast guard corps at the external borders.
mr president, it was an interesting debate, but at the same time i remain hungry. i think that europe really needs to have a clear strategy, a vision, and that is not quite the case today: we give the impression of 'suffering' rather than acting. and yet we must act, we must act in two directions. firstly, we must have a real development policy: it is useless to tell, morning, noon and evening, that we are the ones who give the most money to africa, we must rethink our development policy so that it is useful and effective, which is not the case today. secondly, we must build legal pathways for economic immigration. it's the only way to fight illegal immigration; for example, multiple-entry visas are required to allow a migrant to come to work for a few months, return home and possibly return when he has work. we must fight against all employers - i am thinking of the agricultural and the construction sectors - who employ illegal immigrants, and at the same time we must make sure that readmissions are effective. and it is by walking on these two legs that europe may finally be able to provide an answer to this question.
member of the commission. – mr president, i do not hide that you inspire me to speak in greek tonight but since it will be all greek to everybody, i come back our working language. honourable members of the parliament, mr president, i am really pleased to present before you today a revised eu blue card proposal and an eu action plan on integration. from the very beginning, this house has valued the importance of having sound and forward-looking legal migration policies, which are the other important side of the coin of managing migration comprehensively and in an effective way. but legal migration goes beyond migration and mobility as such. it plays an important role in strengthening the eu’s competitiveness and it can address demographic challenges and labour shortages. while, on the one hand, we will need to continue investing in the skills of our existing workforce and addressing unemployment, the rapid ageing of the population in the european union will require us to attract skills from abroad to address shortages in specific sectors. i will give you two examples. in the ict sector we need more than 100 000 highly skilled professionals per year. in the health sector there will be around one million unfilled highly skilled vacancies by 2020. even if we upskill our labour force, this takes time. besides that, we will still need more people to fill the shortages. let me also state another fact, which i know is difficult to hear in the current context: european societies are and will continue to become increasingly diverse. today there are 20 million non-eu nationals residing in the european union – around 4% of its total population. the key element here is not to fight this reality but to embrace it and turn it into an advantage by ensuring the successful integration of migrants – including, of course, refugees – into the host societies as soon as possible, therefore maximising the benefits of immigration. today’s proposals address all these issues. on the blue card, the european union is increasingly competing with the growing number of other destinations for the same global pool of talent. we want to become more attractive than countries such as australia, canada and the united states of america. therefore, the eu needs to establish a more efficient, transparent and simpler scheme for attracting highly skilled workers. this will bring substantial benefits to the european union in terms of innovation, transfer of technology and increased investment flows. this will enhance the european union’s competitiveness and help create new jobs. in fact, the new blue card scheme would bring an estimated post-dip annual economic impact of between eur 1.4 billion to eur 6.2 billion from additional highly skilled workers coming to the european union to take up jobs. right now, the existing blue card is unattractive, unknown and fragmented. so, how can we change? how can we remedy these shortcomings? today’s proposal aims at establishing an ambitious europe-wide scheme. it will be easier to qualify for the eu blue card. the scheme is also made more accessible if you have graduated recently or work in a shortage occupation. the eu blue card is also made accessible to highly skilled beneficiaries of international protection. this will allow them to make full use of their potential and skills and support their integration. the blue card can be obtained faster because the maximum processing time is shorter. the new proposal also provides for enhanced rights in terms of intra-eu mobility, access to employment and long-term residence, and for family members. on the action plan on integration, we are not starting from scratch on integration but we should learn from the past when looking at the future. if we look at integration outcomes across the european union, third country nationals continue to face barriers in the education systems or the labour market. they are more at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the recent inflow of third country nationals to europe, and in particular of refugees, represents an additional challenge but is also an opportunity and we have to seize this window of opportunity. it is therefore high time to investment more on integration if we want to ensure that all third country nationals can fully contribute to our economies and societies. i want to be very clear: the cost of non-integration in the longer-term will be higher than the cost of investing today in effective integration policies. on the other hand, if we succeed in making integration a success story, this will be highly beneficial, both for the host countries and for the migrants themselves. effective integration also entails an understanding and subscribing to eu fundamental rights and values. this is an essential element of living and participating in the european union, and we should not shy away from addressing this question when we define what it means to live in and belong to europe. now, while we fully recognise that integration policies are made and done at national, and particularly at regional and local levels, it is also true that those levels across the european union are experiencing the same challenges. so the european union has a role to play in supporting all stakeholders in this process in coordinating and in helping structurally and financially. the action plan adopted today offers a comprehensive framework to support member states’ efforts in developing and strengthening their integration policies. it targets all third country nationals in the european union while including several actions that address the specific challenges faced by refugees. the key areas of action that we have identified are: firstly, support to third country nationals, but also the communities that welcome them at the earliest possible moment in the migration process through pre-departure and pre-arrival measures. secondly, education and training. thirdly, integration of third country nationals into the labour market and into vocational training. fourthly, facilitating access to basic services such as adequate and affordable housing and health. fifthly, and finally, the action plan also proposes to strengthen the coordination between the various actors working on integration at national, regional and local level and proposes a more strategic approach towards the use of eu funds for integration, not only asylum, migration and integration funds but also the european social fund and other relevant eu funds. honourable members of the parliament, i look forward to hearing your comments on our proposals today but most importantly, i count on you to help us turn them into reality as soon as possible. it was one and a half years ago that i was committed to bring this proposal here today and i am more than happy to do so.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, for several years now, in the face of the shortcomings of the 2009 blue card directive, we have been calling for an ambitious reform of this text and we have been saying, in particular my group in this parliament, that there is an urgent need for europe to have a genuinely effective policy on legal immigration, successful integration, while at the same time fighting both illegal immigration and illegal work. four points quickly: to do this we must really review this legislative instrument in depth - as you have pointed out, commissioner - to avoid a half-hearted reform, as we unfortunately often do, which means that we have to put the work back on the table a few years later to adapt it to the situation. in short, let us achieve together a reform that is meaningful and courageous, let us legislate with ambition, as we are accustomed to say here. secondly, we must adapt the system by setting up legal immigration quotas for the union and do so country by country, sector by sector, according to the needs of the european economy, for example, thirdly, with a european portal containing information on the needs, on the job opportunities that the union needs in order for the system to function smoothly, correctly and efficiently. finally, as guy verhofstadt pointed out in the previous debate, let us not create 28 devices, but one device that is readable, effective and usable. in conclusion, this new blue card must perhaps be a 'realistic' equivalent of the american green card in order to attract innovation and stimulate our european economic development, which is in dire need of it.
madam president, 7 june 2016 will go down as an interesting date in the history of immigration in europe. on that day, the brussels commission announced its plan to increase legal immigration. it proposes to improve the european blue card, which was created in 2009 to attract a skilled workforce. the objective, as announced by commissioner avramopoulos at his press conference, is to bring in 20 million legal immigrants in addition to the illegal ones. i think that is progress, because just a year ago the same commissioner put forward the figure of 50 million. the successes of the national front in france and the fpö in austria have already meant that we have 30 million fewer immigrants. a few more patriots hits and we'll be down to a much lower number. we will do so, mr avramopoulos, because the real solution to overcoming our demographic deficit is to encourage states to develop natalist policies and not to bring in immigrants.
in writing. the commission's proposals to reform the blue card will have only a limited impact on strengthening european economic dynamism. this mechanism will remain inadequate as long as only highly qualified third-country nationals are covered. on the contrary, this reform should be an opportunity to move beyond the overly restrictive approach of european policies on legal migration. we also need to match the eu's economic immigration policy with the gaps in the european labour market. instead of starting from the principle that we should attract workers with high skills, it is important to target all types of skills in sectors where there is a shortage of labour and where european nationals would not respond to the call. in addition, the blue card could become a single work permit allowing free movement throughout the eu. closing the door to this possibility would curb our growth potential, which would be all the more damaging given the demographic challenges we face. the commission should have proposed a comprehensive framework for the residence of third-country nationals in the union, in order to be able to respond fully to the needs of the european labour market.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome the commission's initiative on competences. skills are now the key to responding to the profound changes in europe, which are reflected in a polarisation of jobs with highly skilled and creative jobs on the one hand and low-skilled jobs on the other. i believe that the real challenge is to enable all europeans to have a level of competence which translates into knowledge, know-how and also a know-how in line with the needs of businesses. in this sense, i believe that we must do everything possible to promote training through learning, which must be developed but also revalorized, at all levels of education, whether in initial or continuing training. we also need to look ahead and work on the skills of the future. in this sense, a skills information platform could be a first step, but it would also require personalised support for jobseekers and, in particular, the most vulnerable, who do not necessarily have the skills to cope with a digital platform. i would like to congratulate you on your commitment, but i would stress the need for the member states to commit themselves to this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i think we really need to remind our member states of the need to work on skills and, in particular, on learning. in my country, france, the government has made learning one of its priorities. in any case, he announced it, but at the same time he took measures which really discouraged businesses, and in particular the craftsmen who, precisely, employ apprentices and promote apprenticeship. so where i agree with you is that there is really work to be done in the member states and in my own country, france, in particular.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, parliament has indeed been working for ten years on the allegations of detention, torture, imprisonment and thus the illegal activities of the cia in the european union. at every meeting in this house, certain groups, under pressure from the governments concerned, have tried to prevent our work from going ahead, and they continue to do so. in the present case, the violations of these fundamental rights are serious and committed on behalf of a foreign power. they are proven and denounced, including by the us senate. the member states and the council cannot hide behind the treaties. shame is not enough, minister. member states should carry out the investigations. we want the truth, because it is the only way to prevent such events from happening again, so that the victims finally have the right to justice. nothing justifies torture, nothing! you know what? finally, i would like to take this opportunity to express my regret that, contrary to the promises made by president obama, guantanamo prison is still not closed and that men are still being held there, without any legal basis.
for the greens/efa group mr. speaker, in december 2014, the us senate released a report on the cia's use of torture. this report confirms the suspicions regarding the involvement of several member states in illegal detention programmes and the fact that the use of torture was tolerated on european soil from 2001 to 2006. those responsible for these acts must be brought to justice. the inaction of the member states and the european institutions in this respect is unacceptable. we cannot tolerate impunity for such human rights violations. the investigation must continue. it is a shame that political groups in this house are calling for the european parliament to stop its work on these many and terrible human rights violations and are opposed to the full exposure of these illegal practices and the complicity of some member states. the european institutions must ensure that the opacity and difficulties faced by the states in the context of these investigations are removed. until the full truth is established, it is our responsibility to ensure that the investigations continue. the credibility of our institutions is at stake, particularly that of the european parliament, which has so far saved the honour of the european union. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will be able to keep him on course.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the european union has so far been ahead in space, and it is particularly important that it remains ahead, given that the space sector is facing major changes at international level today and this requires a european response to the challenges, which are immense. the united states is investing, russia adopted a new space strategy in 2014, china has started to launch communications satellites and india has also understood that it must play today in the court of the space powers. the european union must therefore do everything in its power to avoid being pushed back. access to space is a strategic issue for our political and economic independence. the wealth of space data is not being exploited sufficiently and we would benefit from using it more widely by developing a real space market in europe. for this, of course, we must give galileo and copernicus our full support, because we need these technical tools to fulfil all our ambitions in this field. we must also, as you have very well said, prepare ourselves for applications in a number of sectors, including the automotive sector, the airline industry and many others. i could also take an example, because the impact of the space sector is important in the field of agriculture - i will finish - and the environment, but we also need a real global strategy because, in the field of cop 21, for example, mr president, with space, we will have a real vision of what is happening at the level of our oceans, also at the level of the limits for greenhouse gas emissions. that is why, in conclusion, europe must be the launching pad for a truly global strategy and must remain a major space power, provided it supports its industrial base.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am shocked by this first-class funeral you are giving to the ambitions of space independence that france has brought to europe, including within the space agency. i find in this propaganda report a concentration of propaganda and submission, which often constitute the debates of this parliament. submission, when you want to concede our space ambition to nato and the united states. even if you also talk about european independence, you are not fooling anyone. the ambition of independence is all-round independence, outside nato, therefore. propaganda, when you talk to us about hybrid war to increase the pressure for the warsaw summit, where the scent of war against russia will be carried on the corpse of a great independent europe for a multipolar world of peace. so, i say to you solemnly, france will carry its space ambitions with the states that want to remain free in the future, far from a feudal europe.
mr president, madam commissioner, i say to you as vice-president of the sky and space intergroup that we must fight above all for our independence of access to space. it is essential for us to keep full control of our own growth, but it is threatened. to succeed, we must be firm, pragmatic and innovative. we are firm in our intention: industry needs public contracts that are intended for it. are we ready to schedule the next galileo and copernicus? national preference for institutional commands and firings is the global standard, except in europe. why not impose european preference? are we so afraid of it? citizens need a public authority that invests in its existing infrastructure, like kourou. will europe finally play its part in financing the firing range and the connection to the new transatlantic cable? to demand a strategic and visionary commission is to be realistic, because our customers today will be our competitors tomorrow: india very soon, and perhaps after indonesia, or even saudi arabia. so we absolutely have to innovate to stand out. are the commission and the member states prepared to provide the three to five institutional launches per year which are essential for the programme to be profitable? the matter is still open. the cnes has just announced a research partnership with japan on reusable launchers. this is good news, but europe is lagging far behind on these major innovations. does the commission have a strategy? here's the whole set... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago you adopted almost unanimously the juncker plan, presented as the most important rescue plan in history, which was supposed to boost public investment and economic growth in europe. but admit that a year later, your rescue plan has turned into a smoke screen. in a word, it's a total failure. failure, because the european fund for strategic investments, with a budget of eur 21 billion, has not been able to draw enough private capital, the return on public investment being by definition lower. failure, because investments financed under this european fund have concentrated on large-scale projects in city centres, neglecting many local projects in the process, with the consequence of increasing regional disparities. the figures speak for themselves: economic growth has stalled, youth unemployment is at an all-time high and poverty is spreading across europe. in reality, the juncker plan aims to create a dependence on european funds while imposing a budgetary diet on the member states, and this for the sole purpose of uniting our peoples around your disastrous project, which destroys national identities. but the people of europe are not fooled, they are waking up at this moment, as i want to see in the results of the fpö in austria or in the polls in the united kingdom, where the brexit camp is declared the winner. whether you like it or not, a europe of nations and freedoms is on the march.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for allowing me to intervene in the debate. i think it is better to be more interactive in this way. i have just a few comments on the interventions we have heard so far. it is very important for the eib to remain a triple-a bank, because triple-a status has a direct connection to the financing power the eib has. but i fully agree with members who have said that the eib should take more risk, and for this reason we have established the efsi. it enables the eib to finance projects which are seen as more risky and is worth eur 63 billion. this is what the eib is doing at the moment. the eib has done an excellent job. apart from adding finance to risky projects, it has upgraded its presence in many of our member states, including greece, in order to help the greek authorities, and the private sector especially, to benefit from efsi and benefit from other financial instruments of the eib. the eib has done its share very, very well. one issue i want to raise in the debate – and i want to raise awareness amongst meps on this issue – is that it is also possible to combine structural funds with efsi. we already have a very good example of this kind of financing in northern france where the nord-pas-de-calais region has organised an investment platform which aims to gather together a large number of smes and start—ups, especially in the digital field. they will use private capital, regional money and efsi funds in order to provide risk financing for those companies. you can find this example on the website. this is a model which could be copied in the other countries, especially the cohesion countries. there we need the help of meps, because you know efsi funds and you know the regions. efsi is a demand—driven fund. i am happy that we have one genuine circular economic project which has got financing from efsi, but i am dissatisfied that there is only one. so, again, we have to raise awareness amongst circular economy players and investors that efsi can really provide something which the market cannot provide, or does not provide, at the moment. efsi is a perfect instrument for the circular economy, for new innovation and new technology investments, which for some reason cannot get full financing from the market. there again, the role of meps is crucial. the eib does not create projects, it only finances them, and that is why we have to raise awareness amongst investors, and also amongst the regions and cities to use efsi for new innovations. i want to raise one issue. we are following very closely what is going on in our member states in terms of efsi activities and related things. i have very good information on the activities of meps. so far only a handful of meps have organised efsi events in their regions or member states. a very good example of these kinds of activities was last week, when i had a chance to visit mr pittella’s and mr gualtieri’s event, where southern italian regional leaders came together. we were talking about opportunities to use efsi for southern italian purposes. also, ms spyraki has organised events in greece, ms paunova in bulgaria, and mr guoga in lithuania. this is exactly what we need at the moment. we need to raise awareness of what efsi can do and what efsi has done in other countries in order to make it possible to use efsi in a more efficient way. if you want to see the projects which have already been signed, you can find all the projects on the internet. it is very good to look at them and pass the message on to the other regions about what the others have already done. efsi will not solve all the problems in europe. in the best case, it can provide financing or it can help to get investments worth eur 315 billion euros. this is only one third of what is needed. that is why the other parts of the investment plans are even more important than efsi. it is easier to talk about money when we are talking about eur 315 billion, or what efsi has already financed, but the rest of the plan is even more important. that is why i expect co—legislators to be as fast when implementing, or when approving, single market—related proposals as we were when we approved efsi legislation. it took only six months to push efsi through the parliament and the council. why should we wait longer when dealing with, for instance, a waste legislation proposal or digital single market-related proposals? so the internal market-side of the plan is even more important than efsi, even though efsi is very much needed.
madam president, the juncker fund is perhaps the european commission's flagship initiative. it aims to fill the investment gap that europe has suffered for a decade. the first projects financed are numerous and encouraging, but it is still too early to draw up a reliable balance sheet and, in this respect, mr katainen, you will have to dispel three doubts. the first doubt concerns the requirement of additionality of the fund, i.e. its added value. we will have to show that without the juncker fund, the projects in question would not have been financed. the second doubt concerns the temptation to which some public investors might succumb to deconsolidate capital expenditure and the corresponding debt, in order to make the presentation of public accounts visually lighter. the third doubt concerns the risk of replacing market operators with the european investment bank, which has the competitive advantage of the guarantee of the fund. the fund is stimulating, but we must bear in mind that the obstacles to investment are still very much in place. firstly, in the market sector, investment is conditioned by competitiveness. that is, if countries that are slow to reform cannot expect a miracle. beyond the member states, the union has its own brakes, particularly when the monetary environment is under question. investors are afraid of uncertainty. there is an urgent need to settle the uk referendum, to draw the consequences and to reform the governance of the euro area to make it more efficient and more democratic. finally, the commitment of operators depends on the predictability and stability of the market rules. in many areas, the single market is fragmented by national regulations, by local competition authorities. there is also an urgent need to complete the single market, to speed up the convergence of tax and social legislation, in short, to make the euro area and the european union an optimal economic area. the commission is clearly pleased with the initial results of the juncker fund and is considering making it permanent. financial engineering can increase volumes tenfold. the guarantee must, however, be called in in the form of a clear and unambiguous sum. but before we do so, as we come to the end of the first of the three years, let us be sure to dispel the doubts i have just expressed and to remove without delay the obstacles to investment, growth and employment.
madam president, mr vice-president, we must make the investment plan a success, so let us give ourselves the means to make it a success. you said earlier that the efsi is there to finance what the market cannot finance. but that's where the real work begins. doubts are mounting as to the additionality of the system. the eib's choices do not seem any riskier than before and our objectives concerning employment, cohesion and the energy transition are being neglected. we must correct the system as quickly as possible so that it can help projects other than those with a high level of profitability and which could probably have been financed by the market. one of the corrections which i think is necessary is to abandon the search for the highest multiplier effect, which mechanically implies that the most profitable projects are retained and that the most risky but often most structural projects are rejected at the same time. it is not a question of throwing the baby out with the bath water, but of adapting the system so that it can respond to projects with a low multiplier effect and less profitable, but - as i said - more structural, responding in particular to the priorities of energy transition, cohesion and employment.
madam president, commissioner, in order to prevent the efsi from being a mere increase in the eib's capital, the european parliament, aware of the abundance of liquidity on the market, had defined the conditions for using the money of the european taxpayer, namely european added value and the additionality of the projects selected. what is the situation one year later? in the transport sector, for example, the additionality and european added value of the projects selected, mainly motorway projects, do not seem to be optimal. for projects more in line with european political priorities, additionality will often require linking with financial instruments and grants. in this connection, we cannot but regret the budgetary cut made to the interconnection mechanism for europe by 2020, which runs counter to the very effectiveness of the plan. the qualitative improvement of projects requires a proactive approach from the union as well. the successful national and regional coordination in project selection requires improving results with the national promotion banks. all this will be in vain if we do not act in parallel to create an attractive environment for investors, i.e. the necessary development of the regulatory framework for the financing of the real economy, and in particular infrastructure. europe must defend this priority in the international institutions responsible for developing these prudential standards to which institutional investors are subject.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your support for the juncker plan. we european socialists wanted this plan and the european parliament wanted it too. we are glad that you are considering extending it because, indeed, investment in europe is going badly. paradoxically, low interest rates do not encourage investment. there are countries that have difficulty in mobilizing investment projects, where it takes ten years to start building a bridge, and there are those that do not have the necessary financing. so, yes, the juncker plan was necessary. it needs to be extended. but we wanted this plan on other terms than the ones you agreed to hear. we wanted an additional plan, we wanted a job-creating plan, we wanted a plan for the ecological transition and we wanted a plan for the cohesion of the european union. none of these criteria are met. and i'll add that to fund it, you'll have to either re-launch the securitization or accept chinese funds unconditionally. so, yes, we want to continue with this investment plan with you, but not under any conditions. it is time you listened to the european parliament.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mr katainen, vice-president of the commission, for his action and for his great personal availability to welcome the project promoters and the regional leaders. eighteen months later, the juncker plan is an institutional and administrative success: the mechanism has been set up and has reached its cruise speed within the announced deadlines. but the question marks we had at the beginning remain, first of all on the quality of the projects: are we sure that these are innovative investments whose implementation will make the eu more competitive? the list of projects selected gives the impression that they would have been created with existing funding. is the special fund more than just an additional bank branch of the eib? finally, on the macroeconomic outcome: the objective was to bring investment in the union back to the level of 2008. you didn't tell us anything about that. however, despite the collapse in interest rates, despite the mass of savings and liquidity available, despite the special fund, investment has not restarted and since 2007, foreign direct investment has fallen by 15%. the mid-term review should therefore be an opportunity to adjust the system or the objective.
i'm the reporter. madam president, (inaudible) i would like to thank all my colleagues in the parliamentary groups who have invested a lot in the decision we are going to take in the next few minutes, i hope, because they are aware that this is an important moment for tunisia and that we must stand by it. everyone in this house is aware of the major challenges facing tunisia: economic challenges, with exploding unemployment, extremely strong regional disparities between the tunis region and southern tunisia, and because there were also, of course - we all remember this - terrorist attacks which put an end to tourism. you have to know that tourism in tunisia is 500,000 jobs and there is no tourism in tunisia today. security challenge, i just talked about with the bombings. we all remember the bombing of the bardo museum, we all remember the bombing of sousse, we also saw what happened on the libyan-tunisian border. tunisia has almost 500 kilometers of border with libya, a country terribly destabilized with all the trafficking, the jihadist attack -- i was talking about it a second ago -- all the drug trafficking, human trafficking. i also want to talk about not just the security challenge but the migration challenge. it should be remembered that our tunisian friends have taken in more than 1 800 000 refugees from libya, which is almost 20% of their population. these are the challenges and difficulties facing the tunisians, and despite these challenges, tunisia is on the path to democracy. its democratic transition is absolutely remarkable. we should remember that the nobel peace prize was awarded to tunisian civil society to encourage it to continue along this path, and for all these reasons, these difficulties and, at the same time, the fact that tunisia is keeping the course, even in difficult times, we europeans must be at its side. that is why we are presenting this morning this macro-financial assistance plan of 500 million the second to help tunisia, which needs these funds. this plan is part of an overall european strategic policy towards tunisia. we have opened trade negotiations, and even beyond trade. in other words, the idea of a political and economic partnership with nafta has been opened up. we have taken emergency measures with olive oil quotas - 35 000 tonnes of zero-duty amounts per year for tunisia - and today we are discussing this macrofinancial assistance. it is a 500 million aid, the second over 15 years, conditional on a number of reforms, which i really hope will be relevant, not just accounting and will really serve the development of tunisia. if this report is adopted now - which i think it is - i think the council will support it and i really ask the commission to make these disbursements of capital as soon as possible, before the summer, because tunisia needs it. people sometimes think that this macrofinancial assistance is a gift or a grant. it's just a loan, we're lending money to tunisia, which they'll have to pay back. i should like to say a word about the tunisian debt, which is obviously increasing. i would like to open a line of thought - and i would be glad if the commission would listen to it - that france and germany have decided to convert part of their debt to tunisia - 60 million for france, 60 million for germany - in exchange for investments for the development of that country. i think that is very relevant and intelligent, and i really invite the commission to think and think about things in this way for the future, beyond the plan we are going to adopt this morning. i think that would be more useful and more sensible for tunisia. what france and germany have done, the european institutions should, in my view, also propose to tunisia. ladies and gentlemen, we all see that we must stand with tunisia and the tunisian people. we owe it to them, but we also owe it to our european union, to our europe. we need a stable, prosperous and peaceful tunisia alongside europe.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mrs de sarnez, and the committee on international trade (inta), for the valuable work on this report. as we all know, tunisia faces enormous political economic challenges, and that is the reason why the commission made its proposal for a macro—financial assistance operation in that country. tunisia is confronted with the consequences of the terrorist attacks of 2015. the result is that its vital tourism sector, in particular, has been seriously affected and foreign investments have sharply declined. these developments have led to falling growth rates and foreign currency reserves. this shows that the situation is very acute, and tunisia needs international financial systems in order to stabilise and further political transition started during the arab spring of 2011. international bilateral donors, led by the imf, have clearly expressed their willingness to support tunisia, now and in the near future. the commission can and should contribute to these renewed financial support efforts and we propose to do so by providing a new macro-financial assistance (mfa) of eur 500 million which builds on the previous mfa operation of eur 300 million. it is foreseen that this new assistance, which is the largest mfa ever given to a country of the southern neighbourhood, will be disbursed in three tranches over the next two years. this exceptional assistance effort must also be seen against the background of the courageous efforts and significant progress that tunisia has been making in recent years to establish a fully—fledged democratic system, despite the difficult regional and security environment. of course, the new mfa operation will be subject to the fulfilment of a number of economic policy conditions. indeed, tunisia must satisfactorily implement the new imf programme and fulfil economic and financial policy conditions to be agreed between the eu and tunisia in a memorandum of understanding. potential policy measures could cover areas such as public finance management, fiscal reforms, strengthening the social safety net, labour market reforms and measures to support the recovery of the tourism sector, as well as in trade and investment. i would like to stress that timing is of the essence here. tunisia requires the micro-financial assistance to cover its large external financing needs for 2016 and 2017, so a swift adoption of the current proposal by co-legislators, under the ordinary legislative procedure is very important. therefore, i am pleased that the inta committee has approved the commission proposal without amendment. i am also pleased that the council in the letter from coreper, has expressed its commitment to adopting a commission proposal without amendments, subject to the same outcome at today’s plenary vote. thank you for your attention and i look forward to having a fruitful debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ever since the tunisians embarked on a democratic transition, which everyone here has pointed out was exemplary, the european parliament has always wanted to stand in solidarity with tunisia and, of course, with the tunisians. we were also, although this gave rise to much debate among ourselves, when the olive oil quota had to be extended to zero duty for the tunisian economy; we are now in a situation where we are dealing with this question of macrofinancial assistance. so, of course, we do, the s&d group, and for the text as it stands. why would you do that? because it's an emergency and it has to be done fast. that is the only reason why we are in favour of the text as it stands. but at the same time there are a number of things to be remembered in this debate. first, when we say that tunisia must be able to make structural reforms. i call on the commission to be very flexible, to be as intelligent as possible in this respect, because it is not a question of completely stifling the tunisian economy either. that's the first point. secondly, we are talking about mfa, but who says mfa, says ready, who says ready, says debt, and the tunisian debt is a problem today. this is a problem that is inherited from the ben ali period and the money that is lent to the tunisians should not be used for only one thing, namely to pay back the interest on the debt that it had incurred under the old regime. that's a second problem. third problem, very important for us: precisely, the assets of ben ali, there are still many hidden in europe and there are obviously things to do from the point of view of europe because there are also in european countries to solve this problem. the fact that we are in favour of this emergency aid should not prevent us from thinking about the longer term. we must show solidarity in a sustainable way and not limit ourselves to emergency aid. that is why the s&d group supports this text.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, yes, we must of course help the tunisian people, we must support the spirit of responsibility of tunisian society, trade union organisations and political forces so that the democratic transition can continue and improve the lives of tunisians. but this aid cannot be given on the old imf terms, which increase indebtedness and reduce popular sovereignty. we should be with tunisia - and more broadly with the peoples of the south - more bold, more inventive, by creating a common public bank or, at least, a common fund so that existing debts can be frozen and transformed into a sustainable development project, creating jobs, promoting human and ecological development. at the same time, it is high time that the assets confiscated by the ben ali family are repatriated and returned to the tunisian people.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the extremely difficult situation facing tunisia and the tunisian people today. we know the collapse of tourism-related resources, particularly as a result of the attacks, we know the difficulties of tunisia's exports and we have done well in facilitating the conditions for olive oil exports to europe, we know the fragility and vulnerability of the democratic process which was launched five years ago. we know that tunisia today, in an area no larger than england, hosts as many refugees as the whole of the european union, and we know the extraordinary importance of this democratic light in our neighbourhood. so, obviously, at the request of the tunisian government, we must promote macro-financial assistance to tunisia and, at the same time, we must - and the european parliament voted in favour of this in 2012 - reverse tunisia's odious debt, especially that contracted during the ben ali years. it is imperative that the burden of debt be lightened. when we talk about structural reforms, ladies and gentlemen, look carefully at the situation in tunisia today and consider that, because this macrofinancial assistance is conditional on a programme from the monetary fund, we cannot support reforms which touch the basic needs of the tunisian people. we must now be extremely flexible on this aid, we must make much more donations to tunisia. i think that today, when we see the billions being given to the turkish government, which is not at all democratic, it would be a serious mistake not to give much more to tunisia to enable it to strengthen its democratic process on the basis of a careful development of its resources and its capacities. let's support tunisia.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, political fragility, the islamist threat, terrorist acts, neighbouring libya torn apart by a terrible civil war, an unprecedented economic crisis with the collapse of tourism - in short, the situation in tunisia remains worrying to say the least. the time is long gone when the tunisian model of democratic transition was welcomed without reservation. but my purpose in speaking is not to add fuel to the fire or to stir the knife in the wound. but unlike you, i do not welcome the dismantling of tunisian tariffs on industrial products. unlike you, i am not happy about this deep free trade area which you want to set up and which i do not believe is beneficial either for the europeans or for the tunisians. unlike you, i do not preach that, and i quote, "the union's macro-financial assistance should strengthen tunisia's adherence to the values it shares with the union". i, for one, denounce your perpetual desire to interfere, which creates more problems than it solves. let us not further weaken the precarious equilibrium which tunisia has achieved and let us finally work towards healthy cooperation rather than being put under tutelage.
madam president, commissioner, the terrorist attacks that have struck tunisia and the economic difficulties the country is facing are a reminder that tunisia needs the solidarity of the european union more than ever. the country is continuing its relentless transition towards a stable and sustainable democracy. the nobel prize awarded last october to the national dialogue quartet is proof of this. this new macrofinancial assistance is a loan - as has been said - which i hope will contribute to an economic recovery for the benefit of all tunisians and will, in particular, make it possible to meet the challenge of youth unemployment, which affects one in three graduates. the union must continue to support tunisia in its rapid return to economic growth and political stability for the benefit of the region as a whole.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, just very briefly, i want to underline the importance of the urgency of this decision, and in this context i hope that we can get support from parliament because we do not have any time to waste. thank you very much for your opinion. i think we have the same view on this issue and we have to look carefully at how to support tunisia because it is a matter of economic growth, it is a matter of social justice and it is also a matter of stability in our region.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, i am very, very impressed by the convergence of analysis and the spirit of all the colleagues who have spoken. we all agree that real solidarity with tunisia is needed, we all agree that the commission must urgently provide the funds, because tunisia is waiting for them. we all agree that yes, reforms are needed, but beware, we need to find a path that corresponds to where tunisia is today. and i would like to say that this morning - and i am happy about it - is another signal sent to our tunisian friends. we say to them this morning: 'you are not alone on your difficult journey: europe is with you.'
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which, in order to combat tax evasion, proposes to find a common solution so that companies pay their taxes where they actually make profits. since bilateral agreements are not enough to stop tax evasion in europe, i believe that it is essential to find a common solution while preserving our national sovereignty.
in writing. - i'm glad you voted for him. since 8 april i have been campaigning for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to shed light on these intolerable cases. the panama papers scandal has once again demonstrated that some banks, once masters at socializing their losses, are not playing the game. these banks, after being the subject of extensive bailouts since 2008, are accountable to citizens, especially to the millions of citizens who are struggling to make ends meet and who pay their taxes. europe must take stronger action against fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. it is time to put an end to tax havens and these old-fashioned practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague, mr enrique calvet chambon, which i hope will encourage the member states of the union to adopt an ambitious approach. european citizens are tired of unethical tax practices. the adoption of this report enables the european parliament to send a strong signal to the council and the commission. it is essential to address urgently the existing legal and technical loopholes allowing tax evasion. fair and equitable corporate taxation must become the cornerstone of the single market; it is not demagogy, nor is it a gratuitous attack on companies or commercial activities. the aim is to combat fraud on the basis of a competitive and productive approach and to protect small and medium-sized enterprises from the damage caused by such practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure which calls for the creation of a commission of inquiry into the panama papers scandal for a period of 12 months. the fight against tax evasion is an increasingly crucial issue for europe in the age of fiscal austerity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of this committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breach of eu law and maladministration in its application in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. the aim is to shed light on the panama papers case, in which, i should like to point out, the media and political authorities have behaved in a scandalous manner and have made arbitrary judgments, in particular by insinuating the involvement of patriotic parties. i therefore look forward to the fact that members, the only representatives of the voice of the people at european level, will be able to carry out this inquiry and determine their own implications in this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches of eu law on money laundering and tax evasion. the creation of this commission of inquiry echoes the revelations of the international consortium of investigative journalists on the panama papers. we cannot tolerate this kind of situation any longer. companies and individuals must declare their income and be taxed appropriately. i welcome the tax transparency package drawn up by the commission and call on the member states to take action to combat tax evasion. the mandate of the committee of inquiry seems appropriate to me in order to analyse the practices of money laundering and tax evasion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a committee of inquiry into allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering and tax evasion. this committee, of which i am a member, is to shed light on the panama papers scandal. i shall be particularly attentive to the question of money laundering to finance terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it is absolutely imperative to tackle money laundering and tax evasion, which too many multinational companies use with impunity. it is essential that the member states of the european union take joint action to investigate cases of violations and misapplication of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. that is why i support the setting up of this committee of inquiry, which will be composed of 65 members of the juri, libe and econ committees. i am therefore awaiting the recommendations of the members of this committee, which should be presented in the summer of 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of this new committee of inquiry, which should shed light on the panama papers scandal and tax evasion practices. the mandate of the committee will give it broad powers of inquiry, allow it to hear the main players in the case and to publish a report with concrete recommendations and proposals to combat tax evasion and tax evasion and money laundering more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the panama papers. after this scandal, which follows the luxleaks scandal, the european union must be at the forefront of the fight against tax evasion. it is indeed unusual that some large multinationals can evade tax.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of a european commission of inquiry into the panama papers scandal, in which at least one european commissioner seems to be involved. we must do everything possible to bring this tax evasion scandal to light. i would like to be part of that committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mandate of the panama papers commission of inquiry in view of the revelations of possible breaches of eu tax, anti-money laundering and corporate governance rules. i have in fact applied to be a member of this committee to represent the positions of the french delegation of the epp group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. the question must of course be asked whether the european parliament is well placed to investigate this matter, but the problem of tax evasion and tax fraud is too important not to be dealt with. we also need political solutions to tackle this problem.
in writing. ‒ it took the biggest tax scandal in history for the european parliament to use all the means at its disposal to devise a political response. on the tax justice front, the story is moving slowly. swissleaks had not given anything on political matters; luxleaks gave rise to the taxe special committee, and then its extension taxe 2, of which i am a member, but which still lacked the resources. without these special investigative tools, national administrations and multinational companies have given us only what they wanted to give us. this jolt is good for you. the creation of a committee of inquiry, which i have been advocating since 2014, finally signals a proportionate response from meps. we will be able to obtain and examine all the necessary documents, and have sufficient authority to summon all the parties to the case. of course, the tax exile of individuals, however media-driven it may be, will only be part of our work, which will be on the hunt for the hidden profits of multinational companies, sometimes with the cooperation of the states of the european union or at least with the help of complacent legislation. i have wholeheartedly supported the constitution of the committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposes the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. the commission is also proposing to set up a committee of meps to investigate the panama papers. it should be noted that this is a "commission of inquiry" with more extensive powers than the "special committees" that were granted to the european parliament for the luxleaks case. i vote for the establishment of this committee.
in writing. - i voted for the creation of a 12-month commission of inquiry into the panama papers scandal.
in writing. ‒ scandals related to tax evasion and tax avoidance mechanisms by multinational companies have been increasing since the luxleaks case in november 2014. in order to protect the president of the european commission, mr juncker, the members of his socialist majority and the epp had refused to set up a committee of inquiry, contenting themselves with a temporary, less solemn committee. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud, and calls for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the european union is always behind the fraudsters and the review committees have so far failed to bring any of those responsible to justice. it is feared that the same will be true of this new committee, even if it needs to be supported in principle.
in writing. ‒ i vote for the creation of a commission of inquiry into the serious acts of which both the companies and the administration itself are suspected. i shall, however, be attentive to the proper functioning of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of the new commission of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. after the panama papers revelations, it was essential that the european parliament react by looking for the loopholes that led to such a scandal.
in writing. ‒ i vote for the creation of a commission of inquiry into the serious acts of which both the companies and the administration itself are suspected. i shall, however, be attentive to the proper functioning of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the establishment of a commission of inquiry following the revelations of the so-called panama papers. the commission will be asked to investigate possible breaches or maladministration in the application of european legislation on money laundering and tax evasion. the committee, which has 65 meps, will have 12 months to present its final report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the establishment of this committee of inquiry of our assembly, which is following the revelations of the panama papers. similar in form to the emis committee of inquiry of which i am a member, its task will be to investigate allegations of infringement and maladministration in the application of european legislation on money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. the 65 colleagues who will be members of this committee will have 12 months to present their report and i encourage them to shed light on the responsibilities of each individual in this matter, since the practices of money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud are unacceptable and must be combated and stopped.
in writing. - i supported the creation of a commission of inquiry into the panama papers, which follows the revelations published a few weeks ago. the committee of inquiry will be made up of 65 meps and will aim to publish a detailed report within a year. the aim will be to analyse what has been revealed by the panama papers, as well as tax evasion practices. the commission will be able to hold hearings and make recommendations on how to combat tax evasion and fraud effectively.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposes to set up a committee of inquiry, which would be responsible for examining allegations of breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. the commission has repeatedly failed to ensure the application of directives on money laundering or administrative cooperation in the tax field; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directives. these are the issues which the future committee of inquiry will have to look into. the commission will also be responsible for making any recommendations it deems necessary on the subject, and will have to address key issues such as information exchange agreements or transparency in information on the beneficial owners, i.e. the persons who benefit from transactions. shortly after the panama papers scandal, such a proposal makes perfect sense; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we have managed to reach a comprehensive agreement with all the political groups on this text which will strengthen the social and cultural links between the european union and the republic of palau. this agreement will open up opportunities for eu citizens, who will now be able to travel to the country without a visa.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for visa liberalisation between the european union and the republic of palau. the aim here is to lift the visa requirement for residents of that country travelling to the territory of one or more member states of the union for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. as usual, the union is pursuing its policy of abolishing frontiers, which it has repeatedly denounced as unnecessary and harmful obstacles to the free movement of persons, goods and capital. it is a pernicious drift which must be opposed in the interests of the peoples, whether european or not. in addition, given the scale of the migration crisis, it is urgent to freeze any form of visa liberalisation. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as the committee had recommended in the main.
in writing. ‒ while the republic of palau and the kingdom of tonga, small pacific archipelagos with a population of less than 150,000, do not seem to pose any real problem, the same is true of the third country to benefit from the largesse of the eurocrats, colombia, with 48 million inhabitants and gangrenous drug trafficking. the technocrats in brussels are giving a real boost to their irresponsible policy of mass immigration, which has disastrous consequences for the already precarious balance of our european nations, both economically and socially, and in terms of identity and security. the european parliament's s&d (socialist) and epp groups, including the lr meps, voted for this visa exemption, which opens up new routes of illegal immigration and will worsen the migration chaos. while the european commission forecasts the arrival of 3 million additional migrants by 2017, the national front recalls that the only policy to avoid social, economic and cultural chaos is to restore our national borders, end all forms of laxity in the face of illegal immigration, drastically reduce legal immigration and reaffirm our identity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the text provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the republic of palau travelling to the eu for 90 days or less. this policy of massive visa liberalisation seems to me to be totally irresponsible in the context of the migration crisis the eu is going through. this is not an attitude of distrust of the citizens of the republic of micronesia, but visas allow any state to control who enters its territory and under what conditions; the fact that france, as a country of the union, cannot control part of its migration flows means that we cannot afford to see this situation worsened by an unnecessary extension of this visa liberalisation policy.
in writing. ‒ these three agreements provide for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and palau nationals who are travelling to the territory of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. i have nothing against the citizens of these countries, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any liberalization of visas. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and for nationals of the republic of palau who are travelling to one of the member states of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. at a time when the member states of the union are facing an unprecedented migration crisis, it would be completely inappropriate to conclude such an agreement which would accelerate the flow of migration into europe. we know that our 'old continent' is extremely attractive, particularly in terms of social protection, and that it is attracting a considerable number of tourists to benefit from these social benefits. it would therefore be wise to combat social tourism instead of liberalizing their visas. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. this visa-free regime for citizens of the union and palau nationals for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period should strengthen our economic and cultural relations by having a positive impact on both contracting parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and palau nationals who are travelling to the territory of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in view of the current migration crisis, any visa liberalization would be irresponsible. however, the risks are considered to be 'significant' due to the enhanced cooperation on return and the implementation of border controls. i voted against this text because i do not agree with this approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: we have nothing against the citizens of these countries, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ if we take the specific case of the republic of palau, i see no difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of this small island in oceania with a population of almost 20 000, of whom 40% are christians. the migration risk is zero. however, beyond this small republic, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions to countries with high migration and security risks such as ukraine, georgia and turkey. visa policy is not just a tool. it is also a political and geostrategic choice. however, it must take into account not only what it will bring to the third country concerned but also the impact on the member states.
in writing. ‒ these three agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for nationals of palau, tonga and colombia when they travel to the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. we have nothing against the citizens of these countries, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any liberalization of visas. i opposed all three of these texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of an agreement with the republic of palau to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to any liberalization of visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for the benefit of the nationals of palau when they travel to the territory of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. i have nothing against the citizens of this country, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe and the security problem that it raises, i am opposed to any further liberalization of visas.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to establish a visa-free regime for travel between nationals of both parties for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. given the current context of the migration crisis, i am opposed to any liberalization of visas, which is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ where cooperation with certain third countries allows, a reciprocal short-stay visa exemption (usually mainly for tourism) is negotiated. the council, acting on behalf of the states, shall decide. the criteria observed are as much the political situation, respect for human rights, as the type of migration. in concrete terms, the absence of 'risk of irregular migration'. this is the republic of palau, next to the philippines, with some 21,000 souls and as many coconut trees to offer. i see no reason to oppose this tourism, but in a broader context it is also a matter of appeasing the country with which the union is currently negotiating a regional free trade agreement. however, i am in favour of the development of tourism and cultural exchanges as a key advantage for the development of this country.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union but also for citizens of the republic of palau, for a maximum period of 90 days out of 180. as i am opposed to any liberalization of visas, in view of the migration crisis we are facing, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation and therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and the republic of palau for stays of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. as long as there is reciprocity and the duration of the stay is limited, there are no difficulties in granting visa-free travel to nationals of a country outside the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mariya gabriel. the european parliament must give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau, which has already been negotiated between the republic of palau and the european commission. the purpose of the proposal is to conclude an agreement with the republic of palau to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas. this agreement takes account of the situation of member states which do not yet apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the republic of palau who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation and therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and palau to the territory of the other party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and palau who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and palau who are travelling to the eu for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ we have managed to reach a comprehensive and balanced agreement with all political groups on this text which will strengthen the social and cultural links between the european union and the kingdom of tonga. this agreement will open up opportunities for eu citizens, who will now be able to travel to the country without a visa.
in writing. ‒ as in the two previous reports, this text aims to liberalize visas between the european union and a third country (in this case the tonga islands) considered safe due to the strengthening of cooperation on return and the correct implementation of border controls. gradually, the eu is thus making national and community borders obsolete. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ while the republic of palau and the kingdom of tonga, small pacific archipelagos with a population of less than 150,000, do not seem to pose any real problem, the same is true of the third country to benefit from the largesse of the eurocrats: colombia, a country of 48 million inhabitants and plagued by drug trafficking. the technocrats in brussels are giving a real boost to their irresponsible policy of mass immigration, which has disastrous consequences for the already precarious balance of our european nations, both economically and socially, and in terms of identity and security. the european parliament's s&d (socialist) and epp groups, including the lr meps, voted for this visa exemption, which opens up new routes of illegal immigration and will worsen the migration chaos. while the european commission forecasts the arrival of 3 million additional migrants by 2017, the national front recalls that the only policy to avoid social, economic and cultural chaos is to restore our national borders, to end all forms of laxity in the face of illegal immigration, to drastically reduce legal immigration and to reaffirm our identity.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to oppose this agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement comes at a time when the european union has proved incapable of giving a coherent response to the migration crisis and yet dares to continue to open the doors of the european territory to all winds. visas are not a brake, but part of a protective structure, allowing a sovereign state to control the movement of people into its territory. they therefore concern a measure of security and common sense which the eu wants to abolish only by ideology of the single market without frontiers.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the eu for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. i have nothing against the citizens of this country, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and nationals of the kingdom of tonga who are travelling to one of the eu member states for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. at a time when the eu member states are facing an unprecedented migration crisis, it would be highly inappropriate to conclude such an agreement which would accelerate the flow of migration into europe. we know that our 'old continent' is extremely attractive, particularly in terms of social protection, and that a considerable number of tourists are attracted to these social benefits; it would therefore be wise to combat social tourism instead of liberalizing their visas. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver, which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement will not only strengthen the political dialogue between the two sides, but also economic relations.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the eu for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in view of the current migration crisis, any visa liberalization would be irresponsible. however, the risks are considered to be manageable through enhanced cooperation on return and the implementation of border controls. i voted against this text because i disagree with this approach.
in writing. ‒ i vote against: we have nothing against the citizens of these countries, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ if we take the specific case of the kingdom of tonga, i see no difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of this small pacific island of almost 100 000 inhabitants whose population is much more attracted to australia and new zealand than to europe. the migration risk is zero. however, beyond the case of this constitutional monarchy, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions to countries with high migration and security risks such as ukraine, georgia and turkey. visa policy is not just an instrument. it is also a political and geostrategic choice. however, it must not only take into account what it will bring to the third country concerned but also the impact on the member states.
in writing. ‒ these three agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for nationals of palau, tonga and colombia when they travel to the eu for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. we have nothing against the citizens of these countries, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation. i opposed all three of these texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of an agreement with the kingdom of tonga to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to any liberalization of visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for nationals of the kingdom of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the eu for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. i have nothing against the citizens of this country, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe and the security problem that it creates, i am opposed to any further visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to establish a visa-free regime for travel between nationals of both parties for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. given the current context of the migration crisis, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation, which is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. these three texts provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for nationals of palau, tonga and colombia when they visit the territory of the eu member states for a maximum period of 90 days. we are opposed to any liberalization of the visa regime because of the migration crisis in europe at the moment. we also have doubts about the strengthening of cooperation on return and the proper implementation of border controls, which are necessary to limit the risks of this liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ where cooperation with certain third countries allows, a reciprocal short-stay visa exemption (usually mainly for tourism) is negotiated. the council, acting on behalf of the states, shall decide. the criteria observed are as much the political situation, respect for human rights, as the type of migration. in concrete terms, the absence of 'risk of irregular migration'. this is the kingdom of tonga, with 100,000 souls and as many coconut trees. i see no reason to oppose this tourism, but in a broader context it is also a matter of appeasing the country, with which the european union is currently negotiating a regional free trade agreement. however, i am in favour of the development of tourism and cultural exchanges as a key advantage for the development of this country.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens, but also for nationals of the kingdom of tonga, for a maximum of 90 days out of 180 days. as i am opposed to any liberalization of visas, in view of the migration crisis we are facing, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation and therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and the kingdom of tonga for stays of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. as long as there is reciprocity and the duration of the stay is limited, there are no difficulties in granting visa-free travel to nationals of a country outside the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mariya gabriel. the european parliament must give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, which has already been negotiated between the kingdom of tonga and the european commission. the proposal for an agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas aims at the conclusion of an agreement with the kingdom of tonga on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. the agreement takes account of the situation of member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the kingdom of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation and therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of tonga travelling to the territory of each other for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and for nationals of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of the kingdom of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any liberalization of visa regimes. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this agreement which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and colombian nationals who are travelling to one of the eu member states for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement follows the commission's report which noted a significant improvement in the economic and social situation in colombia. i believe that the reasons given do not justify granting visa liberalisation to colombians, especially at a time when the member states of the union are facing an unprecedented migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ we have managed to reach a comprehensive and balanced agreement with all the political groups on this text which will strengthen the social and cultural links between the european union and colombia. this agreement will open up opportunities for eu citizens, who will now be able to travel to the country without a visa.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for visa liberalisation between colombia and the european union. not only must we oppose liberalisation because of the current invasion of migration into european countries and the harmful logic behind it, but we must also ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to lift the visa requirement for colombian nationals who are visiting the territory of one or more member states for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. although the situation in colombia has improved in recent years, it is still far too fragile and the two scourges of drug trafficking and organized crime persist. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as the committee had recommended in the main.
in writing. ‒ while our old continent is experiencing an unprecedented migration crisis, the 'european' union is multiplying so-called 'visa liberalisation' agreements. "in light of the generally positive assessment" by the european commission that colombia has a "relatively stable regime", brussels bureaucrats have decided to exempt colombians from visas for "short stays" in europe. and these great democrats in the commission did not even wait for the european parliament to docilely validate their decision: this agreement on visa liberalisation entered into force the day after it was signed, on 2 december last, 'pending the approval of the european parliament'. the chairman of the foreign affairs committee said he was aware that "organised criminal groups . . . could take advantage of the abolition of the visa requirement, for example by increasing the use of drug and money smugglers". nevertheless, this first-class euro-globalist is not going to question this disastrous agreement, and the drug traffickers who thrive in this country of almost 50 million people will appreciate it.
in writing. ‒ once again, i opposed an agreement between the european union and a third country on the short-stay visa waiver. the commission has already reported on colombia in october 2014. in it, the commission justifies the liberalisation of visas for short stays for colombians in the european territory... because of the improved security in colombia! while i am glad that the country now enjoys a certain stability in this respect, this has nothing to do with the control that the eu can and must exercise over the flow of people within its borders. i also do not believe that strengthening cooperation on return and the implementation of proper border controls will be enough.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and colombian nationals who are travelling to the territory of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. i have nothing against the citizens of this country, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any liberalization of visas. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and of the republic of colombia who are travelling to one of the member states of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement follows the commission's report which noted a significant improvement in the economic and social situation in colombia. we believe that the reasons given do not justify granting visa liberalisation to colombians, especially at a time when the member states of the union are facing an unprecedented migration crisis. we know that the 'old continent' is extremely attractive, particularly in terms of social protection, and that it is attracting a considerable number of tourists to benefit from these social benefits. it would therefore be wise to combat social tourism instead of liberalizing their visas. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement will allow for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for nationals of colombia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. however, it was necessary that the agreement provide certain security guarantees. it therefore contains not only a declaration on the implementation of biometric passports, but also a commitment by both parties to cooperate in the fight against irregular migration.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and colombian nationals who are travelling to the territory of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in view of the current migration crisis, any visa liberalization would be irresponsible. however, the risks are considered to be 'significant' due to the enhanced cooperation on return and the implementation of border controls. in a report, the commission found that the security, economic and social situation in colombia had improved significantly in recent years. this justifies the fact that colombians can enter the territory of the eu countries without a visa. i voted against this text because i do not agree with this approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: we have nothing against the citizens of these countries, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the visa requirement for colombian nationals because i consider the migration and security risk from that country to be low. if criminal networks and cartels still exist, it will be difficult for them to enter the territory of the member states by air without being identified. i am much more concerned, however, about the decision to grant short-stay visa exemptions to countries in our immediate neighbourhood with high migration and security risks, such as ukraine, georgia and turkey. visa policy is not just a tool. it is also a political and geostrategic choice. however, it must take into account not only the effects on the third country concerned but also the impact on the member states.
in writing. ‒ these three agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for nationals of palau, tonga and colombia when they travel to the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. we have nothing against the citizens of these countries, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any liberalization of visas. i opposed all three of these texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of an agreement with the republic of colombia to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to any liberalization of visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for the benefit of colombian nationals who are travelling to the territory of the union for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. i have nothing against the citizens of this country, but given the scale of the migration crisis in europe and the security problem that it raises, i am opposed to any further liberalization of visas. the commission concluded that the security, economic and social situation in colombia had improved 'significantly' in recent years, justifying the granting of visa-free access to the territory of the member states to colombians. the risks of visa liberalisation were considered to be 'significant', despite the problem of organised crime and drug trafficking. we've all heard of such promises...
in writing. ‒ colombia was the subject of a commission report in october 2014 to assess the situation. the balance sheet was favourable to the state, noting the improvement in the security, economic and social situation in recent years. the text put to the vote is based on this finding to create an agreement with the country. the agreement provides for the establishment of a visa-free regime for travel between the two parties for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. however, despite promises of increased cooperation and border controls, visa liberalisation is a risk not to be taken in the current migration crisis. i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. these three texts provide for a visa-free regime for citizens of the union and for nationals of palau, tonga and colombia when they visit the territory of the member states of the union for a maximum period of 90 days. we are opposed to any liberalization of the visa system because of the migration crisis in europe at the moment. we also have doubts about the strengthening of cooperation on return and the proper implementation of border controls, which are necessary to limit the risks of this liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ where cooperation with certain third countries allows, a reciprocal short-stay visa exemption (usually mainly for tourism) is negotiated. the council, acting on behalf of the states, shall decide. the criteria observed are as much the political situation, respect for human rights, as the type of migration. in concrete terms, the absence of 'risk of irregular migration'. this is colombia, with which the union has signed specific free trade and readmission agreements. given that colombia is one of the only countries in latin america whose citizens do not have a short-stay visa exemption for travel to the union, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union, but also for nationals of the republic of colombia, for a maximum period of 90 days out of 180. as i am opposed to any liberalization of visa regimes, in view of the migration crisis we are facing, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any liberalization of visa regimes and therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and colombian nationals for stays of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. as long as there is reciprocity and the duration of the stay is limited, the exemption from the visa requirement for third country nationals does not raise any difficulties. i also support the inclusion in this report of a commitment to readmission at the request of one of the parties, in the event of an increase in irregular migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mariya gabriel. the european parliament must give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia, which has already been negotiated between the republic of colombia and the european commission. the purpose of the proposal is to conclude an agreement with the republic of colombia to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas. this agreement takes account of the situation of member states which do not yet apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the republic of colombia when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation and therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the agreement between the european union and colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and colombian nationals travelling to the territory of the other party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in addition, colombia is now concerned with the issuance of biometric passports for its nationals and a readmission agreement is planned in case of an increase in legal migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and colombian nationals who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and colombians who travel to the territory of the eu for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. given the scale of the migration crisis in europe, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ we voted for three agreements on the short-stay visa waiver for nationals of the republic of colombia, the republic of palau and the kingdom of tonga. the gue/ngl is in principle in favour of freedom of movement and visa liberalization, particularly for short stays. i would nevertheless like to stress that it is a pity that these visa exemptions are increasingly being used as a gift following the signing of the free trade agreement, or as a tool for blackmail. in the case of colombia, for example, these visa exemptions have come at a very opportune time to try to put a lid on the disastrous consequences of the recent entry into force of the free trade agreement with the european union. they also raise questions when the fight against organised crime is contrasted with the refusal of visa liberalisation in many countries geographically close to the eu. there are two sides to this issue, as there are in many others. given the current difficulties for colombian nationals to obtain these visas, i can only support this facilitation.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is an extension of the 1996 agreement on information technologies. it aims to remove customs duties on almost all information technology products by 2019. on 16 december, the wto ministerial conference was held in nairobi, during which wto members drew up a timetable for implementing the elimination of customs duties on 201 information technology products, whose trade is estimated at eur 1 300 billion a year. the new generation of semiconductors, gps navigation systems, machine tools used for the manufacture of printed circuit boards, telecommunications satellites and touchscreens are concerned. i opposed this agreement, which includes a section on the removal of non-tariff barriers. this free trade agreement, like the previous ones, will contribute to the unfair international competition that our companies face.
in writing. - we supported this recommendation. the expansion of information technology products is expected to boost the eu's manufacturing sector, which will allow easier access to new markets. it will have to continue to promote employment, lower consumer prices and stimulate economic growth, and foster innovation.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is an extension of the 1996 agreement on information technologies concluded under the auspices of the wto. in principle, the new agreement should bring customs duties down to zero on almost 200 products such as next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical products (magnetic resonance imaging equipment, machine tools used for the manufacture of printed circuit boards, telecommunications satellites, touch screens, etc.). with my colleagues from the national front we oppose these agreements which have the effect of weakening our nations in the face of competition from countries where shameful working conditions exist. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is an extension of the 1996 information technology agreement, following the wto ministerial conference in nairobi in december 2012, where wto members reached a landmark agreement to eliminate tariffs on 201 information technology products. the agreement also includes a commitment to work towards the elimination of non-tariff barriers in this sector and to keep the list of products covered open so that it can be extended in line with future technological developments. this type of extension of an existing agreement allows many products to be brought back into the free trade circuit, which is catastrophic for the french economy; i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itp). the agreement aims to extend the 1996 agreement on information technology and will remove virtually all customs duties on these products by 2019. apart from the great danger of this measure, which will lead to unbridled competition in our information technology industry (against giants such as china, taiwan and south korea), i would like to stress that once again this unbridled free trade programme was prepared by the large multinationals meeting in nairobi on 16 december. the wto director himself admitted that this agreement was historic. this will put at risk all our smes working in the field of gps navigation systems, imaging equipment and telecommunications satellites. once again, the big groups, with the complicity of our ruling elites, are agreeing to eliminate all measures to protect the interests of the people.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is an extension of the 1996 agreement on information technologies. under the agreement, by 2019, tariffs on almost all these products will be zero for the 82 participating countries. the wto director-general said: "this agreement is the first major tariff reduction agreement in the wto since 1996". it also includes a commitment to work towards the elimination of non-tariff barriers and to leave the list of products covered open for consideration in order to determine whether further enlargement will be necessary to take account of future technological developments. this new free trade agreement further increases the pressure of global competition in this sector, with the future consequence of large job losses in eu countries. it increases the dependence of our countries on those with low labour costs in this very strategic area. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to remove customs duties on almost all information technology products by 2019. on 16 december, the wto ministerial conference was held in nairobi, during which wto members drew up a timetable for implementing the elimination of customs duties on 201 information technology products, whose trade is estimated at eur 1 300 billion a year. the agreement covers next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, machine tools used in the manufacture of printed circuit boards, telecommunications satellites and touchscreens. i have of course opposed this agreement, which includes a section on the removal of non-tariff barriers. on the contrary, we should guard against the savage globalisation which has been responsible for the deindustrialisation of the western countries since the early 1980s. this free trade agreement, like the previous ones, will contribute to the unfair international competition that our companies face. this is why any removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers must be reciprocal and conditional on compliance with anti-dumping laws.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of an agreement in the form of a declaration on the expansion of trade in information technology products (itp). the agreement provides for the elimination of customs duties on more than 200 information technology products. it will lower prices for consumers, but also for producers who depend on imported components.
in writing. ‒ this report follows the historic agreement reached on 16 december 2015 at the world trade organisation in nairobi, which provides for the elimination of customs duties on more than 200 information technology products, such as gps navigation systems, medical products, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. i support the approval of this agreement, which will see all imports of communications technology products benefit from a total elimination of customs duties by 2019. this will provide a real stimulus to growth by promoting global trade and eu exports will benefit greatly.
in writing. ‒ on 16 december, at the wto ministerial conference in nairobi, wto members representing major exporters of information technology products agreed on a timetable for implementing a landmark agreement. the aim of the agreement is to eliminate customs duties on 201 information technology products, with an estimated $1.3 trillion in trade per year. the products covered by the agreement are next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical products such as magnetic resonance imaging equipment, machine tools used in the manufacture of printed circuit boards, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. the agreement also includes a commitment to work towards the elimination of non-tariff barriers, by allowing many products to be integrated into the free trade system in a non-transparent way. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this type of expansion of an existing agreement allows many products to enter the free trade circuit without any advertising!
in writing. ‒ the agreement includes a commitment to work towards the removal of non-tariff barriers in the information technology sector and to leave the list of products covered open for consideration to determine whether further enlargement will be necessary to take account of future technological developments. i can only take a position against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the elimination of customs duties on 201 information technology products, under a wto agreement between the european union and 24 countries. this agreement, the largest in the history of the wto in terms of tariff reductions, will allow european companies to be better protected from unfair competition and to earn between eur 5 and 8 billion from exports.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it endorses an agreement which abolishes customs duties on 201 it products.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the expansion of trade in information technology products. on 16 december, at the wto ministerial conference in nairobi, countries representing major exporters of information technology products agreed on a timetable for implementing a landmark agreement to eliminate tariffs on 201 information technology products, with an estimated $1.3 trillion in trade per year. the products covered by the agreement are next generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical products such as magnetic resonance imaging equipment, machine tools used for the manufacture of printed circuit boards, telecommunications satellites and touch screens, etc. the agreement also includes a commitment to work towards the elimination of non-tariff barriers in the information technology sector and to leave the list of products covered open for consideration in order to determine whether further enlargement will be necessary to take account of future technological developments. this type of expansion of an existing agreement therefore allows many products to be brought back into the free trade circuit.
in writing. ‒ the text focuses on the agreement currently being prepared, which aims to extend the 1996 agreement on information and communication technologies. under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto), the 82 participants (the united states, russia, japan, korea, china, the european union, etc.) entered into negotiations in 2012 with the aim of reducing tariffs on almost all information products to zero by 2019. the agreement covers 201 products (new generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical products with imaging equipment, etc.). this historic agreement will eventually remove non-tariff barriers to information technology, allowing major global producers such as asian countries to invade our markets without resistance or opposition. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the agreement on the expansion of trade in information technology products (ati-2), concluded within the wto on 16 december 2015, provides for the gradual elimination of customs duties on 201 information technology products. this includes computers, telephones, touch screens, gps navigation equipment, medical devices such as mri or ultrasonic scanning diagnostic devices, but also inputs, and other components and machines. trade in these products is valued at $1.3 trillion a year, or about 10% of world trade in goods. this agreement not only has a significant potential to stimulate growth but also to increase global trade in high-tech products. it also represents a significant market expansion opportunity for many european industrialists, particularly french ones. rapid ratification of the agreement will certainly send a positive signal and help to enhance the wto's responsiveness to adapting the regulation of world trade to the rapidly changing nature of information technology products. i therefore vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the agreement is an extension of the 1996 agreement on information technology. the negotiations aim to reduce customs duties to zero and involve 82 participants including the european union, the united states, japan, korea, taiwan, china, south-east asia, russia, etc. at the wto ministerial conference, wto members representing major exporters of information technology products agreed on a timetable for implementing a landmark agreement to eliminate tariffs on 201 information technology products, with an estimated $1.3 trillion in trade per year. we oppose this kind of expansion of an existing agreement which allows many products to enter the free trade circuit without any advertising.
in writing. ‒ the quisthoudt-rowohl report proposed that a multilateral agreement be concluded on trade in information technology products (itp), a sector in which the union and france are major players at world level. the aim is to phase out customs duties on 201 information technology products (computers, telephones, but also gps, mri devices, etc.), representing around 10% of world trade in goods. the agreement, which involves 82 countries, should be welcomed as an important step towards relaunching the multilateral system, which by definition has more safeguards than bilateral mega-trade agreements (ttip, ceta) or plurilateral ones (tisa). i have supported this multilateral agreement in particular because it addresses france's aggressive interests in trade in high value-added goods, while providing temporary protection for its sensitive technological products, such as electric meters, optical lenses or optical fibres. the challenge now is to make these new markets flourish, to the benefit of french and european workers and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (ita) was adopted at the singapore ministerial conference in december 1996 and entered into force in 1997. the agreement provides for each of the 21 participants to eliminate customs duties on all the information technology products covered. these include more than 200 products: computers, telephones, but also inputs, components and machines used in the manufacture of information technology products. the number of products concerned is now being extended to include next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, touch screens and even medical products such as magnetic resonance imaging diagnostic devices. the resolution before us approves this proposal. with this agreement, the european information technology industries will be subject to increased competition and employees to social dumping. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the agreement in question is an extension of the 1996 agreement on information technologies. by 2019, almost all of these products will be free of customs duties. the agreement also includes a commitment to work towards the elimination of non-tariff barriers in the information technology sector. finally, this type of expansion makes it possible to introduce many products into the free trade circuit without any advertising. i therefore voted against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly opposed to this type of expansion of an existing agreement, which allows many products to be inserted into the free trade circuit in a stealthy manner and without democratic debate.
in writing. ‒ this report is about the expansion of trade in information technology products and will help reduce tariffs on these products in the wto. the eu exports of products affected by this expansion amount to eur 189 billion. in a context where the european union is still too much affected by unemployment and where trade in information technology products is increasing, such a measure will create jobs. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly opposed to this type of expansion of an existing agreement, which allows many products to be inserted into the free trade circuit in a stealthy manner and without democratic debate. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of expanding trade in information technology products as part of the enlargement of the information technology agreement (ita) signed in december 2015 by 53 members of the world trade organisation (wto). the aim of the agreement is to reduce customs duties in this sector, which accounts for 10% of total world trade. the european parliament's decision is therefore part of a trend towards strengthening world trade by reducing customs barriers and constraints. above all, it will have a tangible effect on consumers, who will see the price of technological goods fall gradually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the agreement to extend the information technology agreement (ita). this agreement was concluded within the wto on 16 december at the wto ministerial conference in nairobi by 53 wto members (the ati now has 82 participating countries). the agreement will eliminate customs duties on 201 information technology products, whose trade is estimated at more than €1 trillion a year. annual trade in these products accounts for about 10% of total world trade. according to the agreement, approximately 65% of tariff lines will be completely eliminated by 1 july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will benefit from duty-free access. the products covered by the agreement include next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, telecommunications satellites and touchscreens. finally, it should be noted that the union has negotiated a phasing-out of the reductions over a longer period for certain products considered sensitive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to subject the psycho-stimulant alpha-pvp to control measures throughout the european union, given that 16 member states control it in accordance with their legislation and 5 member states use other legislative measures to control it. in fact, there are currently 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications directly linked to the consumption of this substance in eight member states. it is also accepted that alpha-pvp has no therapeutic value. the evidence on the risks of the use of this substance is sufficient to subject alpha-pvp to control measures throughout the european union in order to protect the public from the danger of this powerful psychostimulant and to avoid any obstacle to crossborder police and judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report: our main objective is to reduce the use of these substances.
in writing. ‒ alpha-pvp is a powerful and dangerous psychostimulant, which is reported to have caused 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications in eight member states. in both human and veterinary medicine, this substance has no recognised therapeutic value. several member states already control alpha-pvp. the extension of these controls to the whole of the union will have the effect of strengthening the protection of individuals against the risks related to its availability and consumption. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the control of alpha-pvp, a powerful psychostimulant. in fact, a total of 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications were recorded in eight member states where alpha-pvp was reported, figures which are all the more problematic as the substance in question has no established or recognised therapeutic value (either in human or veterinary medicine). it therefore appears necessary to subject that substance to control measures across the union in order to avoid the emergence of obstacles related to cross-border police and judicial cooperation and to protect individuals from the risks related to its availability and consumption.
in writing. - alpha-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant. in total, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings were recorded in eight member states where alpha-pvp was reported. alpha-pvp has no established or recognized therapeutic value (either in human or veterinary medicine). unfortunately, we have little scientific data on alpha-pvp, but the limited information we have on the risks of the substance is sufficient to subject alpha-pvp to control measures across the union. since 16 member states control alpha-pvp in accordance with their legislation and 5 member states use other legislative measures to control it, it is appropriate to subject this substance to control measures throughout the eu. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with control measures for alpha-pvp, a substance considered to be a potent and dangerous synthetic drug, responsible for many deaths in some member states. the aim of this agreement is to facilitate police and judicial cooperation and to protect the citizens of the union by establishing control measures for this psychoactive substance. for all these reasons, i voted for this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to subject alpha-pvp to control measures throughout the european union. as a reminder, alpha-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant, structurally related to other psychotropic substances such as cathinone or pyrovalerone, which are already subject to control measures under the 1971 un convention. in eight member states there are now 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications directly linked to the use of this substance. furthermore, it is commonly accepted that alpha-pvp has no therapeutic value. the evidence on the risks associated with the use of this substance is sufficient to subject alpha-pvp to control measures throughout the european union. this will, on the one hand, protect the population from the dangers of this psychostimulant and, on the other hand, avoid the emergence of any obstacles to crossborder police and judicial cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the control of alpha-pvp because of the dangers of this new psychoactive substance and to avoid many cases of poisoning and even deaths.
in writing. ‒ alpha-pvp is a potent psychostimulant structurally related to cathinone, pyrovalerone and methylene dioxypyrovalerone (mdpv). these substances are controlled under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. in total, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings were recorded in eight member states where alpha-pvp was reported. alpha-pvp has no established or recognized therapeutic value (human or veterinary). the information and evidence concerning the health risks are sufficient grounds for subjecting alpha-pvp to control measures throughout the union. this would protect people from the risks associated with its availability and consumption. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: to subject alpha-pvp to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ alpha-pvp is a new substance, considered a potent psychostimulant, with no established or recognised therapeutic value. today, 21 member states have introduced control measures against this drug, which is believed to be the cause of several deaths. since this substance is already controlled in most member states, the establishment of control measures at union level could strengthen cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks related to its availability and consumption.
in writing. ‒ given that 16 member states control alpha-pvp in accordance with their legislation and that 5 member states use other legislative measures to control it, subjecting this substance to control measures across the union would avoid the emergence of obstacles to cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks related to its availability and consumption. i am of course in favour of this, so i voted for the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to subject the new psychoactive substance alpha-pvp to control measures because of its high toxicity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is about putting alpha-pvp, a psychostimulant which has caused serious intoxications, under control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the subjecting of alpha-pvp to control measures. alpha-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant. so far, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings have been recorded in the eight member states where alpha-pvp has been reported. alpha-pvp has no established or recognized therapeutic value in human or veterinary medicine. since 16 member states control alpha-pvp in accordance with their legislation and 5 member states use other legislative measures to control it, subjecting this substance to control measures across the union would avoid the emergence of obstacles to cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks related to its consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text. it proposes to establish a control of the potent psychostimulant alpha-pvp at eu level. this psychotropic substance has been controlled since the 1971 un convention. in addition, currently 16 eu countries have included this control in their legislation and 5 others have established legislative measures. alpha-pvp has adverse health effects (acute intoxications which may lead to death) and has no recognised therapeutic value in the medical or veterinary sectors. the eu-wide control of cannabis promotes cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protects european citizens from its consumption.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the introduction of control measures across the union for alpha-pvp, a potent psychostimulant that has caused 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications, would avoid the emergence of obstacles to cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks related to its availability and consumption. it should be noted that 16 member states already control alpha-pvp in accordance with their national law and that 5 member states use other measures to control it.
in writing. ‒ new psychoactive substances (nps) are proliferating at a considerable rate on the european market, making their control increasingly difficult. alpha-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant made in china. this substance appeared as a synthetic drug from the 2010s under the name flakka. it is cheap and highly toxic and has been detected in all 28 member states as well as in turkey and norway. in total, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings have been recorded in connection with this substance. the report calls on the member states to take the necessary measures to subject this substance to the control measures and criminal sanctions provided for in their legislation, in accordance with their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. in view of the risks to public health, i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ despite the limited scientific data on alpha-pvp, the evidence and information on the health risks of the substance are sufficient grounds for subjecting alpha-pvp to control measures across the eu. this harmonisation at european level would avoid the emergence of obstacles to crossborder police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks associated with its availability and consumption. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ given that 16 member states control alpha-pvp in accordance with their legislation and that 5 member states use other legislative measures to control it, subjecting this substance to control measures across the union would avoid the emergence of obstacles to cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks related to its availability and consumption. i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which provides for the subjecting of the pvp alpha to control measures. this substance is a powerful psychostimulant with no therapeutic value and is already controlled in 21 member states. the report aims to extend the control measures to the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ given that 16 member states control alpha-pvp in accordance with their legislation and that five member states use other legislative measures to control it, subjecting this substance to control measures across the union would avoid the emergence of obstacles to cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks related to its availability and consumption. i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ alpha-pvp is a strong psychostimulant and has no established or recognised therapeutic value at present. as it is controlled in 21 member states of the european union, i voted in favour of extending control of this substance to all member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the new psychoactive substance alpha-pvp to be subject to control measures throughout the union. alpha-pvp is a potent psychostimulant structurally related to substances that are subject to control measures under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. this product has been shown, on many occasions, to be hazardous to health. despite the limited scientific data on this substance, the evidence and information on the health risks of this substance are sufficient grounds for subjecting alpha-pvp to control measures across the union. the protection of the health of the citizens of the union is of paramount importance. finally, with 21 member states having already adopted legislation on alpha-pvp, legal harmonisation is urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ alpha-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant structurally related to cathinone, pyrovalerone and methylene dioxypyrovalerone (mdpv), which are controlled under the 1971 un convention on psychotropic substances. in total, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings were recorded in eight member states where alpha-pvp was reported. alpha-pvp has no established or recognized therapeutic value (either in human or veterinary medicine). despite the limited scientific data on alpha-pvp, the evidence and information on the health risks of the substance are sufficient grounds for subjecting alpha-pvp to control measures across the union. since 16 member states control alpha-pvp in accordance with their legislation and 5 member states use other legislative measures to control it, subjecting this substance to control measures across the union would avoid the emergence of obstacles to cross-border police and judicial cooperation and protect individuals from the risks related to its availability and consumption. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, with the exception of aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the convention establishes the liability of the owner of a vessel carrying harmful substances in the event of damage resulting from an accident at sea. it provides for limited exceptions to this liability, which is accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance. finally, it established a specific fund to cover the full amount of loss and damage suffered by an individual who could not have been fully compensated by the owner of the vessel or by his insurer. i believe that a global approach is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to send a strong signal to the council. we want the protocol ratified quickly. however, the council should reconsider its position in order to avoid creating legal uncertainty within the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the 1996 hns convention drawn up under the auspices of the international maritime organisation, the 2010 protocol amending it and the 2010 hns convention consolidating the two texts mentioned above. the convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances for damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport, provides for limited exceptions to this liability, which is accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance or other financial security to cover his liability for damage covered by the convention, establishes a specific compensation fund to compensate any person who has suffered damage in connection with the carriage of harmful substances by sea where the owner of the ship concerned or his insurer is not liable for the amount of the reparations. the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents, an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress in the event of accidents caused by vessels carrying harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea throughout the union. it will also ensure that sufficient funds are available for compensation to victims of such accidents.
in writing. ‒ this convention, which amends the 1996 hns report, establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances in the event of damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport. it combines this responsibility with the obligation to take out insurance or other guarantees in the event of a disaster and establishes a specific compensation fund for damage related to the transport of harmful substances by sea. the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability for such accidents, an international regime is best suited to the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. in fact, given the global nature of the maritime freight business, a global approach is preferable. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo), the 1996 hns convention was amended by the 2010 protocol (the 'protocol'), which were consolidated by a new text, the 2010 hns convention (the 'convention'), which is not open for signature or ratification. the convention shall take effect when the protocol enters into force in the member states. for example, the convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances for damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport, provides for limited exceptions and establishes a specific compensation fund. given the global nature and the specificities of maritime zones, an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents, an international regime is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specific characteristics of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, with the exception of aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the convention establishes the liability of the owner of a vessel carrying harmful substances in the event of damage resulting from an accident at sea. it provides for limited exceptions to this liability, which is accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance. finally, it established a specific fund to cover the full amount of loss and damage suffered by an individual who could not have been fully compensated by the owner of the vessel or by his insurer. i believe that a global approach is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. i supported this first position concerning the ratification by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, and the accession of the member states to that protocol, with the exception of the aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. we will continue to insist that an international regime is better suited than regional solutions because of the global nature of the maritime sector.
in writing. ‒ under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo), the 1996 hns (hazardous and noxious substances) convention was amended by the 2010 protocol. in the event of damage resulting from an incident during the transport of harmful or potentially dangerous substances, the convention establishes the objective liability of the ship owner, with limited exceptions accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance. the agreement also establishes a compensation fund for those who have not been able to obtain satisfactory reparation for the damage. i supported this text, which says that the uniform application of international rules on liability and compensation for such accidents is better suited than regional solutions.
in writing. - i voted for this text. given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specific characteristics of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these two interim reports on the ratification and accession of the union to a protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this international convention because it deprives the union of any room for manoeuvre in the field of maritime freight transport, which requires a global approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted for ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances and for accession to that protocol. the convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances in the event of damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport. it provides for limited exceptions to this liability, which is accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance or other financial guarantee to cover one's liability in the event of damage. it establishes a specific compensation fund to compensate any person who has suffered damage in connection with the carriage of harmful and potentially dangerous substances by sea where he has been unable to obtain full and adequate compensation for the damage from the ship owner and his insurer. the report rightly considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents, an international regime is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ this 1996 international convention was drawn up under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo) and amended in 2010. the aim of this new text is to create an international regime for responding effectively to accidents and determining liability and compensation for damage caused. for example, it establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or dangerous substances, it provides for an obligation to take out insurance or financial guarantee to cover his liability, and it creates a specific compensation fund for victims. i welcome the consistency of this report, which is different from european legislation. an international regime is indeed more coherent and adapted to the global nature of the maritime sector. i voted for this text.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances in the event of damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport. it provides for limited exceptions to this liability and establishes a specific compensation fund. given the international nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime zones, a global approach is preferable to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents. the rapporteur wishes to enter into a dialogue with the council and the commission with a view to building a coherent european policy in this area.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on hazardous and noxious substances (hns convention) aims to ensure accountability and compensation for damage caused by the carriage of such substances by sea. according to this convention, the owner of the ship carrying the substances is liable. the agreement also creates a compensation fund, comprising approximately eur 310 million. the report proposes that the convention be ratified within two years. it also proposes accession to its protocol, but makes an exception for aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the report also calls for preventive measures to be taken to avoid or reduce such damage (preventive measures, primary and secondary repair). i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable to a regional approach. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with accession to a protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. this is a report which analyses the legal basis which the european union could use if it decided to accede to the protocol.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable to a regional approach. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this interim report on a draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the european union to a protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents, an international regime is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. this legal framework should apply throughout the union, which will therefore have a homogeneous legal regime concerning this specific responsibility. the rapporteur nevertheless wishes to enter into a dialogue with the council and the commission with a view to building a coherent european policy in this area. given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specific characteristics of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the convention establishes the liability of the owner of a vessel carrying harmful substances in the event of damage resulting from an accident at sea. it provides for limited exceptions to this liability, which is accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance. finally, it established a specific fund to cover the full amount of loss and damage suffered by an individual who could not have been fully compensated by the owner of the vessel or by his insurer. i believe that a global approach is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to send a strong signal to the council. we want the protocol ratified quickly. however, the council should reconsider its position in order to avoid creating further legal uncertainty within the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for accidents in the transport of harmful or potentially dangerous substances, an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions, given the global nature of the activity of maritime freight transport. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this convention, which amends the 1996 hns report, establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances in the event of damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport. it combines this responsibility with the obligation to take out insurance or other guarantees in the event of a disaster and establishes a specific compensation fund for damage related to the transport of harmful substances by sea. the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability for such accidents, an international regime is the most appropriate, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. in fact, given the global nature of the maritime freight business, a global approach is preferable. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns ratification, including the aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo), the 1996 hns convention was amended by the 2010 protocol (the 'protocol'), which were consolidated by a new text, the 2010 hns convention (the 'convention'), which is not open for signature or ratification. the convention shall take effect when the protocol enters into force in the member states. for example, the convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances for damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport, provides for limited exceptions and establishes a specific compensation fund. given the global nature and the specificities of maritime zones, an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents, an international regime is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specific characteristics of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. so i voted for it.
in writing. i have supported these guidelines to continue negotiations on the ratification by member states, in the interest of the european union, of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea, and on the accession of member states to the protocol, as regards the aspects of judicial cooperation in civil matters. the exception to the general application of the recast of the brussels i regulation is justified in order to avoid legal difficulties.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, as regards aspects related to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the convention establishes the liability of the owner of a vessel carrying harmful substances in the event of damage resulting from an accident at sea. it provides for limited exceptions to this liability, which is accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance. finally, it established a specific fund to cover the full amount of loss and damage suffered by an individual who could not have been fully compensated by the owner of the vessel or by his insurer. i believe that a global approach is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo), the 1996 hns (hazardous and noxious substances) convention was amended by the 2010 protocol. in the event of damage resulting from an incident during the transport of harmful or potentially dangerous substances, the convention establishes the objective liability of the ship owner, with limited exceptions accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance. the agreement also establishes a compensation fund for those who have not been able to obtain satisfactory reparation for the damage. i supported this text, which says that the uniform application of international rules on liability and compensation for such accidents is better suited than regional solutions.
in writing. - i voted yes. given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specific characteristics of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these two interim reports on the ratification and accession of the union to a protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this international convention because it deprives the union of any room for manoeuvre in the field of maritime freight transport, which requires a global approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying and acceding to the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances, as regards aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the convention establishes the objective liability of the owner of a ship carrying harmful or potentially dangerous substances in the event of damage resulting from an incident at sea during such transport. it provides for limited exceptions to this liability, which is accompanied by the obligation to take out insurance or other financial guarantee to cover one's liability in the event of damage. it establishes a specific compensation fund to compensate any person who has suffered damage in connection with the carriage of harmful and potentially dangerous substances by sea where he has been unable to obtain full and adequate compensation for the damage from the ship owner and his insurer. the report rightly considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents, an international regime is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ the report is aimed at authorising the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on hazardous and noxious substances. this is the part concerning aspects relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters. the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of accidents caused by ships carrying such substances at sea throughout the union. it will also ensure that sufficient funds are available for compensation to victims of such accidents. the report calls for a dialogue with the council and the commission with a view to building a coherent european policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage resulting from the transport of harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime zones, a global approach is preferable to a regional one. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with accession to a protocol, as regards the provisions on judicial cooperation in civil matters, to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. this is a report which analyses the legal basis which the european union could use if it decided to accede to the protocol.
in writing. ‒ given the global nature of the maritime freight transport activity and the specificity of maritime zones, a global approach is preferable to a regional one. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this interim report on a draft council decision on the ratification and accession of the european union to a protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress for such accidents, an international regime is better suited than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications. this legal framework should apply throughout the union, which will therefore have a homogeneous legal regime concerning this specific responsibility. the rapporteur nevertheless wishes to enter into a dialogue with the council and the commission with a view to building a coherent european policy in this area. given the global nature of the maritime freight activity and the specificity of maritime areas, a global approach is preferable. moreover, it has the merit of removing this issue from the union's legislative arsenal. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. the rapporteur is quite realistic in his description of the situation in the philippines, but we do not welcome the comments on the tensions in the china sea and the maritime clashes in asia. i therefore voted against this text because, let us remember, foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the european union does not have to pretend to an international role, however minimal it may be.
in writing. - i supported that recommendation. this is an important step for a major partner in the region for the eu. our s&d group has insisted in this text on social and environmental rights and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade.
in writing. ‒ this text updates the agreements between the eu and the philippines. while the descriptive part of the report is fairly accurate regarding the situation in the philippines, the comments regarding the situation in the china sea and the ongoing clashes in asia are not relevant. it should also be remembered that foreign policy must remain the exclusive responsibility of the states. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject matter.
in writing. ‒ this text is an update of the agreements between the eu and the philippines; while the descriptive part of the report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and the ongoing maritime clashes in asia are completely irrelevant. moreover, it should be recalled in connection with this report and similar initiatives by the commission that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the member states and that the eu should not assume any international role, however minimal. i voted against this abusive claim by brussels.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns an eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu and is a simple update of the eu-philippines agreements. while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous to us. the eu does not have to claim an international role as it is trying to do, however, since foreign policy is still entirely a matter for the states alone. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous. i would like to remind you that foreign policy is the exclusive domain of the states and that the eu should not claim to have any international role, however small. i therefore voted against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. the rapporteur is quite realistic in his description of the situation in the philippines, but we do not welcome the comments on the tensions in the china sea and the maritime clashes in asia. as a sovereign state, the republic of the philippines is not required to meet the requirements of the union for compliance with international conventions. it should also be recalled that foreign policy is the exclusive competence of the member states and that the european union cannot claim to have an international role. as usual, the union wishes to give itself prerogatives which are not its own. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines. this protocol incorporates croatia as a contracting party to the framework agreement, given that the framework agreement was signed in 2012, when croatia had not yet acceded to the european union.
in writing. the text to be voted on is an update of the agreements between the eu and the philippines. while the descriptive part of the background report is realistic about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the context in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia are not serious. since foreign policy is a matter for the states and the european union should not pretend to play an international role in this area, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim to play any international role, however minimal.
in writing. ‒ it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i naturally voted against all three of these texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union concerning the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the union and the republic of the philippines.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it approves the accession of croatia to the eu-philippines agreement. however, i do not think that the eu should have an international role.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. it is an update of the cooperation agreement between the european union and the philippines. although the text is clear on the situation in the philippines, it is lost in comments on the conflicts in the china sea that distract from its primary objective. the correction in this report is intended to include croatia, which joined the eu after the text was signed. the eu should not replace the member states in international policy.
in writing. - i voted against all three reports. we strongly disagree with the way the situation in the china sea, and more generally the way maritime confrontations in asia are described. foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states. we oppose any attempt by the eu to play an international role, even a minor one.
in writing. ‒ negotiations for a regional free trade agreement between the eu and asean (association of southeast asian nations) have stalled. the eu is therefore seeking to push for bilateral agreements with countries in the region in the face of north americans making good progress on their regional counterpart, the trans-pacific partnership. the agreement with the philippines is therefore the way to enter this race. it contains, of course, interesting information on the implementation of ilo conventions, the fight against terrorism and support for the peace process in southern mindanao. but above all, it is a means of opening negotiations for a future free trade agreement, already favoured by the preferential treatment granted to the country for its exports of certain key products such as textiles. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this text is an update of the eu-philippines agreement. while the descriptive part of the report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem out of place. it should also be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim any international role, however minimal. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks parliament's approval of croatia's accession to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines. as croatia joined the european union only on 1 july 2013, it was not included in the draft framework agreement, although as a member state it has its full place in it. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's participation in the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines, which is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the union in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which allows croatia to be taken into account as a contracting party to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. parliament accompanied this approval by a non-legislative resolution detailing its recommendations. the eu and the philippines should strengthen their partnership, particularly in the fields of the fight against poverty, terrorism, human rights and trade relations. negotiations for a free trade agreement between the two parties, including croatia, have been launched since december 2015.
in writing. ‒ these texts are updates of the eu-philippines agreements. while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous to us. it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim any international role, however minimal. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. the rapporteur is quite realistic in his description of the situation in the philippines, but we do not welcome the comments on the tensions in the china sea and the maritime clashes in asia. i therefore voted against this text because, let us remember, foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the european union should not claim to have an international role, however minimal.
in writing. - i supported that recommendation. this is an important step for a major partner in the region for the eu. our s&d group has emphasized social and environmental rights and provisions to ensure fair trade in this text.
in writing. ‒ this text updates the agreements between the eu and the philippines. while the descriptive part of the report is fairly accurate regarding the situation in the philippines, the comments regarding the situation in the china sea and the ongoing clashes in asia are not relevant. it should also be remembered that foreign policy must remain the exclusive responsibility of the states. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, as the commission had basically recommended.
in writing. ‒ this text is an update of the agreements between the eu and the philippines; while the descriptive part of the report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia are completely irrelevant. moreover, it should be recalled in connection with this report and similar initiatives by the commission that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the member states and that the eu should not assume any international role, however minimal. i voted against this abusive claim by brussels.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns an eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation for approval and is a mere update of the eu-philippines agreements. while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous to us. the eu does not have to claim an international role as it is trying to do, since foreign policy is still entirely a matter for the states alone. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous. i would like to remind you that foreign policy is the exclusive domain of the states and that the eu should not claim to have any international role, however small. i therefore voted against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. the rapporteur is quite realistic in his description of the situation in the philippines, but we do not welcome the comments on the tensions in the china sea and the maritime clashes in asia. as a sovereign state, the republic of the philippines is not required to meet the requirements of the union for compliance with international conventions. it should also be recalled that foreign policy is the exclusive competence of the member states and that the european union cannot claim to have an international role. as usual, the union wishes to give itself prerogatives which are not its own. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the report on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines, which includes provisions on human rights and the fight against terrorism. it also strengthens cooperation in areas such as migration, the fight against terrorist financing, the fight against organised crime and corruption.
in writing. ‒ the text to be voted on is an update of the agreements between the eu and the philippines. while the descriptive part of the background report is realistic about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the context in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia are not serious. since foreign policy is a matter for the states and the european union should not pretend to play an international role in this area, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim to play any international role, however minimal.
in writing. ‒ it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i naturally voted against all three of these texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the republic of the philippines. the agreement contains provisions on human rights, the fight against terrorism and cooperation with the international criminal court.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it approves an agreement between the eu and the philippines. however, i do not think that the eu should have an international role.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation because i believe that the european union simply does not have to play an international role. it is up to the nations to conclude international agreements and conduct foreign policy, not the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is an update of the cooperation agreement between the european union and the philippines. although the text is clear on the situation in the philippines, it is lost in clumsy comments on the conflicts in the china sea that distract from its primary objective. moreover, i believe that the eu does not have to take the place of the member states in international policy. i am fundamentally opposed to this text and i am voting against.
in writing. - i voted against all three reports. we strongly disagree with the way the situation in the china sea, and more generally the way maritime confrontations in asia are described. foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states. we oppose any attempt by the eu to play an international role, even a minor one.
in writing. ‒ this parliament resolution takes a position on the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement. it has the merit of highlighting the violations of human rights by military and paramilitary units of the regime. it stresses the need to respect the human rights conventions, in particular those on trafficking in human beings. it declares its unwavering support for the peace process in southern mindanao. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers from harmful exposure to carcinogens are respected. but these demands are wishful thinking when, at the same time, parliament is calling for a free trade agreement which will only exacerbate the social dumping and the deterioration of living conditions which are the breeding ground for local terrorism in mindanao. the text also enters the arms race supported by the united states in the face of the conflict in the china sea. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this text is an update of the eu-philippines agreement. while the descriptive part of the report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem out of place. it should also be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim any international role, however minimal. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the republic of the philippines. this framework agreement is based on a draft agreement from 2010 and parliament gave its reasons for this agreement during this june 2016 plenary session in a non-legislative resolution which i voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) signed between the european union and the republic of the philippines, which strengthens the relationship between the 28 member states and the asian state in many areas of action: transport, energy, environment, tourism, but also the fight against terrorism and organised crime. the conclusion of this agreement is therefore fully in line with a coherent overall political and economic framework for relations between the union and the countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament's approval to the conclusion of a framework partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the philippines. parliament accompanied this approval by a non-legislative resolution detailing its recommendations. the eu and the philippines should strengthen their partnership, particularly in the fields of combating poverty and terrorism, human rights and trade relations. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the sampled exporting producers.
in writing. ‒ these texts are updates of the eu-philippines agreements. while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous to us. it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim any international role, however minimal. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. the rapporteur is quite realistic in his description of the situation in the philippines, but we do not welcome the comments on the tensions in the china sea and the maritime clashes in asia. i therefore voted against this text because, let us remember, foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the european union should not claim to have an international role, however minimal.
in writing. - i supported this report. this is an important step for a major partner in the region for the eu. our group, the s&ds, insisted in this text on social and environmental rights and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade.
in writing. ‒ this text updates the agreements between the eu and the philippines. while the descriptive part of the report is fairly accurate regarding the situation in the philippines, the comments regarding the situation in the china sea and the ongoing clashes in asia are not relevant. it should also be remembered that foreign policy must remain the exclusive responsibility of the states. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, as the committee had recommended in the main.
in writing. ‒ this text is an update of the agreements between the eu and the philippines; while the descriptive part of the report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and the ongoing maritime clashes in asia are completely irrelevant. moreover, it should be recalled in connection with this report and similar initiatives by the commission that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the member states and that the eu should not assume any international role, however minimal. i voted against this abusive claim by brussels.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation which is merely an update of the eu-philippines agreements. while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous to us. the eu does not have to claim an international role as it is trying to do, since foreign policy is still entirely a matter for the states alone. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous. i would like to remind you that foreign policy is the exclusive domain of the states and that the eu should not claim to have any international role, however small. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. the rapporteur is quite realistic in his description of the situation in the philippines, but we do not welcome the comments on the tensions in the china sea and the maritime clashes in asia. as a sovereign state, the republic of the philippines is not required to meet the requirements of the union for compliance with international conventions. it should also be recalled that foreign policy is the exclusive competence of the member states and that the european union cannot claim to have an international role. as usual, the union wishes to give itself prerogatives which are not its own. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the republic of the philippines. i support the participation of the republic of the philippines in the international coalition against terrorism since 2001 and the strengthening of the capacity of its government in the international fight against terrorism and extremism.
in writing. ‒ the text to be voted on is an update of the agreements between the eu and the philippines. while the descriptive part of the background report is realistic about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the context in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia are not serious. since foreign policy is a matter for the states and the european union should not pretend to play an international role in this area, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim to play any international role, however minimal.
in writing. ‒ it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i naturally voted against all three of these texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in which parliament welcomes the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines and considers that the european union should continue to provide financial support and development aid to the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it approves an agreement between the eu and the philippines. however, i do not think that the eu should have an international role.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. firstly, i believe that the european union simply does not have to play an international role. it is up to the nations to conclude international agreements and conduct foreign policy, not the european union. in addition, the text shows a desire to interfere, under the guise of ecology, in the affairs of a sovereign state.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is an update of the cooperation agreement between the european union and the philippines. although the text is clear on the situation in the philippines, it is lost in clumsy comments on the conflicts in the china sea that distract from its primary objective. the eu should not replace the member states in international policy.
in writing. - i voted against all three reports. we strongly disagree with the way the situation in the china sea, and more generally the way maritime confrontations in asia are described. foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states. we oppose any attempt by the eu to play an international role, even a minor one.
in writing. ‒ this is to add croatia as a party to the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement signed before its accession to the eu. i am opposed to this agreement which is intended to promote an eu-asean free trade agreement. what i do not wish for us, i do not wish for any of the last to join the eu, even though i was opposed to this integration without popular consultation. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this text is an update of the eu-philippines agreement. while the descriptive part of the report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem out of place. it should also be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim any international role, however minimal. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out to parliament the reasons why the european union is about to conclude a partnership and cooperation agreement with the republic of the philippines. the state, which has ratified eight of the nine major human rights conventions, is suffering from the presence of terrorists on its territory. the european union must continue to help this country, which has been participating in the international coalition against terrorism since 2001. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and the eu should not claim to have an international role, however minimal. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of the support provided by the european union to the republic of the philippines, in the framework of the framework partnership agreement between the two groups. many areas of cooperation are already successful and deserve to be strengthened, from the promotion of human rights and the rule of law to strengthening the capacity of the philippine government in the fight against terrorism, and increasing academic exchanges to promote cultural exchange between our continent and this southeast asian country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which welcomes the conclusion of a framework partnership agreement between the eu and the philippines. the text calls on the union to continue to provide financial support and development aid to the philippines, in particular to combat poverty. the eu-philippines cooperation needs to be strengthened in areas such as the fight against terrorism, trafficking in human beings and the regional context of tensions in the south china sea. the union and the philippines enjoy privileged relations, particularly in the commercial field. the union is the philippines' fourth largest trading partner and its fourth largest export market. as such, the report calls on the philippines, as a gsp+ country, to ensure the effective implementation of all major international conventions on fundamental rights, labour law, the environment and good governance. finally, i supported this resolution because it recalls that this partnership agreement is part of a time of strengthening trade relations. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the sampled exporting producers.
in writing. ‒ these texts are updates of the eu-philippines agreements. while the descriptive part of the background report is honest about the situation in the philippines, the comments on the situation in the china sea and on the ongoing maritime clashes in asia seem ridiculous to us. it should be remembered that foreign policy is the exclusive concern of the states and that the eu should not claim any international role, however minimal. i vote against.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. tunisia is currently experiencing severe financial difficulties following numerous terrorist attacks and growing internal unrest due to instability in libya. in this context, tunisia is again seeking assistance from the european union, after obtaining a loan of €300 million in 2013. this time, the report aims to release €500 million in return for the implementation of the imf programme and structural reforms in the labour market and social security. while we consider it important to provide financial assistance to tunisia in order to stabilise the region, the implementation of the draconian structural reforms which the union is demanding in return for the granting of the loan is a real interference in tunisian politics, which could destabilise the country even further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the release of emergency macro-financial assistance (mfa) of eur 500 million to tunisia. the tunisian economy is in serious trouble: unemployment, especially among young people, is at an all-time high and regional inequalities are growing dangerously. the economic challenges facing tunisia have been significantly exacerbated by terrorist attacks targeting the tourism and transport sectors. but the amf is only a loan, which tunisia will have to repay. the european union must look beyond this. in conjunction with the international community, it must work to reduce tunisia's debt and unblock the process of repatriating assets embezzled by the ben ali regime - in this case partly held in european banks. otherwise, this new amf will not serve its purpose.
in writing. ‒ in april 2013, the imf released a loan of usd 1.75 billion for tunisia for an initial period of 24 months, which has since been extended. in the same year, the eu granted a loan of €300 million to be disbursed in instalments until 2016. however, tunisia continues to face significant economic and financial difficulties, due in particular to attacks on its soil and the war in libya. the government is therefore seeking a new loan of eur 500 million from the european union for 15 years and a new agreement with the imf for a period of four years. the loan will be released in accordance with the implementation of the programme with the imf and structural reforms requested by the european commission (budgetary, social, trade, etc.). it should be noted that these loans are conditional on respect for democracy. i voted against the commission's proposal, which is an interference in the politics of tunisia. i abstained on the european parliament's motion for a resolution, which has the merit of having a more flexible approach to structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, the fruit of a long work by my colleague marielle de sarnez. the objective of this report is to support tunisia's democratic transition by providing macro-financial assistance in the form of a loan which tunisia will have to repay, even if its debt continues to increase. the european commission is invited to start thinking along the lines of france and germany, which have decided to convert part of tunisia's debt into investment in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks that left their mark on the minds of many, tunisia is suffering more than ever from instability in libya, growing internal unrest, a 15% unemployment rate and a significant drop in tourism (the sector accounts for 7% of gdp). by mid-april 2013, both the imf and the eu had already released funds. tunisia is requesting a new loan of eur 500 million from the eu. the loans are conditional on compliance with the structural reforms advocated by the imf and the eu. while it is indeed important for the whole region, which is already suffering, that tunisia not be destabilised, reforms and various interventions could just destabilise this fragile country a little more. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report and abstained. i voted against the commission's proposal: let us not further weaken the precarious balance that tunisia has achieved and let us finally work towards healthy cooperation rather than being put under tutelage.
in writing. ‒ europe is involved in everything and wants to intervene everywhere in the name of its sacrosanct 'common values' or 'shared values'. the report calls for support for tunisia's development and economy by providing an additional €500 million in aid. since 2011, the union has expressed its unequivocal commitment to support the country in its process of political and economic reforms. it has increased its financial assistance and multiplied the aid from the eib or the loans from the imf, totalling more than €2 billion over five years. but this is not enough, and the tunisians have understood this well: the generosity of the europeans is without limits. i wonder. are we doing so well in europe that we should be worried about a country that is in the midst of renewing its institutions and governing bodies since the ousting of president ben ali in january 2011? eurostat estimates that in march 2016, 21.419 billion men and women were unemployed in the 28 eu countries, including 16.437 billion in the euro area. what about the eu's common values? the defence of democratic values has a price, we are answered here...
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks and economic problems in tunisia, the imf had unlocked a loan of $1.75 billion in 2013 and the eu a loan of €300 million from 2013 to 2016. here, tunisia is seeking a new loan of €500 million over 15 years and another agreement with the imf. the loan will be released in accordance with the implementation of the programme with the imf and the structural reforms requested by the european commission. in addition, it should be noted that tunisia is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the eu. the eu's structural reforms imposed on tunisia risk further destabilising the country, but it is important that this country in serious financial and political difficulty is not left behind. so i decided to abstain.
‒ following the terrorist attacks, tunisia's growth slowed down (still 3% in 2015). it suffers from instability in libya, growing internal unrest, an unemployment rate of 15%, a drop in tourism (the sector accounts for 7% of gdp), strikes... i am therefore in favour of granting aid in the form of a loan, but the draconian conditions imposed by the commission on this facility are likely to destabilise this still very fragile country. i therefore voted against the commission's proposal and abstained on the motion for a resolution because it is much less severe than the commission's.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is currently experiencing severe financial difficulties, largely related to the fall in tourism activity since the 2015 attacks. the tunisian government is also facing growing internal unrest, notably due to instability in libya. in this context, tunisia is once again seeking assistance from the european union, after obtaining a loan of €300 million in 2013. this time, the report aims to release €500 million in return for the implementation of the imf programme and structural reforms in the labour market and social security. we consider it important to provide financial assistance to tunisia in order to stabilise the region, which is facing an islamist threat. however, the implementation of the structural reforms which the union is demanding in return for the granting of the loan could have the opposite effect. these draconian conditions not only interfere with tunisia's internal politics, but are also likely to increase poverty and social inequalities, as in greece and portugal. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has undergone a rather remarkable democratic transition in recent years. however, many challenges remain. the country is experiencing major economic difficulties. terrorist attacks and attacks on the territory and the regional geopolitical situation have a disastrous effect on the country's main economic activity, tourism. the european union must help tunisia to continue its democratic transition. the decision by the council and the european parliament to provide additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia will allow the union to grant a loan of eur 500 million to the country. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting €500 million of eu macro-financial assistance to tunisia. it seems to me absolutely essential that the european union should support tunisia in its process of consolidating democratic mechanisms and stabilising its economy, at a time when tunisia has also been struck by the scourge of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sarnez report on macro-financial assistance to tunisia, which aims to provide that country with aid of up to eur 500 million in the form of medium-term loans, allocated on favourable financial terms. this assistance complements the other grants already granted to tunisia by the european union since 2011, which amount to over eur 1 billion. this new aid will be paid out in three instalments over the duration of the programme. the aim of this macrofinancial assistance is to facilitate the reforms necessary for the country's economic integration and regulatory convergence with the european union. i supported this report because the partnership with tunisia is one of the priorities of the european union. we must fully commit ourselves alongside tunisia to supporting the country's democratic transition and economic development. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the tunisian authorities to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is fully integrated into the union's macro-financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ this aid to tunisia in the form of medium-term loans is welcome and gives the tunisian people air but this decision which i supported must also be followed by a discussion on reducing the tunisian debt and recovering the assets stolen by former president ben ali. the commission should be the driving force in this area, as well as being the most flexible in encouraging the implementation of economic reforms. tunisia's progress towards democracy is a process to be encouraged. it must not be hampered by additional obligations which are not linked to the principles of reality.
in writing. ‒ since the terrorist attacks, tunisia has experienced moderate growth, balance of payments difficulties, growing internal unrest, an unemployment rate of 15% and a decline in tourism, which accounts for 7% of gdp. the country is seeking a new 15-year loan of €500 million from the eu and a new 4-year agreement with the imf. the programme with the latter and the structural reforms imposed by the eu risk further destabilising the country. these are fiscal reforms, adjustment measures, reforms of social security, the labour market, the regulatory framework for trade and investment. rejecting interference and the risk of destabilising an already fragile region, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ vote abstention on the legislative resolution, which is softer on reforms. it is important that this country, which is in serious financial and political difficulties, is not left behind, but reforms and various interferences could destabilise the country a little more. the european parliament has voted against the commission's proposal, which is identical to the one for the eur 500 million loan, but calls for draconian conditions that constitute an interference in tunisian politics.
in writing. ‒ the structural reforms imposed by the eu on tunisia risk further destabilising the country. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the provision of additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia for a maximum overall amount of eur 500 million. it is important to support the democratic process in this country. this assistance, which will take the form of loans, will be provided in exchange for the implementation of structural reforms by the tunisian authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal, which is intransigent on the structural reforms to be carried out and interferes with tunisian policy in exchange for a loan of €500 million. i abstained on the legislative resolution, which is much less harsh than the commission's. it is important that this country, which is in serious financial and political difficulties, is not left behind. however, the structural reforms imposed by the eu on tunisia risk further destabilising the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal on macro-financial assistance to tunisia, which is intransigent on structural reforms and interferes with tunisian policy in exchange for a loan of €500 million. following the terrorist attacks, tunisia is facing serious problems (instability in libya, growing internal unrest, unemployment rate of 15%, tourist withdrawal, etc.). in mid-april 2013, the imf released a $1.75 billion loan for 24 months (which has since been extended). the eu made a loan of €300 million in 2013, disbursed in instalments until 2016. tunisia is seeking a new 15-year loan of €500 million from the eu and a new 4-year agreement with the imf. i abstained on the legislative resolution, which is much less harsh than the commission's proposal. it is important that this country, which is in serious financial and political difficulties, is not left behind. however, the structural reforms imposed by the eu on tunisia risk further destabilising the country.
in writing. - tunisia is an unstable country. in particular, the terrorist attacks it has suffered, its proximity to libya, an unemployment rate of 15%, a lack of interest in tourism, strikes. to prevent a political shift in the country that would favour the arrival of islamist terrorists, the international monetary fund (imf) released a loan of $1.17 billion in mid-april 2013 over 24 months, and the eu a loan of €300 million in the same year, paid in installments until 2016. in return, the imf set a programme to be followed and the eu structural reforms to be carried out. however, they may destabilize the country. today, tunisia is seeking a new loan of €500 million from the eu over 15 years, which will only be available if the structural reforms are implemented. this european requirement was not the right solution, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ at the request of the tunisian government, the eu provided macro-financial assistance (mfa) of up to eur 500 million in the form of medium-term loans. the aid is planned to be paid in three instalments, one of which could be disbursed in the first half of 2016. in accordance with the practice established since 2009 by a joint declaration of the parliament and the council, the amf is subject to a dual conditionality: democratic and macroeconomic. i am voting in favour of this report because it is urgent to support tunisia. the commission will have to be as flexible as possible in encouraging the implementation of macroeconomic reforms. the amf should not be a means for the eu to impose austerity reforms on tunisia, which could also serve as a political argument in the event of early elections in this country, which is beset by multiple crises.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the legislative resolution and voted against the european commission's proposal. following a number of internal and external factors (terrorist attacks, instability in libya, internal unrest, strikes, etc.), tunisia is in a difficult situation. in april 2013, the imf released a $1.75 billion loan for 24 months and the eu made a €300 million loan. today, tunisia is applying for a new loan of €500 million from the eu. we believe that it is essential to provide macroeconomic assistance to tunisia, which is in serious financial and political difficulty, but the reforms and various interventions, including the structural reforms imposed by the eu, could have a much more damaging impact.
in writing. ‒ with a population of 10 million and a very small area compared to its neighbours, tunisia faces considerable challenges (unemployment, territorial inequalities, terrorism, the reception of 1.8 million libyan refugees) with exemplary courage. in this context, it would have been unthinkable for europe to refuse to help tunisia: i therefore supported the sarnez report without amendment, which provided for the emergency release of €500 million in macro-financial assistance (mfa) to the republic of tunisia in the form of loans. however, as rapporteur for the socialist and democratic group on relations between the european union and the maghreb, i took the opportunity of this debate to make a number of reminders in the presence of the european commission. the latter too often tends to make its loans conditional on the implementation of structural reforms of questionable effectiveness: the amf makes sense only if it encourages productive investment to combat unemployment. finally, the mfa should not be a pretext for postponing the resolution of long-term problems; the eu must make progress in reducing the debt inherited from the ben ali regime and recovering the assets embezzled.
in writing. ‒ the real way to help tunisian democracy, as the report says, is not through 'macro-financial assistance', i.e. a loan conditional on the implementation of structural reforms required by the imf. this alleged €500 million aid will strangle the budget of the tunisian state. moreover, since the first eu-imf loan in 2014, the debt now represents more than 56% of the country's gdp and is expected to reach 72% soon. as my friends from the popular front point out, the repayment of the debt is as much money lost for the state for the strengthening of democracy, the development of health care, the fight against unemployment, especially among young people, etc. the top? we have to vote for this assistance without having access to the details of the measures required, i.e. to sign a blank cheque. but the reforms demanded in 2014 suggest the content: lower taxes on companies, destruction of social security, breaking labor laws. we must forgive part of this debt, at least half, illegitimately incurred by the former dictator. some countries have already understood this and, if they do not abolish it, they convert their loans back into development projects. i vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ after providing a loan of €300 million in 2013, the eu is again requested by tunisia for €500 million. however, this loan is conditional on democratic principles and structural reforms. it is also important to note that tunisia is negotiating a free trade agreement with the eu. i abstained on this because, if tunisia is indeed facing serious financial difficulties, the proposed interference and reforms could destabilise the country a little more.
in writing. ‒ following the unrest generated by terrorist activities on its territory, tunisia is suffering from an economic slowdown, severe imbalances and internal instability. in 2013, the imf provided a loan of usd 1.75 billion and the eu provided eur 300 million. despite this, tunisia is again requesting a loan of €500 million and a further extension of the repayment of old debts. however, these loans are conditional on the implementation of structural reforms (budgetary reforms, social security, labour market, etc.) and respect for democracy. although it is important that this country in serious financial and political difficulties should not be left behind, we are voting against the commission's proposal, which is an example of european interference and could destabilise tunisia even further.
in writing. ‒ it is important that tunisia, a country in serious financial and political difficulty, is not left behind. but reforms and interference could destabilize the country a little more. since this report sets less restrictive conditions for tunisia than the eu demanded, i shall simply abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report relates to the macro-financial assistance to tunisia. the country is continuing its reforms following the arab spring, but is experiencing difficulties, notably as a result of the terrorist attacks it has suffered, which have affected many economic sectors, primarily tourism. i support €500 million in aid to tunisia, which will be essential to help it restore a favourable investment climate. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ it is important that tunisia, a country in serious financial and political difficulty, is not left behind. but reforms and interference of various kinds could destabilize it a little more. the report sets less restrictive conditions for tunisia than the eu had requested. but i have no confidence in the eu's advice and recommendations to third countries, seeing the disastrous results of its policies for the member states. that is why i prefer to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ since the so-called "arab spring" revolution of 2011, tunisia's economy has been in deep trouble. in addition, the country has been hit by deadly terrorist attacks in 2015, which have not contributed to stability in the country. it is in this context that i voted in favour of a loan of eur 500 million to tunisia, which is essentially aimed at reducing its external debt and promoting its budgetary balance. tunisia is therefore now invited to sign a memorandum of understanding with the european commission committing it to structural reforms and sound management of its public finances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which grants tunisia additional macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million. this aid will take the form of medium-term loans on favourable financial terms. this assistance will cover part of tunisia's external financing needs in 2016 and 2017, while facilitating reforms to restore the balance of payments and fiscal position more sustainably, improve the investment climate and foster economic integration and regulatory convergence with the eu. through this assistance, the union reaffirms its solidarity and support for tunisia; the objective remains to create the conditions for sustainable economic growth, which benefits everyone and creates jobs.
in writing. ‒ in a difficult economic context for tunisia, the tunisian government has requested emergency macro-financial assistance (mfa) from the european union totalling eur 500 million. unemployment and inequality are at their highest in this country, whose economy is largely based on the tourist sector, which has been weakened by the terrorist attacks of recent months. moreover, assets embezzled by the ben ali regime, sometimes hidden in european banks, are still blocked. the unblocking of the amf was absolutely necessary, because tunisia needs this aid. it is a country which has recently embarked on a successful democratic transition which the european union supports. the success of this transition will be supported by the good economic health of the country. the eu must therefore act quickly, without forcing the tunisians to implement counterproductive economic reforms. without this, the mfa would have only a limited effect.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to validate a new macrofinancial assistance (mfa) from the european union to tunisia. these are again loans which will therefore increase tunisia's debt and will serve above all to cover the needs of the tunisian balance of payments, thus making it possible for tunisia to carry out the famous structural reforms whose disastrous effects are known in europe. tunisia is in need of financial assistance, but not on any conditions. the gue/ngl tabled several amendments to ensure that this 'aid' is granted in the form of grants. we also asked that the amf not be made conditional on the implementation of structural reforms which mean more austerity and liberalisation to the detriment of the tunisian economy and agriculture. we have asked for an audit of the tunisian debt and for the suspension of its payments pending the results of this audit, which should highlight the odious debt that ben ali has benefited from. unfortunately, our amendments were rejected, so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ taxes must be paid where profits are made! this is what is advocated in the report by my socialist colleague, mr hugues bayet, who also proposes new rules to combat tax evasion. the report also gives the go-ahead for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the panama papers. there is a legitimate exasperation among our citizens, who realise that one of the great principles of our democracies - equality before tax - is being flouted and undermined by a number of practices such as tax optimisation, which allow many multinationals to pay ridiculously low taxes, and moreover in countries where they have no real economic activity. we must put an end to it once and for all!
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes a series of measures in a directive to combat tax evasion by groups of companies. after those on the automatic exchange of rescripts, this directive is central because it tackles the most common and costly mechanisms for public finances, at the heart of avoidance schemes. the text proposes six regulatory points: capping the deductibility of interest, taxing the exit of latent capital gains, introducing switch over clauses, a general anti-abuse clause, rules for the transfer of profits from parent companies to foreign companies under control and less taxed, hybrid schemes generating non-taxation. it should also be noted that the text provides a legal definition of tax havens, stable establishments, patent boxes and other key concepts in the fight against aggressive optimisation. the bayet report modifies some sensitive points of the commission proposal: for example, it doubles the thresholds for deductibility of excess interest and introduces exemptions for financial companies or public investors. as france is one of the least welcoming countries in the eu in tax matters, we have more to gain from restrictive legislation than the other way around. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to combat tax evasion in europe. however, i would like to make it clear that tax evasion can be hidden in tax optimisation practices which are the fruit of shameful practices of member states which fight each other with tax niches and tax rulings.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented in january 2016 a series of measures to combat tax evasion. this directive tackles the most common and costly mechanisms for public finances by proposing several regulatory points, such as an anti-abuse clause and by formulating a legal definition of the different key concepts in the fight against fiscal optimisation. the report made some changes to the commission's draft, for example by introducing various exemptions for financial companies. however, the european parliament is not a co-legislator here: as with all taxation matters, the council will retain the last word. i voted in favour of this report in order to support these advances which are in the interest of european public finances in general and french public finances in particular, france being one of the least tax-friendly countries in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this directive is crucial and proposes in particular six regulatory points: the cap on the deductibility of interest, the exit tax, the introduction of switch over clauses (taxation with a tax credit for foreign flows already taxed but at a significantly lower rate), a general anti-abuse clause, rules for the shifting of profits from parent companies to foreign companies under control and less taxed, and the case of hybrid schemes generating non-taxation. this bayet report modified some sensitive points in relation to the commission's proposal concerning the thresholds for deductibility of excess interest or the period for carrying forward excess ebitda (too favourable to multinationals). i would remind you that france is one of the least tax-friendly countries in the eu and that this legislation is in the direction of our national public finances but also in the sense that we have more to gain from the legislation presented than from a status quo. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the regulatory points put forward by the commission in january 2016 against tax evasion: - the cap on the deductibility of interest; - the taxation of exit tax; - the introduction of switch over clauses (taxation with a tax credit for foreign flows already taxed but at a significantly lower rate); - the general anti-abuse clause; - the rules for the shifting of profits from parent companies to foreign companies under control and less taxed; - hybrid schemes generating non-taxation. if the bayet report has modified some sensitive points in relation to the commission's draft, i remain in favour of the appropriateness of this regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ to tackle tax evasion, which costs governments around the world more than €240 billion a year, the report proposes a common solution to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they actually make profits. in this context, it is proposed to create a common consolidated corporate tax base to tackle fiscal dumping within the union. the rapporteur also stresses the need to limit the deductibility of interest on earnings so that companies can no longer undervalue their profits in order to pay less tax. since bilateral agreements are not enough to stop tax evasion in europe, i believe that it is essential to find a common solution while preserving our national sovereignty. that is why i voted in favour of this text. however, tax evasion must not be used as a pretext by the commission to develop a budgetary federalism behind the backs of our peoples.
in writing. ‒ the directive on rules to combat tax evasion is part of the european commission's tax transparency package. parliament is consulted only on this directive. it is time for multinational companies to pay their taxes where they do business. there is no question that smes are suffering from the misconduct of certain multinationals. the directive proposes to harmonise at european level the criteria for determining cases of tax evasion. harmonizing definitions is a first step towards convergence of member states' tax policies, which i have always supported. it is now up to the member states to decide unanimously on this issue. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented a directive on combating tax evasion by groups of companies in january 2016. after those on the automatic exchange of rescripts or country-by-country reporting, this directive (known as atad) tackles the most common and costly mechanisms for public finances, at the heart of avoidance schemes. it proposes capping the deductibility of interest, taxing exit gains, introducing switch-over clauses (taxation with a tax credit for foreign flows already taxed but at a significantly lower rate), a general anti-abuse clause, rules for the shifting of profits from parent companies to controlled and less taxed foreign companies, and hybrid schemes generating non-taxation. these advances are in the interest of national public finances, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: it seems appropriate to continue along the same lines and to support these advances which will be in the interest of national public finances.
in writing. ‒ numerous scandals have revealed the scale of tax evasion or aggressive tax planning by multinationals. for them, there is only one order: not to participate financially - or as little as possible - in the construction or maintenance of the public goods that they enjoy in our countries, whether it be transport infrastructure, political stability, the education system, etc. so i can only support rules that allow tax to be paid where the profits are actually generated and that tackle the most common evasion practices. i am less pleased that these rules are being established at european level. but we must be pragmatic, and citizens, especially in france where the middle classes and smes are crushed by taxes, expect their elected representatives to do something, even if it is only a non-binding opinion. the majority of the vote in this text is not overwhelming. it's gonna be even harder at the council. even if they have accepted the principle of such regulation, the member states which benefit from the current situation, such as the netherlands, ireland, luxembourg, malta, the united kingdom, etc., have every interest in weakening it. we'll see what happens and who takes over what.
in writing. tax must be paid where profits are made: it is in keeping with this principle that i voted for this report which aims to close loopholes used by fraudulent companies and includes legally binding measures to block the most common methods used by companies to avoid paying taxes. the text thus provides for a precise and binding definition of the conditions which certify that a multinational is well established in a country. it includes the establishment of a strict, common 28 member state blacklist of tax havens and countries that distort competition by means of favourable tax conditions, including those located in the union. it proposes to cap interest deductions at 20% and up to €2 million, an ambitious and more balanced approach than the commission's proposal, which prevents multinationals from artificially inflating the number of loans they take out. finally, the use of patent filing (which artificially reduces the amount of profits) is to be restricted by clarifying the definition of investment in research and development. this is a real step forward and deserves support.
in writing. ‒ it should be remembered that france is one of the least tax-friendly countries in the eu and that we have more to gain from stricter legislation in the field of tax optimisation than from a status quo. this is one of the reasons why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to combat the most common practices of tax evasion. the text is based on the principle that taxes should be paid where the company's profits are made. after the luxleaks and panama papers scandals, it is vital that the european union is at the forefront of the fight against tax evasion, which represents an annual loss of eur 160 to 190 billion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is part of the six sets of measures against aggressive tax planning, of which france is one of the first victims in europe.
in writing. ‒ on 29 june, the luxembourg courts will rule on the so-called luxleaks case, which has revealed the practices of tax avoidance and the aggressive optimisation schemes enjoyed by multinational firms in europe. in the face of this problem, the bayet report on rules to combat tax evasion proposes new measures to deal with those companies that manipulate the law and take unfair advantage of the disparities between the various tax systems in our internal market. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which will improve the tax conventions of the member states to make them more resistant to abusive practices. with this vote, i am responding to the demands of our citizens who want to put an end to tax evasion by companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on rules to combat tax evasion. the commission presented in january 2016 a set of measures in a directive to combat tax evasion by groups of companies. after those on the automatic exchange of rescripts or country-by-country reporting, this directive (called atad) is central because it tackles the most common and costly mechanisms for public finances, at the heart of avoidance schemes. it proposes capping the deductibility of interest, taxing the exit of latent capital gains, introducing switch-over clauses (taxation with a tax credit for foreign flows already taxed but at a significantly lower rate), a general anti-abuse clause, rules for the shifting of profits from parent companies to foreign companies under control and less taxed, and the case of hybrid schemes generating non-taxation. i would have preferred it to have been a french government which imposed it on its partners, but the chances of success in bilateral relations with the economically liberal political majorities are low, as the present situation shows. i think it is appropriate to support these advances, which will be in the interest of national public finances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is part of the fight against tax evasion by groups of companies. more specifically, a directive drawn up by the commission follows this line and tackles avoidance devices (the most common and costly mechanisms), under the name atad directive. it develops its approach on six new regulatory measures to be applied, from capping the deductibility of interest to the introduction of a switch over clause (taxation with a tax credit for foreign flows already taxed but at a lower rate). all of this regulation benefits france as it will act in favour of national public finances, through stricter legislation in the tax field.
in writing. ‒ this text constitutes parliament's negotiating position on the proposal for a directive laying down rules to combat tax evasion practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. the report contains many steps to combat these practices, including: - paying taxes where companies make their profits, through the precise and mandatory definition of the conditions that certify that a multinational is well established in a country; - the establishment of a strict and common blacklist of tax havens for the 28 member states, including those in the union; - the cap on interest deductions at 20% and up to €2 million, which prevents multinationals from artificially inflating the number of loans they take out; - the launch of a much-needed debate on a european-wide corporate tax rate, to eliminate the risk of tax competition. i support the implementation of these measures and therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this atad directive is central because it tackles the most common and costly mechanisms for public finances, at the heart of avoidance schemes. it proposes six regulatory points: the cap on the deductibility of interest, taxation on the exit of latent capital gains (exit tax), the introduction of switch over clauses (taxation with a tax credit for foreign flows already taxed but at a significantly lower rate), a general anti-abuse clause, rules for the shifting of profits from parent companies to foreign companies under control and less taxed, and the case of hybrid schemes generating non-taxation. the text also provides a legal definition of tax havens, stable establishments, patent boxes and other key concepts in the fight against aggressive optimisation. we support this text because france is one of the least tax-friendly countries in the eu and we have more to gain from stricter legislation in the field of tax optimisation than from the status quo. the council will have the final say on taxation. the ministers of the 28 member states have not yet reached agreement, partly because of the opposition of the netherlands and ireland.
in writing. ‒ the european union is letting €1 trillion evaporate in tax avoidance and optimisation. this situation is maintaining a crisis of public revenue and is blamed on inequality in taxation between taxpayers - in particular between smes and households on the one hand, and large groups on the other. the bayet report, which amends the commission's proposal for an anti-tax evasion directive, contains the first serious measures that have been proposed for a long time to restore tax fairness and prevent white collar crime. in particular, for corporate income that returns to europe, the so-called 'switch-over' clause ensures that flows into the eu have been taxed at a rate that is not unfair. this clause has been cleverly supplemented by our rapporteur, mr bayet, to apply a common criterion to the whole of the european union. for outflows from europe, the measure of taxation on the exit of profits leaving the union completes the scheme. we have long forgotten, in focusing on double taxation, that there was also massive double non-taxation. these measures, and many others, have my full support, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, which has been forced to act following the luxleaks revelations, now wants minimum tax harmonisation. every year, tax evasion and avoidance strategies by multinational companies cost european states 1 billion in lost revenue. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. parliament also wants to tax profit transfers to subsidiaries in countries where corporation tax is below 15%. while the text does not call into question the overall system of financial arrangements and tax havens allowing tax evasion, it proposes to limit the most visible abuses. i'm abstaining to encourage these measures.
in writing. ‒ the bayet report modified some sensitive points in relation to the commission's initial draft (thresholds for the deductibility of excess interest, the period for carrying forward excess ebitda, exemptions for financial companies or for public investments). the european parliament is not a co-legislator here, the council will have the last word. this regulation is an opportunity for france, which is one of the least tax-friendly countries in the eu. i think it is appropriate to support developments which will be beneficial to our national public finances. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in january 2016, the commission presented a set of measures in a directive to combat tax evasion by groups of companies. after those on the automatic exchange of rescripts or country-by-country reporting, this directive (called atad) is central because it tackles the most common and costly mechanisms for public finances, at the heart of avoidance schemes. on the appropriateness of this regulation, it should be recalled that france is one of the least tax-friendly countries in the eu and that we have more to gain from stricter legislation in the field of tax optimisation than in a status quo. our philosophy would certainly be that a french government should impose this on its partners, but the chances of success in bilateral relations with the economically liberal political majorities we know are low, as the present situation shows. it seems appropriate to continue along this line and to support these advances which will be in the interest of national public finances. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this text allows for progress which will be in the interest of national public finances, particularly french public finances. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to neutralise tax avoidance techniques through six measures. this directive is part of the 'anti-tax avoidance' package which also includes a recommendation on tax conventions, a revision of the directive on administrative cooperation, a communication on an external strategy for effective taxation. the commission estimates that tax fraud and tax avoidance cost up to €1 trillion each year. we must therefore do everything we can to combat this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ this text allows for progress which will be in the interest of national public finances, particularly french public finances. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive laying down rules to combat tax evasion practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the european internal market. the text, which has its origins in the action plan for fair and efficient business taxation presented by the european commission in june 2015, aims to adopt a strong and coherent approach at european level to combat abusive tax practices. this will include the implementation of the anti-tax avoidance directive in all member states, enhanced administrative cooperation between countries on taxation of multinationals and an external strategy for effective taxation to promote good tax governance worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the european union's policy of taking action to combat tax fraud and evasion is both a social justice imperative and an economic necessity for public authorities. this ambitious text is part of this policy. it is based on the principle that taxes should be paid where profits are made and includes legally binding measures to block the most common methods used by companies, or even member states, to minimise the taxes owed. it also proposes common definitions of terms which have hitherto remained open to interpretation, such as 'permanent establishment', 'tax havens' or 'mailbox companies'. while we welcome the progress made, we regret that this text falls under the consultation procedure, thus limiting the role that meps can play in this area. however, parliament strengthened the original proposal, notably with regard to the 'switch-over' clause (revenue taxed in a country outside the eu and then transferred to a member state of the union, often exempt from taxation to avoid double taxation). in accordance with the political lines presented, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to establish new rules to combat tax evasion. after the swissleaks, luxleaks and panama papers scandals, which revealed the scale of tax evasion practices at european and global level, we must act to ensure that tax is paid where the profit is made. the philosophy of this report is to make five important advances: a precise and mandatory definition of the conditions that certify that a multinational is well established in a country in order to ensure that it pays its taxes there; the cap on interest deductions at 20% up to eur 2 million, the 'switch-over' clause allowing the regulation of controlled foreign companies; an ambitious 'taxation at the exit' of profits to reduce double non-taxation; limiting the use of patent filing (which artificially reduces the amount of profits) through a clarification of the definition of investment in research and development. these advances must help to restore equality in taxation, a principle which is at the heart of our democracies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the fight against tax evasion. this is a major blow to our economy and cannot be tolerated. as the report points out, the tax secrecy of some countries poses a particular risk to member states' tax revenues and to the equal and fair treatment of companies. in order to combat tax havens, it advocates, in particular, withholding tax in the case of payments from the member states to entities practising tax secrecy or opacity. the report also calls for better tax cooperation between member states, a necessary step in the process of european integration. i supported this text because it calls for tackling the root causes of tax evasion, by proposing reforms at the level of the union but also at the level of the member states. in addition, it is accompanied by a monitoring mechanism to ensure the proper implementation of the directive and the uniform interpretation of its measures by the member states.
in writing. ‒ my colleague and socialist comrade hugues bayet's report on tax evasion affirms the european parliament's ambition to restore justice and equality in taxation. the recent revelations (swissleaks, panama papers, luxleaks, etc.) have had the merit of putting the fight against tax evasion back at the top of the political agenda. the socialists and democrats have set out a principle: taxes must be paid where the profits are made. to achieve this, the report proposed important steps: capping interest deductions, establishing a strict blacklist of tax havens common to the 28 member states, and limiting the use of patent filings, too often used to artificially reduce profits. this is a good thing, and taxes should not be avoided, because they are the foundation of a just society. there is no reason why those who pay their taxes should suffer the evasion of others. this report is encouraging, and we must go further by introducing public country-by-country reporting of multinationals. this is the best way to track profits efficiently.
in writing. ‒ in january 2016, the commission presented a set of measures in a directive to combat tax evasion by groups of companies. this directive is central because it tackles the most common and costly mechanisms for public finances, at the heart of avoidance schemes. six points: capping the deductibility of interest, taxing the outflow of latent capital gains, the introduction of switchover clauses, a general anti-abuse clause, rules for the shifting of profits from parent companies to foreign companies under control and less taxed, and the case of hybrid schemes generating non-taxation. the bayet report has made some changes to the commission's draft. the european parliament is not a co-legislator here, and as with all taxation matters, the council will retain the final say. at its meeting at the end of may, the ministers of the 28 member states failed to reach agreement, partly because of the opposition of the netherlands and ireland. it seems appropriate to continue along this line and to support these advances which will be in the interest of national public finances. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the luxleaks, the european commission is reportedly keen to make proposals to put a stop to these practices. the proposal for a directive submitted to the european parliament aims to 'set rules to combat tax evasion'. the aim is to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits and thus to define precisely the conditions for the establishment of multinational companies. the commission also proposes to set up a european tax identification number to facilitate the automatic exchange of tax data, which many companies refuse to disclose. the report proposes to establish a new blacklist of tax havens at european level and to include good governance clauses in tax matters in trade agreements and economic partnership agreements with third countries. in view of the panama papers scandal, this would indeed be a necessary minimum. unfortunately, while parliament has obtained improvements on the commission's original text, it is still a missed opportunity. definitions and obligations remain too vague, especially with regard to multinationals. i am not saying that we should not be doing more to restore the confidence of european citizens, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which calls for the fight against terrorism to be conducted within the framework of democratic rules and in compliance with the obligations of the member states in the field of human rights. if this principle is honourable, we object to the attacks in this text which are directed against certain member states (italy, poland and romania). the text reproaches them in particular for not having carried out a full inquiry. the resolution also calls on the commission to present a white paper on the circumstances in which national security and business secrets may be invoked, in order to increase transparency. i believe, on the contrary, that only the national authorities of the member states are in a position to determine whether the security of their country is threatened.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows on from a previous resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia, in which we already condemned the agency's illegal practices. we also call on the united states, the eu member states and the commission to launch investigations into the cia's secret prisons and the cases of illegal rendition, detention and torture that may have occurred on european territory between 2001 and 2006. it is clear that these recommendations have not yet been followed. the resolution also calls for the commission and the council to provide a report on the investigations and prosecutions carried out by the end of june 2016. i voted in favour of this new resolution because such practices and possible complicity with these cia programmes must not go unresolved or unpunished. the complicity in such activities is a clear violation of human rights and european values, and those responsible must be prosecuted. the fight against terrorism must respect the rule of law, human dignity and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for the fight against terrorism to be conducted in accordance with democratic rules and with the obligations of the member states in the field of human rights. the text attacks several member states, in particular romania, italy and poland, accused of failing to carry out serious investigations into the activities of the cia on their own territory. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to present a white paper defining the circumstances in which national security and state secrets cannot be invoked in a democratic society, in order to define essentially what does not fall under the concept of 'national security', which is too often invoked. the text congratulates barack obama, who has promised to close guantanamo, while this extraterritorial prison is still open. the resolution also calls on the member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared eligible for release. if it is not a question of supporting the clandestine practices of the cia, it is inconceivable that the commission could take a position on matters of state secrecy and national security. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which reminds the united states that respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law is an essential element for the success of counter-terrorism policies.
in writing. ‒ the text congratulates barack obama for having promised in 2008 to close guantanamo... while this great nobel peace prize, under whose presidency the united states will not cease to be at war, has not kept his promise. it is precisely because i do not accept the clandestine activities of the cia, which this report purports to condemn, that i could not endorse a text of such complacency.
in writing. - two weights and two measures! in today's vote we have seen once again how many of our colleagues have a variable geometry approach to the defence of human rights in the world. for the marxist venezuela, the left immediately finds mitigating circumstances, while this regime does not respect even the most elementary democratic rules. but for the united states, the great satan, who is a democratic ally of the european union, is being poured into tearful hysteria. let's not be fooled. all the secret services of all the countries of the world, even the democratic states, use methods that are contrary to the constitutional principles of those countries. but should we forget to mention the emergency situation in which the united states found itself after 9/11. yes, we must denounce torture, everywhere in the world, but not in a unilateral way.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the follow-up to parliament's resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia and clearly mentions that a number of eu member states, their administrations and leaders, as well as their security and intelligence agents, were complicit in this cia programme. the resolution proposes, among other things, the fight against terrorism in accordance with democratic rules, but unfortunately the text attacks several states (romania, italy and poland) on this point for not having carried out a full investigation. the resolution also congratulates obama for promising in 2008 to close guantanamo, which has not yet been closed, and calls on member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared eligible for release. in view of the above, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for the fight against terrorism to be conducted within the framework of democratic rules and in compliance with the obligations of the member states in the field of human rights. while this point does not require any comment, we do, however, dispute the attacks made in the text against certain member states, in particular italy, poland and romania, for not having carried out a further inquiry. the resolution also calls on the commission to present a white paper on the circumstances in which national security and business secrets may be invoked, in order to increase transparency. we believe, on the contrary, that only the national authorities of the member states are in a position to determine whether the security of their country is threatened, much to the displeasure of the technocrats in brussels. in these circumstances, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the resolution on the follow-up to the parliament's resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. i disagree with several provisions of this text put forward by the left-wing groups in the european parliament which put forward a wrong view of national security. i reject the idea that the fight against terrorism is being used as a pretext by governments to extend their powers to the detriment of european citizens. however, we must condemn in the strongest possible terms any use of torture. i therefore stress the importance of shedding light on the activities and use of torture by the cia, as well as on the notorious 'black sites' and secret prisons in europe. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it contains many very problematic points, in particular by repeatedly accusing the member states of the european union and the european commission of apathy in relation to cases of human rights violations and torture on european territory. these charges are inadmissible. the epp group to which i belong had proposed an alternative, more moderate resolution. while condemning the use of torture, the resolution recalled the primacy of national parliaments and judicial institutions and stressed the importance of cooperation between the united states and the european union, particularly in the fight against terrorism. i am of course in favour of this cooperation, which is absolutely necessary, just as i am deeply committed to respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to ensure that the fight against terrorism is conducted within the framework of democratic rules and in compliance with the obligations of the member states in the field of human rights. the text attacks several member states, such as romania, poland and italy, which are considered to be apathetic to the subject. he congratulated obama on his 2008 pledge to close guantanamo, which was never implemented. the text denounces the tendency of governments to over-react to 'national security' and calls on member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared eligible for release. for these reasons, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. this resolution follows on from a previous resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia, in which we already condemned the agency's illegal practices. we also call on the united states, the eu member states and the commission to launch investigations into the cia's secret prisons and the cases of illegal rendition, detention and torture that may have occurred on european territory between 2001 and 2006. however, these recommendations have not yet been followed. i voted in favour of this new resolution because such practices and possible complicity with these cia programmes must not go unresolved or unpunished. the complicity in such activities is a clear violation of human rights and european values, and those responsible must be prosecuted. the fight against terrorism must respect the rule of law, human dignity and fundamental freedoms. by adopting this resolution, which i welcome, parliament is asking for answers from the commission and the council, and a report on the investigations and prosecutions carried out by the end of june 2016.
in writing. ‒ a year ago, the european parliament voted a resolution condemning the climate of impunity in the member states, some of which are said to have allowed secret cia prisons on their territories. the epp and i voted against this text for the same reasons as those which led us to reject this new resolution. parliament denounces, accuses, and orders criminal investigations, even targeting the council of europe, which had the audacity to close its investigation. unfortunately, these are just conjectures and not the result of a thorough investigation based on tangible evidence. to claim that governments act with the sole or main purpose of preventing scrutiny by citizens or the judiciary and that the balance of power is dangerously shifted in favour of governments are value judgments that have nothing to do with the subject of this inquiry. firstly, i think it is irresponsible for an institution composed of democratically elected parliamentarians to suggest that the institutional and constitutional order of the member states is not democratic and that we are witnessing authoritarian drift. secondly, whether investigations should be carried out is a matter for the judicial authorities to decide and certainly not for the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the commission to present a white paper on the circumstances in which national security and state secrets cannot be invoked in a democratic society, in order to define essentially what does not fall under the concept of national security . he calls for transparency in the fight against terrorism and attacks the growing tendency of governments to over-react to national security. it congratulated mr obama for promising in 2008 to close guantanamo, which has not yet been closed, and called on member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared eligible for release. it is not a question of supporting the clandestine or other activities of the cia, but there is enough in this text not to support it, and that is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which is a real indictment of the member states and the european institutions accused of apathy when it comes to admitting violations of fundamental rights and torture on european territory. the political group to which i belong, the epp, had proposed a more moderate alternative resolution which, while strongly condemning the secret cia programme, stressed the importance of cooperation between europe and the united states in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it denounces the invention by the united states of state secrets. however, i consider that any state has the right to protect its sovereignty by invoking state secrets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the follow-up to the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. i am of course in favour of the principle that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with the rule of law, human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, the resolution contains several points which are contrary to the concept of the sovereignty of the member states. paragraph 22, for example, in which parliament expresses 'deep concern at the increasing tendency of governments to over-react to national security'. the concept of state security, in quotation marks in the text, is also attacked in paragraph 16 and in recital b. another problem is the request to member states to offer asylum to guantanamo detainees who have been officially declared eligible for release. as if we in france and other member states did not have enough problems.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the end of the use of torture against detainees by cia agents between 2001 and 2006, with the publication last year of the us senate report, the text seems to put forward principles. it stresses the absolute respect for human rights and the importance of democratic rules in a climate of counter-terrorism. the rapporteur also calls on the commission to present a white paper redefining the concept of national security, while warning member states against the increasing tendency to use the term as a pretext. despite these sensible remarks, some of them are hypocritical, notably when the rapporteur congratulates barack obama for having promised in 2008 to close guantanamo, which is still not the case. it also called on the member states to offer asylum to prisoners who have been officially released. i cannot support these statements, and therefore i have abstained.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the principle of this resolution seems to be good in itself: the text requires that the fight against terrorism be carried out within the framework of democratic rules and in compliance with the obligations of the member states in the field of human rights. but the text attacks several member states (notably romania, poland, italy) for not having carried out a full investigation and contains several points that we do not agree with. the resolution calls on the member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared released from guantanamo or to present a white paper on the circumstances in which national security and state secrets cannot be invoked in a democratic society.
in writing. ‒ the resolution condemns absolutely torture. and it underscores the national security futility of this: the conclusions drawn by the us senate that the violent and illegal methods used by the cia failed to provide intelligence that would have prevented further terrorist attacks . but in the face of the cia's actions on european soil, this timid text merely regrets that no perpetrator has yet been held to account for his actions and that the us government does not cooperate with the eu member states. or politely ask the us authorities not to use the death penalty on guantanamo detainees. i don't think you should be polite to torturers. and i note that not for a moment does the resolution contemplate calling into question our relations with the united states or suspending the negotiations currently under way on the great transatlantic market. finally, while nato has acted as a full partner of the cia and has participated in efforts to conceal the existence of these secret prisons, not a word of the resolution proposes the removal of nato bases in the countries concerned. i abstain on this hypocritical text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the fight against terrorism to be conducted within the framework of democratic rules and in compliance with the obligations of the member states in the field of human rights. i am of course in favour of this approach. however, i regret the lawsuit brought against several member states for the way they conducted their investigation. other points are also questionable (asylum for released prisoners, conditional national security). i therefore opposed the resolution.
in writing. ‒ there are too many elements in this text (it congratulates obama for promising in 2008 to close guantanamo, when it still hasn't been closed, it asks member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared releasable...) for me to support it.
in writing. ‒ i could not support a text that denounces the strengthening of security in the member states of the european union, in particular through mechanisms that allow governments to react more quickly, because of terrorism. the resolution also called on member states to offer asylum to detainees declared eligible for release by guantánamo. i therefore voted against the resolution tabled by the libe committee.
in writing. ‒ there are too many questionable elements in this text (it congratulates obama for promising in 2008 to close guantánamo, when it still hasn't been closed, it asks member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared released...) for me to support it. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it deals with a question relating to the competences and responsibilities of the member states of the european union and not of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which follows the resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report. we regret that, more than a year after the publication of the us senate study and the parliament's resolution on the subject, no author has yet been held accountable for his actions. the study reinforced allegations that some eu member states were complicit in the cia's secret detention and extraordinary rendition programme, accused of numerous human rights violations and torture from 2001 to 2005. we reiterate our call on the member states to investigate on their territory, ensuring transparency, with a view to bringing to justice those who participated in these operations. we also call on the united states to review the military commission system with a view to ensuring fair trials, and to prohibit in all circumstances the use of torture, ill-treatment and indefinite detention without trial.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the fight against terrorism to be conducted within the framework of democratic rules and in compliance with the obligations of the member states in the field of human rights. in theory, this principle is indeed difficult to challenge. however, the text attacks several member states (notably romania, poland and italy) for not having carried out a full inquiry. the resolution calls on the commission to present a white paper on the circumstances in which national security and state secrets cannot be invoked in a democratic society, in order to define essentially what does not fall under the concept of 'national security'. he wants transparency in the fight against terrorism and attacks the growing tendency of governments to over-report on national security (quotation marks are in the text). it congratulated mr obama for promising in 2008 to close guantanamo, which has not yet been closed, and called on member states to offer asylum to detainees who have been officially declared to be released. i do not wish to support the cia's practices, but i am forced to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new european parliament resolution which has been calling for 10 years for a full investigation to establish the truth about the cia's detentions, torture, prisons and illegal activities in the european union. the resolution, which unfortunately is not binding, calls on the member states and the european institutions to investigate these violations in full transparency and to bring to justice those responsible and those complicit in them. the resolution also deplores the failure to honour the us president's commitment to close guantánamo and calls once again on the us authorities to honour this promise and to prohibit torture and indefinite detention without trial. given the fundamental role that parliament plays in clarifying this matter, we tabled an amendment to have the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, together with the subcommittee on human rights, monitor this work. unfortunately, some political groups, under pressure from the governments concerned, are trying to prevent our work from going ahead. our amendment was rejected by one vote. i voted for it, though.
madam president, this is a very astonishing report, since you are proposing both greater autonomy in space matters and, a few lines later, you are saying this incredible thing: that the european union is to strengthen its cooperation and coordination with the north atlantic treaty organisation, which we call nato in my country, and with the united states, both of which remain the guarantors of security and stability in europe, and this after voting a few moments ago that the united states was organizing secret prisons where people are tortured in europe. i find all this to be aberrant. the european union must be concerned about the demilitarisation of space, because it is the next frontier, the current frontier of humanity, and it is not good that it should be the place of a multiplication of military control devices and methods, all the more so when you end by saying that you intend to control the boats that take refugees. this is all nonsense.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on space capabilities for security and defence in europe. this report uses the current terrorist threats as a pretext for defining a european space policy. it should be remembered, however, that the europe of space is not even an intergovernmental programme, since france provides more than 60% of the resources needed to finance these projects. the report also stresses the need for european space programmes to be part of nato and the transatlantic partnership. if financial and technological cooperation between the member states seems essential to carry out these projects in space, we object to the european union's wish to subordinate our space policy to the united states. i opposed this text because it is essential that france should maintain its strategic and technological independence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the development of critical space technologies and independent european space capabilities. space technologies and services, such as satellite communication or earth observation, are of vital importance not only for border management, energy security, disaster management or transport, civil activities, but also for security and defence.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of fighting terrorism and the migration crisis, this report wants to europeanise space policy. it should be noted that the european intergovernmental programme (european space agency) is largely financed by france. while space policy is a key element of national sovereignty, the report envisages a space policy for the union within the framework of nato and under the aegis of a transatlantic strategic partnership. this report therefore buries the french conception of space policy, but it has the merit of revealing the true nature of european projects for these programmes and technologies. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ as a strong supporter of the creation of a european army, i voted in favour of this report. the union must strengthen its capacity to ensure security at home and abroad, so as to guarantee stability in its neighbourhood and in the world. the union should contribute to the fight against security threats, in particular those arising from terrorism, both at home and abroad, in particular by assisting third countries in combating terrorism and its root causes. member states and the union should cooperate to establish an effective and coherent border management system and thus secure the external borders.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that space development needs to be addressed in a comprehensive approach at the level of the european union. it is impossible for a single european state to have sufficient resources to develop the many existing and future space technologies. this is particularly true in the current climate of insecurity, the rise of terrorism and the influx of migrants. the union must allow, in the context of intergovernmental cooperation, the use of its space capabilities to monitor, for example, terrorist training camps by means of its satellites, or to anticipate migratory floods on our coasts and stop them before these boats of fortune run aground. we all have an interest in the development of joint civil programmes such as galileo, copernicus and airbus, which are the real successes of european technological and commercial cooperation. the european space agency must be able to play an important role in the definition and implementation of a european space policy and it must fully integrate the security and defence policy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report on space capabilities for security and defence in europe is part of the current atmosphere of the fight against terrorism and takes advantage of this and the migration crisis to want to europeanise space policy. it should be remembered that the europe of space is a french programme (france alone covers on average 60% of the project budget, plus all the overruns) to which european countries have added to make it look like a vampire (germany in particular). i would also remind you that the independence of space technology is a central point of our sovereignty arrangements. the report also raises the problem via nato. nevertheless, it should be remembered that france's independence was also acquired against america since de gaulle. in addition, russia is also mentioned as an enemy (paragraph 12) and for all these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is part of the current atmosphere of the fight against terrorism, takes advantage of this issue and the migration crisis to try to europeanise space policy. the report also raises the issue of space in the context of nato and a transatlantic strategic partnership. i would like to point out that the independence of space technology is a central point of our sovereignty system (vectors, surveillance, interception, militarization of space, communication) to which i am very attached. this report clearly endangers that sovereignty. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report uses the current terrorist threats as a pretext for defining a european space policy. in these circumstances, it should be recalled that the europe of space is not even an intergovernmental programme, since france provides more than 60% of the resources needed to finance these projects. the report also stresses the need for european space programmes to be part of nato and the transatlantic partnership. if financial and technological cooperation between member states seems essential to carry out these projects in space, we object to the european union's wish to subject our space policy to the united states. our strategic independence is at stake. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the importance of space capabilities for strengthening security and defence in europe. the union is contributing to this through the commission's 2016 work programme, which provides for the development of a space strategy. this strategy should build on horizon 2020, copernicus and galileo and provide political and financial support to the space industry. i share the objective of coordinating the different strands of eu space activities through a roadmap that will foster targeted sectoral activities and the development of european space programmes. however, a comprehensive approach to space issues should be maintained and incorporated into strategic thinking on security and defence.
in writing. i supported this report on space capabilities for security and defence in europe. i would remind you that the european union's space programmes, galileo and copernicus, are essential for preventing and resolving crises. in addition, the use of space capabilities in the fight against terrorist organisations is crucial for the detection and monitoring of terrorist training camps.
in writing. ‒ the text, which refers to the fight against terrorism and the migration crisis, aims to europeanise space policy. however, space europe is not an intergovernmental programme, but a french programme, with france alone covering on average 60% of the project budget plus all the overruns. european countries such as germany have joined this. this report addresses the issue of space in the context of nato and a transatlantic strategic partnership, even though it is a clear issue of independence and sovereignty. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report is a complete and utter disgrace to the french conception of space policy.
in writing. ‒ this report buries the french conception of space policy. it has the merit of revealing the true nature of european projects for these programmes and technologies. a total renationalisation of these policies must be considered in the light of this type of document, which endangers our strategic and technological independence. that is why it is logical to have voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for a thorough analysis of the security of satellite programmes and underlines the economic importance of developing space capabilities. the european union is developing its own autonomous space programmes, such as galileo, which allows very precise positioning, and copernicus, which meets complex needs in terms of earth observation. it also plans to acquire new communication capabilities through the govsatcom programme, which is currently in its preparatory phase.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for the europeanisation of space policies and their subordination to nato. this is particularly damaging for france, which is the eu's leading space power.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on space capabilities for security and defence in europe. this report is part of the current atmosphere of the fight against terrorism and takes advantage of this issue and the migration crisis to try to europeanise space policy (point 2, point 14, point 50 on funding). it should be remembered that the europe of space is not even an intergovernmental programme, but a french programme (france alone covering on average 60% of the project budget plus all the overruns) to which european countries have added to vampirize it. it should also be remembered that the independence of space technology is a central point of our sovereignty arrangements (vectors, surveillance, interception, militarization of space, communication). however, the report puts the question of space in the context of nato (recital c, point 23) and of a transatlantic strategic partnership (recital m, point 21). it should be remembered that the strategic and technological independence gaulish france acquired, it also acquired against america. this report is a complete and utter disgrace to the french conception of space policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. france defends a particular vision of space policy, which must above all be independent and an inviolable sovereign competence. the programme, called europe of space, is primarily a french design, since it covers almost 60% of the projects' budget and their overrun. the text put to the vote, which is based on the context of the fight against terrorism and the migration crisis, aims to europeanise space policy and give it a 'junus orientation', fighting against (theoretical) concepts such as hybrid wars or cyber warfare. it is clear that there is an agreement between the european and american leaders, who claim to be fighting the russian enemy. our french conception, as well as our strategic and technological independence, is jeopardized by this relationship.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text aims to europeanise space policy by incorporating it into an anti-terrorism programme and in the context of the migration crisis. he envisages this policy through nato. the independence of space technology is a central point of our sovereignty arrangements (vectors, surveillance, interception, militarization of space, communication). this document endangers our strategic and technological independence.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the fight against terrorism and takes advantage of this issue to europeanise space policy. it should be noted, however, that france alone covers 60% of the budget for the projects of the europe of space. it should also be remembered that the independence of space technology is a central point of our sovereignty arrangements. finally, the report puts the question of space in the context of nato and a transatlantic strategic partnership, which is a reversal of history. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to europeanise space policy, which is not an intergovernmental programme at the moment but a french one. france covers 60% of the budget and all overruns. strategic and technological independence in the field of space was achieved against the will of the united states to dominate in the era of general de gaulle and is decisive for our sovereignty. the report calls for integration of the space sector within nato and a transatlantic partnership. we therefore vote against because we defend our french conception of space policy and its strategic independence.
in writing. ‒ this report is a complete and utter disgrace to the french conception of space policy. it has the merit of revealing the true nature of european projects for these programmes and technologies. a total renationalisation of these policies must be considered in the light of this type of document, which endangers our strategic and technological independence. obviously, vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on space capabilities for a europe of security and defence. i particularly support the inclusion in this text of a provision which emphasises that satellite capabilities could be used to better assess and identify illegal immigrant flows and the routes they take.
in writing. ‒ this report implicitly buries the french conception of space policy. it has the merit of revealing the true nature of european projects for these programmes and technologies. this is all the more damaging because in the field of space, the ariane project has shown that well-managed intergovernmental cooperation produces excellent results. it is also inconceivable that a democracy should delegate to opaque technocratic bodies areas essential to its defence and security. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the space technologies and services developed by the european union are of major importance for civilian activities but also for our security and defence. it is with the need to strengthen our access to space and the development of ambitious and effective programmes in mind that i voted for this report on space capabilities for security and defence in europe. in particular, the union's autonomous space programmes such as galileo or copernicus will need to require sustained protection and investment. a programme such as govsatcom, therefore, will increase our satellite communication capabilities in europe and will be part of the arsenal of essential high-tech tools for the implementation of the common european security and defence policy. finally, special attention must be paid to european launchers and i also stress the need to preserve the formidable instrument of the guyanese space centre at kourou, the spearhead of a french space industry at the service of europe.
in writing. ‒ with this text, we, the members of parliament, recall the vital importance for the european union of space technologies and services, whether for civil activities or for security and defence. while supporting the principle of the non-militarisation of space, we affirm in this report the need for europe to have its own independent space capabilities (satellite communication, situational analysis, precision navigation or earth observation), as they play a crucial role in border management, energy security, disaster management or transport, but also in european security. in this respect, space policy is an essential component of the union's strategic autonomy, in order to preserve its independent technological, industrial and evaluation capacities. in view of the success of the european space programmes (such as copernicus, and soon galileo), we call on the commission and the member states to invest more in space infrastructure and to ensure that the union's resources are used to the best possible effect. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to improve european space capabilities for security and defence. it is unfortunate that the security situation is becoming more complex and dangerous, both within our borders and beyond. the union must be able to respond to them and its space policy can bring added value if it is used wisely and strengthened strategically. the space sector must be included in the new overall strategy of the union on foreign and security policy issues. in addition, the need for the union to be independent and autonomous in respect of its space capabilities and infrastructures should be emphasised, as should the commitment to the non-militarisation of space. european cooperation must be strengthened, as must synergies between member states and with european and international institutions. space programmes have advantages in terms of security and defence, but also in scientific, technological and industrial terms. european space policy must therefore be encouraged, especially as it is a source of success, as demonstrated by the flagship civilian programmes galileo and copernicus.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines the importance of the space sector in the context of the common european security policy. space policy is an essential dimension and contributes to the eu's strategic autonomy. space capabilities are essential for european security and defence. the importance and added value of space policy in the context of csdp should be emphasised. in this sense, space should be part of the union's future policies, particularly in the fight against terrorism. in this context, space policy should pursue two key objectives: security on the planet through space systems in orbit and security in outer space. given the current growth of the european union's space programmes, it is necessary to integrate the space dimension into the new overall eu strategy.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the current atmosphere of the fight against terrorism and takes advantage of this issue and the migration crisis to try to europeanise space policy. it should be remembered that the europe of space is not even an intergovernmental programme, but a french programme to which european countries have added to vampirize it. it should also be remembered that the independence of space technology is a central point of our sovereignty arrangements. the report puts the question of space in the context of nato and a transatlantic strategic partnership. it should be remembered that the strategic and technological independence which france has acquired has also been acquired against america. it should also be noted that the report again highlights the ottonian diatribe against hybrid wars (a vague concept in military history) and cyber warfare. these words are codes in the alliance literature for the russian enemy. this report is a complete and utter disgrace to the french conception of space policy. it has the merit of revealing the true nature of european projects for these programmes and technologies. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the zdrojewski report focuses on space capabilities for security and defence in europe. under the guise of 'providing a real guarantee of (...) security for european citizens' and combating terrorism, this report is part of the strengthening of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp), focused both on militarisation and on rapprochement with nato. the report also raises concerns about the issue of migration. in particular, it proposes to consider that satellite capabilities could be used to 'better assess and identify the flows of illegal immigrants and the routes they follow' and thus be used for migration control purposes. the saving of lives is highlighted, but we know what is happening and i will continue to denounce the security deviations of migration policies which are instead responsible for a growing number of deaths in the mediterranean. rejecting a strengthening of the csdp, a mixed civil and military approach to space capabilities and ever-greater cooperation with nato, i voted against this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on the opening of the space market and space technologies. like the report on space capabilities, it buries any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an economic logic that is irrelevant to the subject of space. space is first and foremost an extension of the defence domain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the opening of a space market and the union's efforts to stimulate investment and access to technologies and data. it is essential for the union to invest in the infrastructure of the european gnss and copernicus programmes by 2020. the commission should also carry out a 'spatial audit' of all existing and new strategic initiatives to ensure that the union's resources are used wisely in this area.
in writing. ‒ this text is a single resolution on the opening of the space market and space technologies, adopted during the space debate, which was marked by the plenary vote on the report of the foreign affairs committee on space capabilities. this resolution opposes any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an irrelevant economic logic to space, which remains above all an extension of the field of defence. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the opening of a european space market is part of the europeanisation of space policy, which means the end of the intergovernmental procedure which has made these programmes (particularly the french programmes) a success. unfortunately, this text gives the commission all the power and authority. i reject this state and have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is in the same vein as the report on space capabilities (zdrojewski report). it buries any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an economic logic that is irrelevant to the subject of space. space is first and foremost an extension of the defence domain. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the european commission to present a comprehensive strategy in the space field, including the opening of the market for space data, services and applications. the rapporteur calls for a european space policy based on the increased involvement of regional authorities. although increased financial and technological cooperation between member states seems desirable, we contest the european union's desire to create a common space policy that would be part of nato. it is in our strategic interest in the field of defence. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ space is a sector of excellence in which europe plays a leading role. as such, it is necessary to continue our efforts to put the galileo and copernicus programmes, in which we have invested heavily, into operation. on the other hand, the european union must affirm its political and financial support for the space sector as it contributes to innovation and growth in a cross-cutting way. the impact of the proliferation of global space players, particularly in emerging countries, and of newspace's competition should also be taken into account. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution of parliament, which proposes ways forward for european space policy in the 21st century.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the opening of a space market. this resolution recommends that european space programme infrastructures and services be used in related policies and programmes, in particular to address challenges such as migration, border management and sustainable development. i believe that there is a need to strengthen the links between the union's space resources and activities in these areas.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the opening of the space market and space technologies excludes any possibility of serious strategic independence. it applies an economic logic which ignores the fact that space is above all an extension of the field of defence. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this resolution is in the same vein as the report on space capabilities (zdrojewski report). it buries any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an economic logic that is irrelevant to the subject of space. space is first and foremost an extension of the defence domain.
in writing. ‒ investing in space is investing in a strategic area for the future of europe and all our citizens! the space sector, too little known to our citizens, has consequences for all our public policies such as defence, digital, agriculture, the environment or border management! there is an urgent need to make better use of all space data for their benefit and to share this data better to generate new space services and applications, which must be achieved through strong political support for our european programmes, galileo, egnos and copernicus. it would be a huge mistake to miss out on all these resources. europe has the means to remain a great space power!
in writing. ‒ this resolution is similar to the report on space capabilities (zdrojewski report). it buries any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an economic logic that is irrelevant to the subject of space. space is first and foremost an extension of the defence domain. i voted against, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution for the opening of a space market, with a view to adopting the space strategy to be proposed by the european commission in autumn 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is part of the europeanisation of space policy. the fact that the text gives the commission any authority is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the opening of a space market. this resolution is in the same vein as mr zdrojewski's report on space capabilities. it buries any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an economic logic that is irrelevant to the subject of space. space is first and foremost an extension of the defence domain. the resolution is part of the process of europeanising space policy, i.e. the end of the intergovernmental procedure which made these (mainly french) programmes successful. the fact that the text gives the commission any authority is unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the resolution is on the opening of the space market and space technologies. here again, it applies the logic of economic liberalisation, whereas space, which is closely linked to defence policy, should be the prerogative of sovereign states alone.
in writing. ‒ the resolution welcomes the european space progress. it is estimated that over the next 20 years, the european gnss should generate economic and social benefits worth between eur 60 and 90 billion. the aim of the text is to exploit the full potential of the spatial data market, which would necessarily involve stimulating both private and public demand. the resolution also states that 'future space services should be mainly provided by and procured from commercial companies', but takes care to add: 'unless there is a good reason not to do so'. i have a few suggestions. the main objective of the galileo project is to break the dependence on the us system and to allow european states to have sovereignty over sensitive data. what about this sovereignty if these services are now in private hands? moreover, this will entail privatisation of profits even though the main investments were public, in particular by the french state. in short, i am opposed to the commodification of space and i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is in the same vein as the report on space capabilities. it buries any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an economic logic that is irrelevant to the subject of space. space is first and foremost an extension of the defence domain. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this unique resolution on the opening of a space market, which follows the report on space capabilities (zdrojewski report) and which buries any serious desire for strategic independence.
in writing. ‒ this report is a complete and utter disgrace to the french conception of space policy. it has the merit of revealing the true nature of european projects for these programmes and technologies. a total renationalisation of these policies must be considered in the light of this type of document, which endangers our strategic and technological independence. obviously, vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the opening of a space market. the resolution calls, in particular, for the further development of galileo and copernicus, as part of the adoption of the space strategy to be proposed in autumn 2016, and for the eu to become a world leader in space technology.
in writing. ‒ like the previous report, this one is very clear on the true nature of european projects for space programmes and technologies. this europeanist approach is all the more damaging because in space, the ariane project has shown that well-managed intergovernmental cooperation produces excellent results. it is also inconceivable that a democracy should delegate essential policy areas to opaque technocratic bodies. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution for the opening of a space market in the context of the forthcoming adoption of the european space strategy to be proposed by the european commission in autumn 2016. in this capacity, i spoke in the house to stress that the promotion of a coherent and strong european space policy is necessary for this sector of the future, which will be a growth engine for europe. i stressed the need for independent access to space, the further development of european satellite systems such as galileo or copernicus, and the need to make direct use of space resources in our economy and for citizens. so our customers today, like india for example, will be our competitors tomorrow in this very competitive space universe. so to stand out, we must innovate and strengthen our technological edge so that france and europe are always at the forefront of research and the use of data from space.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is to be seen in parallel with the adoption, on the same day, of the report by bogdan andrzej zdrojewski on space capabilities for security and defence in europe. this resolution, although it has no legislative value, is still a step forward in laying the foundations for the reflection on the 'space strategy for europe' that the commission intends to launch in 2016. we stressed the need to maintain the openness of the market for space data, services and applications in order to maximise the socioeconomic benefits of the european space programmes, while strengthening, through these programmes, the autonomy and independence of the european union in the space field. europe needs its own space capabilities (satellite communication, situational analysis, precision navigation or earth observation) which play a crucial role in border management, energy security, disaster management or transport, as well as in european security. above all, we must work towards the emergence of a market for space services and the development of applications exploiting the data generated by the developed infrastructures. in accordance with this political line, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which calls for investment in the space sector, in particular in the context of the european space strategy to be published next autumn. programmes such as egnos, galileo and copernicus must be placed at the heart of the european industrial and space strategy. they have a significant potential for research, growth and employment. the european union's space policy must be coherent and strong. it affects many other policies such as defence, digital and border management, and we must ensure that these policies are consistent with each other.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is in the same vein as the report on space capabilities (zdrojewski report). it buries any serious desire for strategic independence and applies an economic logic that is irrelevant to the subject of space. space is first and foremost an extension of the defence domain. i am voting against this text.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution. i am convinced that the role of the european parliament and the european union in the international arena is also to try to support the democratic tendencies in the individual countries which are partners of the european union, and in the case of venezuela, which is the subject of this resolution, it is clear that this country is today on the brink of civil war, that there are enormous economic problems, which my predecessors also mentioned. it is therefore appropriate that the european parliament adopt a resolution on this subject, including by inviting the various parties in venezuela to debate and that representatives of the european parliament take part in such a debate where appropriate. on the other hand, it is right that the resolution clearly states that the culprit of the problem today is president maduro and his people, that he abuses the judiciary for his power games and that on the other hand there is a democratically elected parliament that should be our partner.
madam president, this is a resolution that is absolutely useless. i wonder in what country in the world the government is called a dictatorship when it loses the elections and recognizes it, when it loses the referendums and recognizes it. in what country in the world would you support an opponent who stores weapons of war and bombs in his own country? if you do that, then be prepared to treat as a political prisoner any terrorist we arrest. maybe mr. maduro should have had this opponent given 1,000 lashes. because then he would benefit from the complicit silence of this house, as you do with saudi arabia, but you find a way to cite one of its nationals, who is chairman of the commission on human rights - yes, a saudi, chairman of the un commission on human rights - to point the finger at venezuela! the truth is, you only deal with those who defend the poor to beat them and discriminate against them. the truth is that all this is part of a destabilization enterprise organized by the united states of america, which is making institutional coups d'état as they did in guatemala, as they did in brazil, as they did in honduras and that all this is just a moment of international propaganda by nato and the united states of america. it's not worth anything, and i say that to the anger of those who love governments that stand up for the poor.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is currently experiencing a great period of internal unrest. political instability is contributing to these tensions. although president maduro has conceded defeat in the last elections, the country is unable to find a modus vivendi between the two major parties. added to this is the fact that oil prices remain very low, but also that outside powers are interfering in the conflict and that endemic crime is wreaking havoc. while international organisations have a role to play in negotiations with the various stakeholders, we believe that the other states (the united states) and the european union must respect the principle of non-interference in internal affairs. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. we call on the two parties in power in venezuela to refrain from any use of violence and to launch a process of national dialogue based on institutional cooperation and mutual trust for the benefit of the venezuelan people. we call on the european commission to allow the use of the current financial instruments of external action to be able to accompany this dialogue process.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is currently experiencing a significant period of unrest. although the government of president maduro has admitted defeat in the last elections, the country has not been able to restore a peaceful situation. in addition, oil prices remain very low even though they constitute almost all of the country's foreign exchange earnings, outside powers are intervening in the conflict to overthrow the maduro government, including the united states, colombia and several european states. finally, the rampant crime in that country is wreaking havoc that the opposition is using politically. the negative opinion one may have of the bolivarian model must not lead to the violation of the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a state. in addition, unasur and the un are currently conducting negotiations between the various parties. the union is therefore all the more illegitimate in meddling in this matter. i therefore voted against the joint motion for a resolution which was tabled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the venezuelan government to respect the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers. the government of president nicolás maduro is urged to implement urgent economic reforms with a view to finding a constructive solution to the economic, humanitarian and energy crisis. a plan for assistance to the country is also urgently needed and the venezuelan authorities are invited to allow humanitarian aid and international organisations access to the territory to meet the most urgent and basic needs of the population.
in writing. ‒ venezuela has been in crisis for several months and despite the fact that the government of president maduro (chávez) has admitted defeat in the 2015 legislative elections, the country still cannot come to an agreement. on 15 january 2016, he decides to declare a state of emergency and in april 2016, the main opposition party mud files a petition of 2 million signatures in favor of a referendum to remove him from his position. moreover, foreign powers are infiltrating the conflict (the united states and its south american and european allies), poverty is not abating, crime is rampant, and the absence of policies other than those based on the expected oil revenues (whose prices are currently very low) is weakening the country. i think that, even if we can have an opinion on the bolivarian model of development or the policy of chávez, we do not have to interfere in the internal affairs of a state, in particular the union, which is illegitimate here. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is currently experiencing a great period of internal unrest. political instability and rampant crime are contributing to the tensions in this south american country. in addition, oil prices, the main source of income in this state, remain at a historically low level. while international organisations have a role to play in negotiations with the various stakeholders, we believe that other states must respect the principle of non-interference in internal affairs. this also applies to the united states and the european union, which is all the more illegitimate in dealing with this matter. foreign policy remains the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the political, social and economic situation in venezuela has deteriorated considerably in recent times. the country is suffering from a severe recession and a very high inflation rate. some basic commodities are no longer available to all. in addition, respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and the separation of powers is undermined by the venezuelan government. this resolution calls on the european government to accept humanitarian aid to help those in need. the text mentions the importance of cooperation between the european union and venezuela while calling on the government to respect democratic principles. the resolution also calls for the release of all political prisoners. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is a strong message from the european parliament to the venezuelan people.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is going through a serious political and economic crisis. part of a student protest movement, the grumbling turned into a clash between supporters and opponents of president maduro. nearly 2,000 people are now in prison for political reasons, including the former mayor of caracas, antonio ledezma. to make progress towards a settlement of the conflict, it is urgent that the authorities guarantee the security and free exercise of rights of all citizens. social tensions are also caused by an unsustainable economic and social situation. foreign exchange reserves are constantly declining and inflation is the worst in the world; the number of people with disabilities is expected to rise from over 180% last year to 700% in 2016. the country is on the verge of bankruptcy and faces severe food and medicine shortages, raising fears of a humanitarian crisis. the venezuelan authorities must allow humanitarian aid to be delivered and allow international organisations to enter the country to help the most affected sectors of society. the union must continue to cooperate with latin american countries and regional and international organisations to ensure that mechanisms for dialogue, national reconciliation and mediation are put in place.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is currently experiencing a great period of unrest. although president maduro's government has conceded defeat in the last elections, the country is unable to find a modus vivendi between the two major parties. in addition, oil prices remain very low. yet, they account for almost all the country's income. the united states and its colombian and european vassals are attempting to intervene in the conflict in order to overthrow the government. meanwhile, rampant crime continues to wreak havoc. since unasur and the un are currently negotiating between the various parties, the union is totally illegitimate on this subject. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this joint resolution. most of the resolutions are strictly american propaganda. the opinion one may have of the bolivarian model of development is of no importance in the face of the universality of the rule of non-interference in internal affairs. unasur and the un are currently negotiating between the various parties. it is totally illegitimate for the union to interfere in this matter.
in writing. - most of the resolutions are strictly american propaganda. the opinion one may have of the bolivarian model of development is of no importance in the face of the universality of the rule of non-interference in internal affairs. unasur and the un are currently negotiating between the various parties. the union is totally illegitimate in its interference in this matter. it is quite natural that i voted against these resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which expresses concern about the situation in venezuela, as the country, which has been mired in crisis since the fall in oil prices, is on the verge of a social explosion with the incarceration of political prisoners.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it interferes in the internal affairs of a sovereign state while relaying american propaganda about the situation there.
in writing. ‒ the vote will be taken on motions for resolutions on the situation in venezuela. the country is going through a period of political and economic instability, driven by internal and external factors. internally, the government is struggling to find a balance between the two main parties and endemic crime is corrupting the country. the external vectors are the fall in oil prices, which is the main source of the country's wealth, but also the interference of foreign powers (the united states, colombia ...) who are trying to overthrow president maduro. i believe that the principle of non-interference is universal and that no one can judge the development model of a third country, much less intervene in its internal affairs. the union is illegitimate on this issue. that is why i voted against the joint motion for a resolution and those of the ppe, alde, s&d and ecr groups. i abstained on the texts on the gue and the efdd. finally, the greens' proposal is more balanced, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ since the death of president hugo chávez in march 2013, venezuela has been experiencing its worst political and socio-economic crisis. the economic situation in venezuela has deteriorated considerably: inflation at 180%, a decline in gdp of 6 percentage points and a price of oil just above $50 a barrel in 2015. in 2014, according to amnesty international, 43 people were killed and 870 injured in protests. at the political level, the situation is increasingly confused, with president maduro having declared a state of economic emergency and then a state of emergency. i support this resolution which expresses the eu's solidarity with the venezuelan people, calls for the facilitation of a referendum as requested by parliament and condemns the seizure of power by the constitutional court.
in writing. - i voted against the joint resolution. the resolution comes amid the high level of instability in venezuela, which is mainly caused by the fall in oil prices and the rampant crime. we cannot condone interference in the internal politics of a sovereign state, especially since american interventionism is largely responsible for the chaotic situation in that country.
in writing. ‒ the current instability in the country, due to the price of oil, the rivalry between the two main political parties and rampant crime, must not suffer from further interference. in addition, the universality of the rule of non-interference in internal affairs, the fact that the union has no legitimacy in this area and our duty not to blindly relay american propaganda lead me to vote against the resolution.
in writing. - most of the resolutions are strictly american propaganda. the opinion one may have of the bolivarian model of development is of no importance in the face of the universality of the rule of non-interference in internal affairs. unasur and the un are currently negotiating between the various parties. the union is totally illegitimate in its interference in this matter. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in venezuela. the text expresses concern about the current situation of human rights, the state of democracy and respect for the constitution of that country. the report denounces in particular the presence in venezuelan prisons of people detained for political reasons. the resolution calls on the venezuelan authorities to do everything possible to resolve the situation and calls for a european parliament delegation to visit the country.
in writing. - most of the resolutions are strictly american propaganda. the opinion one may have of the bolivarian model of development is of no importance in the face of the universality of the rule of non-interference in internal affairs. unasur and the un are currently negotiating between the various parties. the union is totally illegitimate in its interference in this matter. i vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is currently experiencing an extremely fragile political situation, marked by a permanent conflict between the opposition-controlled parliament and the pro-maduro government, all in a climate of economic collapse linked in particular to the fall in oil prices. it is in this context that i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the government of the country to release all political prisoners, in accordance with its constitution.
in writing. ‒ venezuela has been experiencing a great period of unrest for several months now. although president maduro's government has conceded defeat in the last elections, the country is unable to find a modus vivendi between the two major parties. in addition, there are external factors: oil prices remain very low, although they account for almost all foreign exchange earnings; external powers are intervening in the conflict to overthrow the maduro government. these are the united states and their colombian and european vassals; endemic crime is wreaking havoc used politically by the opposition. most of the resolutions are strictly american propaganda. the opinion one may have of the bolivarian model of development is of no importance in the face of the universality of the rule of non-interference in internal affairs. unasur and the un are currently negotiating between the various parties. the union is totally illegitimate in its interference in this matter. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones, which can cause mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems or cardiovascular disease. they are found in food, for example, from pesticide residues, and in everyday consumer goods. however, under pressure from the world trade organisation and the united states, there is still no legal definition of these substances at european level, as the financial stakes are enormous. the resolution aims to publish the criteria for defining an endocrine disruptor, while the commission keeps postponing the deadline. i voted against this resolution, which is not binding and serves as an alibi for the pro-european parties supporting the commission. i would like to stress that we tabled our own resolution to enable member states to ban products or substances which they consider to be dangerous.
in writing. ‒ by voting for this resolution, i wanted to send a final warning to the european commission by demanding that the criteria for classifying endocrine disruptors be adopted before the summer. we need european legislation against this invisible and permanent threat, which is already affecting human health. these disorders have been increasing markedly in recent decades and are strongly correlated with endocrine disruptors. the european commission has not done its job. the commission did not set out in 2013 the classification criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. it is now urgent that the commission should strengthen the eu's regulations: we must drastically reduce the exposure of the public to endocrine disruptors, especially children and pregnant women. we will also keep a close eye on mergers and acquisitions in the agrochemical sector. on these highly political issues, beyond the responsibility of the competition authorities, we must reject these monopolies which will eventually put world agriculture in the hands of companies which have become more powerful than the states in defining policies for their own benefit.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones and are commonly found in food, plastic products, furniture, toys, construction materials and cosmetics. the effects are many: mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems, and cardiovascular disease. the cost of diseases linked to endocrine disruptors is estimated at between eur 150 and eur 260 billion per year in the union. the enormous trade issues justify threats from the wto and the united states if regulations on endocrine disruptors were to stop european imports. despite its obligation under the biocides regulation, the commission is still delaying the publication of criteria for defining what constitutes an endocrine disruptor. that is why we tabled the motion of censure in may, supported by our group. the pro-eu parties, which did not support censorship, wanted to propose a wise resolution calling for the publication of the criteria and recalling the risk of legal action that parliament may take to the court of justice. this joint resolution is not binding and serves only as an alibi for those who did not support the motion of censure. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which condemns the commission for the delay in publishing the scientific criteria needed to reduce exposure to endocrine disruptors, which are considered by unep and who to be a global threat.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this resolution and debate is to put pressure on the commission to finally propose the criteria for defining what constitutes an endocrine disruptor. they are found in food, furniture, toys, and so on. the effects of these disruptors are manifold: mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems, and cardiovascular disease. in fact, the cost of diseases linked to endocrine disruptors is estimated at between 150 and 260 billion euros a year in the eu! the problem is to demonstrate the indisputable causal link justifying the prohibitions. the commission is still delaying the publication of criteria for defining what constitutes an endocrine disruptor (see the motion of censure in may). the resolution proposed here has no binding force and serves only as an alibi for those who did not support the motion of censure; i voted against.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones and are commonly found in food (e.g. pesticide residues), food contact products, plastic products, furniture, toys, construction materials and cosmetics. we are all exposed at any age to it with disastrous effects on public health. it is therefore essential that the commission finally proposes criteria for defining precisely and legally what endocrine disruptors are. to do so, it will have to resist the threats of the wto and the united states, which fear a slowdown in their exports to the union. the joint resolution under debate is not binding and serves only as an alibi for those who did not support the motion of censure tabled by the enf group. i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones, which can cause mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems or cardiovascular disease. they are found in food, for example, from pesticide residues, as well as in everyday consumer goods. the cost of these endocrine disrupting diseases is estimated at between eur 150 and eur 260 billion per year in the union. however, under pressure from the world trade organisation and the united states, there is still no legal definition of these substances at european level, as the financial stakes are enormous. the resolution aims to publish the criteria for defining an endocrine disruptor, although the commission keeps postponing the deadline. i voted against this resolution, which is not binding and serves as an alibi for the pro-european parties supporting the commission. i would like to stress that we tabled our own resolution to enable member states to ban products or substances which they consider to be dangerous.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that are not present in the body and can have a negative effect on the endocrine system (the hormone system). they are mainly found in water and food, but can also be found in air and in some industrial products. regulation (eu) no 528/2012 on biocidal products provides that the commission is to establish the definition of the criteria for the control of endocrine disruptors. however, the commission has not yet presented this list of criteria, which has been expected since 2013. it has been condemned by the european court of justice for failing to do so. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows a serious failure by the european commission, which should have adopted delegated acts on 13 december 2013 specifying scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. however, no document has been sent to the european parliament to date! the european commission was condemned by the court of justice of the european union, which had been seized by sweden, with the support of france in particular. i therefore supported this report to send a strong signal to the european commission and to condemn its inaction in the face of such a public health emergency. i am very much looking forward to the next presentation of the criteria for defining and identifying endocrine disruptors, which is due to take place in mid-june. i shall be extremely careful in defining these criteria: economic considerations must not take precedence over scientific expertise! it is imperative that substances identified as endocrine disruptors be immediately banned. finally, i would like to remind you that special attention should be paid to the 'cocktail effects': the toxicity of certain molecules can be increased tenfold when taken simultaneously. how vital it is that we keep on the watch!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which calls on the commission to break its silence and tackle a very serious issue in terms of public health. male infertility, early puberty, birth defects, breast cancer and so on. these disorders have been increasing markedly in recent decades and are strongly correlated with endocrine disruptors. that's why we need to drastically reduce the public's exposure to endocrine disruptors, especially children and pregnant women. the commission must be very clear on this. there is an urgent need to legislate and implement the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which is only an alibi for those who did not have the courage to support the motion of censure which pointed the finger at the commission's delay in publishing the criteria for defining endocrine disruptors. these are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones and are commonly found in food (e.g. pesticide residues), food contact products, plastic products, furniture, toys, construction materials and cosmetics. the effects are many: mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems and cardiovascular diseases. the annual cost of these diseases in europe is estimated at several hundred billion euros.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because this resolution is just an alibi for those who did not have the courage to support the motion of censure.
in writing. ‒ the commission has been delaying publication of the criteria for defining endocrine disruptors for a long time, in breach of its obligations. i joined a motion of censure a few days ago which sought to hold the commission accountable for its ineffectiveness in dealing with this important public health issue. some of the signatories of this motion, however, thought it best to withdraw their signatures in order to prevent its discussion. i dare to imagine that their motives were their happy support for brussels europe, their blindness to its inefficiencies and irresponsibilities, their desire not to hurt mr juncker... the other possibility would be much worse. endocrine disruptors, which are chemicals, are found everywhere: in food, food packaging, plastics, toys, cosmetics... european regulations prohibiting products containing such substances would undoubtedly have considerable commercial consequences. the wto and the united states, which are annoyed by the prospect of such a disorderly trade barrier, have been right. in short, the political groups have always agreed on a somewhat lax procedure and a half-baked text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is intended to increase pressure on the commission to finally publish the scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. these chemicals, which are found in all everyday objects, disrupt the hormonal system and pose a real danger to public health. the commission has, however, been dragging its feet for a long time, giving in to the lobby of pesticides and chemicals. in response to pressure from parliament and the court of justice of the european union, the commission has finally committed itself to publishing its definition of endocrine disruptors by mid-june at the latest, so that the most dangerous substances can be banned. i will ensure that this definition is based on real scientific expertise and that, beyond substance-by-substance analysis, it also takes into account the 'cocktail effect' (the consequences of repeated exposure to several endocrine disruptors of different types).
in writing. male infertility, precocious puberty, obesity, diabetes, congenital malformations, breast cancer - most of these diseases are caused by endocrine disruptors that are everywhere around us, in pesticides, cosmetics, packaging, children's toys and even in some medical devices. today, there is still no specific eu legislation on endocrine disruptors, despite the insistence of the european parliament and some member states such as france. this legislation, expected by december 2013, has turned into an assessment by the european commission of the economic impact of the ban on endocrine disruptors on european companies, giving the impression that the economic interests of the chemical industry are put before the general interest of european citizens. it is to recall this priority that i voted for this resolution, which proposes, in particular, that the european parliament reserve the right to bring an action before the court of justice of the european union against the european commission if it does not define its position within the next two months.
in writing. ‒ despite its obligation under the biocides regulation, the commission is still delaying the publication of criteria for defining what constitutes an endocrine disruptor. hence the motion of censure tabled in may. the pro-eu parties, which did not support censorship, wanted to propose a wise resolution calling for the publication of the criteria and recalling the risk of legal proceedings that parliament may bring before the court of justice. of course, this joint resolution is not binding and serves only as an alibi for those who did not support the motion of censure. the enf group has therefore tabled its own resolution which stresses the inefficiency of the commission and calls for member states to be able to ban products they consider to be dangerous themselves. i voted against this resolution because it is only an alibi for those who did not have the courage to support the motion of censure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to keep up the pressure on the european commission, which must publish the criteria for defining and identifying endocrine disruptors in mid-june, which we have been waiting for since the end of 2013. the commission has recently been condemned by the court of justice of the european union, referred to by sweden, for failing to fulfil its obligations in this matter. it is urgent that she act, and this text sends her a strong message to that effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is intended to protest against the commission's refusal to implement the court decision ordering it to define endocrine disruptors. but in reality it is only an alibi for the political groups which have not wanted to support the motion of censure proposed by the enl. only the enl group remained consistent by not participating in this charade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to increase pressure on the european commission to publish scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. these chemicals, which are found in all everyday objects, disrupt the hormonal system and pose a real danger to public health. in response to pressure from parliament and the court of justice of the european union, the commission has finally committed itself to publishing its definition of endocrine disruptors by mid-june at the latest, so that the most dangerous substances can be banned. our concern for the health of our citizens and our vigilance will be at its highest!
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on endocrine disruptors. endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones and are commonly found in food (e.g. pesticide residues), food contact products, plastic products, furniture, toys, construction materials and cosmetics. we are all exposed to it at any age. the potential effects are many: mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems, and cardiovascular disease. there is no legal definition at european level to clearly regulate these products and their circulation. the difficulty is to demonstrate the indisputable causal link justifying the prohibitions. despite its obligation under the biocides regulation, the commission is still delaying the publication of criteria for defining what constitutes an endocrine disruptor. hence the motion of censure tabled in may. the parties which did not support this motion wanted to propose a resolution calling for the publication of the criteria and pointing out the risk of legal proceedings which parliament could bring before the court of justice. of course, this joint resolution is not binding and serves only as an alibi.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that disrupt the action of hormones and are components of many products such as plastic furniture, toys, cosmetics, food containers, etc. all individuals are exposed to endocrine disruptors, including in utero. they are the cause of many diseases like obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease... the cost of treating these diseases in the european union is between 150 and 260 billion euros a year. the public health issues are therefore important. the commission is reluctant to define the term endocrine disruptor clearly, which would allow legislation to be put in place to ban them. this is partly due to pressure on the union from the wto (world trade organisation) and the us, which import a large number of products containing endocrine disruptors each year. the text to be voted on is only a slight reminder to the commission, with little binding force. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. this resolution is an alibi for the pro-eu parties, which did not have the courage to support the motion of censure against the european commission. in this case, the european commission is delaying the publication of the criteria for defining endocrine disruptors, which it is legally obliged to do. these criteria for definition would allow for clear regulation of these chemicals which are common in everyday products and whose adverse effects on human health are now well established (cardiovascular diseases, fertility, etc.). the european parliament's timid reaction can be explained by the trade issues arising from a possible binding regulation on endocrine disruptors: the wto and the united states have already warned the european union of the consequences of such legislation on trade. the europe of nations and freedoms group tabled its own resolution, demanding that member states be able to legislate sovereignly on endocrine disruptors. in any case, we cannot support this resolution, which is another abdication of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ despite the urgent requests that my colleagues and i have made for years, the european commission has still not drawn up european legislation on endocrine disruptors, these molecules present in certain pesticides, cosmetics or children's toys, whose health effects (breast cancer, reduced male fertility, diabetes, etc.) are becoming more and more evident. while it had announced a legislative proposal for december 2013, the commission had finally only carried out an assessment of the economic impact of the ban on endocrine disruptors on european companies! after sweden's action, the court of justice of the european union even condemned the european commission for its inaction. it is in this context that meps decided to table a resolution, which was voted by an overwhelming majority. the committee calls on the commission to put an end to the delay and to adopt as a matter of urgency criteria for the definition of endocrine disruptors, with the ultimate aim of reducing the exposure of citizens to these substances. in the face of welcome political pressure from parliament, the european commission has committed itself to act by mid-june, but our constant vigilance will continue to be necessary.
in writing. ‒ the who defines endocrine disruptors as "an exogenous substance or mixture that alters the functions of the endocrine system and thus induces harmful effects on the health of an intact organism, its descendants or (sub-) populations". these disruptors are considered by who as a global threat due, among other things, to a high and growing number of endocrine disorders. however, the commission has not yet adopted delegated acts to define scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors and thus to prohibit them. these should have been defined more than two and a half years ago! the resolution condemns the commission's failings and notes its commitment to provide scientific criteria for definition by the summer. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ currently, there is no legal definition of endocrine disruptors that would allow the regulation of these products and their circulation. the trade issues are enormous and the pressure from the us and the wto is pushing the commission to postpone the publication of defining criteria constantly. in may, for example, a motion of censure was tabled. the pro-european parties, on the other hand, opted for a resolution, which had no binding force and served only as an alibi for those who did not support the motion of censure. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones and are commonly found in food (e.g. pesticide residues), food contact products, plastic products, furniture, toys, construction materials and cosmetics. the effects are many: mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems, and cardiovascular disease. and the cost of diseases linked to these disruptors is estimated at between 150 and 260 billion euros a year in the eu! the problem is very serious and the economic stakes are enormous. there is no legal definition at european level to regulate products containing endocrine disruptors, and the wto and the us have threatened europe if it limits its imports. in this context, the commission is constantly postponing the definition and a motion of censure was therefore tabled in may. however, the pro-eu parties who did not support the motion preferred to table a non-binding motion for a resolution, despite the urgency of the situation. we therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is just an alibi for those who did not have the courage to support the motion of censure tabled by the enf group. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which is intended to keep up the pressure on the commission, which has been condemned on this issue for failing to fulfil its obligations and which has still not published the criteria for defining and identifying endocrine disruptors when it was supposed to do so in 2013.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is just an alibi for those who did not have the courage to support the motion of censure on the subject that several members, including myself, wanted to table. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which we recalled the inaction of the european commission on the endocrine disruptors issue. the commission was due to publish scientific criteria for identifying chemicals potentially harmful to our hormonal system by the end of 2013, but no text has reached the european parliament, as is normally the case. the european commission has now committed to publishing the definition and criteria for identifying these endocrine disruptors as of the week of 13 june 2016. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the european citizens is protected.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors, which are found in many everyday products, are considered a global threat by unep and who. indeed, exposure to endocrine disruptors has been linked to reproductive system disorders, such as infertility, cancer, and malformations. these substances are also thought to affect thyroid function, brain function, obesity and metabolism, as well as insulin and glucose homeostasis. we have been waiting for more than two and a half years for the commission to fulfil its obligations in this respect, namely to present scientific and objective criteria to better define and understand them, but in vain. the court of justice of the european union has also found it guilty of breach of the rules. i am deeply convinced that we must reduce our exposure to these harmful substances as quickly as possible. the european union has a role to play and the commission would do well to remember this.
in writing. ‒ diseases and disorders such as breast cancer, birth defects, decreased male fertility, premature puberty have been steadily increasing for several years. this may be partly due to endocrine disruptors, which are found in many everyday products: cosmetics, packaging, children's toys. however, despite the european parliament's insistence, there is still no legislation at european level. the commission has transformed this legislation into an economic impact study on the prohibition of endocrine disruptors, which has been expected since 2013, contrary to its commitments. this attitude of the commission led to a condemnation by the court of justice of the european union at the end of 2015. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. we need european legislation against this invisible and permanent threat to our health and to the budgets of our social security systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which urges the commission to publish the scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. this text supports the condemnation of the commission by the court of justice of the european union. since 2013, the european commission has been required to publish these criteria. the commission has failed to fulfil its obligations and it is urgent that it publishes these criteria for defining 'endocrine disruptors' as soon as possible. i supported this text because these chemicals are present in many everyday objects. these disrupt the hormonal system and are therefore a real danger to public health. it should be remembered, however, that the commission has committed itself to publishing these criteria by mid-june so that substances with serious consequences for the endocrine system are banned. in the run-up to this publication, it was nevertheless crucial that parliament reiterate its commitment to protecting the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ parliament called on the european commission to adopt criteria for the classification of endocrine disruptors before the summer. these disruptors are responsible for a number of diseases (low fertility, obesity, diabetes, cancer, etc.). they therefore represent, in addition to a serious public health problem, an annual cost of eur 157 billion (1.23% of gdp) for the union. there is no specific european legislation on endocrine disruptors yet. today the european commission has simply assessed the economic impact of the ban on these disruptors, suggesting that economic interests take precedence over the public interest. the european commission was already condemned for the first time in december 2015 by the court of justice for its inaction. if the commission does not transform the trial by making a legislative proposal, the european parliament will not hesitate to bring an action before the court of justice. the general interest, and here more particularly the health of the european citizens, must and will have to take precedence over the pursuit of economic profit.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are chemicals that interfere with the action of hormones and are commonly found in food (e.g. pesticide residues), food contact products, plastic products, furniture, toys, construction materials and cosmetics. we are all exposed to it at any age, including in utero. the effects are many: mental retardation, obesity, diabetes, reproductive problems, and cardiovascular disease. the cost of diseases linked to endocrine disruptors is estimated at between 150 and 260 billion euros per year in the eu! the trade issues are colossal, "justifying" threats from the wto and the us if regulations on endocrine disruptors were to stop european imports. the pro-eu parties, who did not support the censure motion tabled in may, wanted to propose a resolution calling for the publication of the criteria and recalling the risk of legal action that parliament may bring before the court of justice. of course, this joint resolution is not binding and serves only as an alibi for those who did not support the motion of censure. i therefore vote against this far too timid resolution.
in writing. ‒ according to the united nations environment programme and the world health organization, endocrine disruptors are a global threat. they are found in common products such as pesticides and cosmetics, and they can cause infertility, cancer, obesity, and more. therefore, the biocidal products regulation, which concerns the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, prohibits the approval of active substances containing endocrine disruptors, except in exceptional circumstances. the commission was to adopt delegated acts establishing the scientific criteria for the identification of those substances by 13 december 2013. the deadline is now well past, and this joint resolution is therefore intended to condemn, once again, the commission's inaction on this major public health issue. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies. unsurprisingly, the epp and the ecr took a 'comprehensive' stance towards the commission, stating for example that the identification of scientific criteria was a difficult task. i believe that the commission must urgently adopt the delegated acts that it has now promised for june 2016. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to oppose the decision implementing the authorisation to grow this gmo. while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the industry needs a transition period before its definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is still not advisable in view of the health risks.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal to allow the import and placing on the market in the union of products containing genetically modified maize bt11 × mir162 × mir604 × ga21, or genetically modified maize combining two or three of the events bt11, mir162, mir604 and ga21, and products consisting of or produced from such maize.
in writing. ‒ the marketing authorisation for products and foodstuffs containing this gmo had already been granted, but its cultivation was excluded. in 2013, the applicant company requested the extension of that authorisation to all sub-combinations of the genetic modification. efsa gave a favourable opinion in 2015 assuring the safety of this genetically modified maize. an objection was raised against the implementing decision on the grounds that certain combinations of the genetically modified maize are tolerant to glufosinate (including ammonium salt) and glyphosate-based herbicides. however, some commercial formulations of glyphosate with adjuvants are "probably carcinogenic", according to the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the industry needs a transition period before its definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is still not advisable in view of the health risks. i therefore voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to ban the import and placing on the market of herbicide-resistant maize. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns an objection under article 106 to the authorisation of gmo maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21. the authorisation to place on the market products and foodstuffs containing this gmo had already been granted. however, this authorisation excluded the cultivation of this gmo. this objection to the decision is based on the idea that the decision exceeds the commission's powers under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. overall, while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the sector needs a transition period before its definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is not advisable in view of the health risks. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the objection to the decision to apply the authorisation is based on the argument that the decision exceeds the commission's powers under regulation 1829/2003. in any case, i am not in favour of the placing on the market of products and foodstuffs containing gmos, the absence of which has yet to be demonstrated as having any effect on public health. i voted for that objection.
in writing. ‒ the object of the objection is to oppose the decision implementing the authorisation to cultivate this gmo. as a reminder, until 2013, only the marketing of products or foodstuffs containing this gmo was allowed. the applicant company has since submitted an application to extend that authorisation to all sub-combinations of the genetic modification, to which the european food safety authority has given a favourable response. however, it turns out that these sub-combinations are tolerant to glufosinate as well as glyphosate-based herbicides, some of whose commercial formulations are likely to be carcinogenic according to the international cancer research center. while the use of glyphosate should be provisionally tolerated in order to allow industry to have a transitional period before its definitive ban, the cultivation of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is not advisable. that is why i voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the gmo seed growers have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorisations for the use of genetically modified soybeans tolerant of glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who). in future, the authorization process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is not advisable in view of the risks to public health. for this reason, on wednesday 8 june, i voted in favour of this objection that the authorisation decision exceeds the commission's powers under regulation 1829/2003.
in writing. - i voted yes. while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the industry needs a transition period before its definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is still not advisable in view of the health risks.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection, which aims to ban the marketing of a gmo maize in europe. the authorisation of this gmo was established following a scientific opinion from the european food safety authority and did not pose any risk to public health. the member states also have the final say on the authorisation of gmos to be grown on their territory, and it is up to them to decide whether or not they want gmos to be used in their agriculture. i regret that the greens are systematically using the european parliament's power of objection to dogmatize the precautionary principle, whose abuse is a hindrance to progress and innovation.
in writing. ‒ the marketing authorisation for products and foodstuffs containing this gmo had already been granted. however, this authorisation excluded the cultivation of this gmo. the objection to the decision to apply the authorisation is based on the argument that the decision exceeds the commission's powers under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. in particular, it is claimed that certain combinations of gm maize are tolerant to glufosinate (including ammonium salt) and glyphosate-based herbicides. however, some commercial formulations of glyphosate with adjuvants are "probably carcinogenic", according to the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the industry needs a transition period before its definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is still not advisable in view of the health risks. i was logically in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the authorisation of this gmo maize because i am suspicious of gmos in the current state of scientific research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106: authorisation of gmo maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21. the authorisation for the placing on the market of foodstuffs containing this gmo had already been granted. however, this authorisation excluded the cultivation of this gmo. in 2013, the applicant company requested the extension of that authorisation to all sub-combinations of the genetic modification. efsa gave a favourable opinion in 2015 assuring the safety of this genetically modified maize. the objection is based on the argument that the decision exceeds the commission's powers under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. in particular, it is claimed that certain combinations of gm maize are tolerant to glufosinate and glyphosate-based herbicides. however, some commercial formulations of glyphosate with adjuvants are "probably carcinogenic", according to the international agency for research on cancer. while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the sector needs a transition period before its definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is still not advisable in view of the health risks.
in writing. ‒ the text in question opposes the commission's decision to extend the authorisation to cultivate the gmo bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21. indeed, developing this type of gmo that can resist glyphosate poses a health risk. combined with commercial glyphosate formulations, it poses a carcinogenic risk according to the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). products and food containing that maize may be placed on the market, but it is not desirable to allow its cultivation. i therefore voted in favour of rejecting the text, which seeks to extend the authorization to culture.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. this authorization is only an extension of a marketing authorization already granted. the extension request received a favourable opinion from efsa in 2015. however, it appears that some combinations of this genetically modified maize are tolerant of glyphosate and glufosinate. the absence of an alternative solution requires at least a transitional period before a possible ban on glyphosate. however, its health risks have now been established and the introduction of a resistant gmo does not appear desirable for this reason.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns the opposition to the commission's decision to authorise the marketing in the eu of genetically modified maize. the gm maize examined here has been modified to tolerate glufosinate-ammonium herbicides. this has the effect of allowing greater use of these herbicides at all stages of the plant, thus increasing the risks of residues in human food. this maize has been approved by the efsa, a control body which has already shown its incompetence and its submission to lobbyists. i am voting for this text which opposes this authorization.
in writing. ‒ while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the sector needs a transition period before a definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is still not advisable in view of the health risks. that is why i voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ this objection follows the decision to allow the cultivation of gm maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21. even if we tolerate the use of glyphosate as part of a transition towards its substitution, we consider that the health risks associated with the development of herbicide-resistant gmos, suspected by the international agency for research on cancer to be carcinogenic, are too high. we therefore support this objection.
in writing. ‒ the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is not advisable in view of the health risks. i vote in favour of that objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the authorisation of gmo maize, the placing or not placing on the market of which is a matter for the member states, because it is based on the false argument that the commission exceeded its powers by authorising this maize. the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. it then proposed this authorisation of gmos to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. ‒ the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is not advisable in view of the health risks. it would be better to do without glyphosate and develop alternatives to these products whose harmfulness is being demonstrated more and more. i vote in favour of that objection.
in writing. ‒ i must stress that i am generally sceptical about the issue of genetically modified organisms. that's true of the material in question. however, in this particular case, i accepted the commission's argument and supported its position.
in writing. ‒ i once again opposed the current authorisation process for gmos in the eu by supporting the objection to the marketing of new varieties of genetically modified maize. the aim is to send a clear message to the commission to review this undemocratic system, since each authorisation decision is adopted by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of member states and without regard to the opinion of our assembly. moreover, the precautionary principle is justified here because the maize in question is tolerant of herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance which i think should be banned as soon as possible. more generally, it is time for europe to promote the sustainable use of herbicides. we were told that gmos would allow us to be more efficient and use less products, but the opposite is true: many gm seeds are now sold with their herbicide, leading to increased spraying of herbicides and, de facto, increased resistance of weeds to these substances. it is time to end this vicious cycle and find more environmentally and health-friendly alternatives.
in writing. ‒ the marketing authorisation for products and foodstuffs containing this gmo had already been granted. however, this authorisation excluded the cultivation of this gmo. in 2013, the applicant company requested the extension of this authorisation to all sub-combinations of the genetic modification. efsa gave a favourable opinion in 2015 confirming the safety of this genetically modified maize. in particular, the objection alleges that certain combinations of genetically modified maize are tolerant to glufosinate (and its ammonium salt) and glyphosate-based herbicides. however, some commercial formulations of glyphosate that contain adjuvants are "probably carcinogenic", according to the international agency for research on cancer (iarc). while the use of glyphosate can be tolerated as there are not enough commercial alternatives for farmers and the sector needs a transition period before its definitive ban, the development of a glyphosate-resistant gmo is still not advisable in view of the health risks. i therefore vote in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to allow the import and placing on the european market of gm maize and maize. the european parliament has proposed two resolutions to oppose these authorisations. the commission is proposing to authorise maize resistant to glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a probable carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer. the import of such genetically modified maize would then be tantamount to encouraging the use of a product which is dangerous to health. the gm carnations are resistant to sulphonylureas, herbicides that are toxic to plants and therefore pose a risk to biodiversity when they are widely distributed. in addition, some populations consume carnation petals voluntarily and efsa has not yet assessed the health consequences of the consumption of genetically modified carnations. finally, the authorisation of gmos divides the member states, which cannot reach agreement by qualified majority. the parliament therefore considers that the commission exceeded its implementing powers by proposing the authorisation of these gmos. i agree with and strongly oppose most gmos. i therefore voted in favour of these resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to oppose the decision implementing the marketing authorisation for genetically modified eyelets covering the import, distribution and retail sale of this flower. however, the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded on the basis of two scientific opinions that the use of this carnation posed no danger to human health or the environment. however, it turns out that the development of this plant is conditioned by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides, the use of which is harmful to the environment. in addition, the risks associated with the dissemination of pollen from this plant were not taken into account in the efsa report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the european commission's implementing act proposing to allow the import and sale in the european union of cut-up shd-27531-4 gmo decorative eyelets resistant to sulphonylurea herbicides. sulfonylureas, which are a common second-line option against type 2 diabetes, are also used as a herbicide, are highly toxic to plants at very low doses. thus, the creation of a market for sulphonylurea-resistant plants will encourage the use of this diabetes drug as a global herbicide, at the risk of a global negative impact on biodiversity and chemical contamination of drinking water.
in writing. ‒ in march 2013, the notification of the application for placing on the market in the netherlands of a genetically modified carnation was sent to the competent authority of the netherlands. this application covers the import, distribution and sale of cut flowers of this carnation for decorative use. some member states, such as cyprus, opposed this placing on the market. efsa then produced two scientific opinions concluding that there was no scientific reason to consider that the use of this carnation could have any negative effects on human health or the environment. meps objected to this decision on the grounds that the objectives of protecting the environment and human health were not met. the risk is thought to be related to the intentional consumption of these gmos, which has not been assessed by efsa. the dispersal of pollen from this plant should be considered. furthermore, according to efsa, plants of shd-27531-4 that would grow in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by being exposed to sulphonylurea-based herbicides, the use of which would have negative consequences on the development of other plants. i supported this objection because i was concerned about the health of my fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to ban the import and placing on the market of a herbicide-resistant carnation. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ this resolution also concerns an objection under article 106 concerning the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4). in march 2013, the notification of the application for the placing on the market in the netherlands of a genetically modified carnation was sent to the competent authority of the netherlands. this application covers the import, distribution and retail of cut flowers of this carnation for decorative use only. some member states opposed this placing on the market, but after two efsa studies showed no risk, the commission decided to authorise it. the objection is further based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protection of the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec. i have therefore decided to support the objection in view of the remaining doubts and risks.
in writing. ‒ the objection raised by some members against this act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protecting the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec. the risk is allegedly linked to the consumption of these gmo products, which has not been assessed by efsa. the dispersal of pollen from this plant should be considered. furthermore, according to efsa, plants of shd-27531-4 that would grow in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by being exposed to sulphonylurea-based herbicides. however, the use of this type of herbicide could have negative consequences on the development of other plants. i am in favour of the precautionary principle in relation to gmos and therefore voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ the object of this objection is to oppose the decision implementing the marketing authorisation for genetically modified carnations covering the import, distribution and retail sale of this flower. however, the european food safety authority (efsa) concluded on the basis of two scientific opinions that the use of this carnation posed no danger to human health or the environment. however, it turns out that the development of this plant is conditioned by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides, the use of which is harmful to the environment. in addition, the risks associated with the dissemination of pollen from this plant were not taken into account in the efsa report. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed companies that hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorizations for the use of a genetically modified carnation. in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has authorised the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation, but some meps objected to this on the grounds that the act exceeds the commission's powers by not meeting the objectives of protecting the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec. the risk is thought to be linked to the intentional consumption of these gmos which has not been assessed by efsa. the dispersal of pollen from this plant should be considered. i therefore voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: according to efsa, shd-27531-4 plants that develop in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to prohibit the marketing of flowers from a genetically modified carnation for ornamental purposes. the marketing authorisation for this gmo, which was established following a scientific opinion from the european food safety authority, posed no risk to public health or the environment. i regret that the greens are systematically using the european parliament's power of objection to dogmatize the precautionary principle, whose misuse is a hindrance to progress and innovation.
in writing. ‒ in march 2013, the notification of the application for placing on the market in the netherlands of a genetically modified carnation was sent to the competent authority of the netherlands. this application covers the import, distribution and retail of cut flowers of this carnation for decorative use only. the objection raised by some members against this act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protection of the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec. the risk is thought to be related to the intentional consumption of these gmos, which has not been assessed by efsa. the dispersal of pollen from this plant should be considered. in addition, according to efsa, shd-27531-4 plants that would develop in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides. however, the use of this type of herbicide could have negative consequences on the development of other plants. i voted for the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the authorisation of this gmo carnation because i am suspicious of gmos in the current state of scientific research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under rule 106: the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4). in march 2013, the notification of the application for the placing on the market in the netherlands of a genetically modified carnation was sent to the competent authority of the netherlands. this application covers the import, distribution and retail of cut flowers of this carnation for decorative use. however, some member states, such as cyprus, are opposed to such a placing on the market. efsa then produced two scientific opinions concluding that there was no scientific reason to consider that the use of this carnation could have any negative effects on human health or the environment. the european commission has therefore planned a decision implementing the authorisation. the objection against the act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by not meeting the objectives of protection of the environment and human health as defined by directive 2001/18/ec. the risk is thought to be linked to the intentional consumption of these gmos which has not been assessed by efsa. the dispersal of pollen from this plant should be considered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection tabled by some meps to have the authorisation, granted in march 2013, to place a genetically modified carnation on the dutch market annulled. several arguments seem to point to the danger of this gmo for human health and the environment. firstly, there is a risk that this product will be consumed, because of the release of pollen from this flower into the environment. secondly, the modification of this plant is intended for a single sulphonylurea herbicide which may have negative consequences on the development of other plants. finally, on the legislative side, the european commission is overstepping its bounds by authorizing such a product.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the resolution follows the objection raised by some member states, such as cyprus, to the netherlands' placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation. efsa has, however, issued two opinions noting any health risk from this carnation, in particular due to the spread of pollen. the european commission followed efsa's lead by issuing an authorisation decision. however, the use of a harmful herbicide, which is necessary for the cultivation of this carnation, is one of the elements which has not been taken into account. some meps argue that the commission has exceeded its powers. in addition, environmental protection objectives were not met.
in writing. ‒ the resolution opposes the commission's implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation. the transgenic carnation contains the surb (als) gene, which gives it resistance to sulphonylureas. sulphonylurea pesticides are considered to have "destructive effects on the productivity of non-target crops and on the composition of plant and wildlife food chains". in addition, efsa has not assessed the possible consequences of the intentional consumption of gm carnations by humans and animals, nor the propagation by rooting and the spread of pollen of this gmo to wild species. i am voting for this text which opposes gmos.
in writing. ‒ some member states have opposed the placing on the market of genetically modified eggs. the commission has provided for a decision implementing the authorisation. the objection against the act is based on the argument that the act exceeds the powers of the commission by failing to meet the objectives of protecting the environment and human health. that is why i voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ we supported this objection against a commission decision authorising the placing on the market of this genetically modified carnation for decorative use. following the refusal of some eu member states to place carnations on the market, efsa (european food safety authority) published two scientific opinions refuting the existence of a risk to health and the environment, which served as the basis for the european commission to impose its decision. this is an act which exceeds the commission's powers in terms of protecting the environment and human health, because the risks are in the consumption of this carnation and in the spread of pollen, which has not been assessed.
in writing. ‒ the use of this type of herbicide could have negative consequences on the development of other plants. i vote in favour of that objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the authorisation of a genetically modified carnation, the placing or not placing on the market of which is a matter for the member states, which is based on the false argument that the commission exceeded its powers by authorising this carnation. the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. it then proposed this authorisation of gmos to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. ‒ the development of genetically modified plants to resist herbicides is the worst way to make crops evolve. on the contrary, priority should be given to sustainable and environmentally friendly techniques. i therefore vote in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of this gmo carnation.
in writing. ‒ i must say that i am generally rather sceptical about the question of genetically modified organisms and their use. this is logically true of the material under consideration. in this particular case, however, i accepted the commission's argument and voted in favour of its action.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection to the placing on the market of the genetically modified carnation dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4. rejecting the new marketing authorisations for gmos is a way for our parliament to send a clear message to the european commission to review the current authorisation process for gmos. this is not a satisfactory and democratic process, since every authorization decision has been taken by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of the member states and without the opinion of this house. i would also like to point out that public opinion remains negative towards gmos. finally, efsa has not assessed the possible consequences of the intentional consumption of genetically modified carnations by humans.
in writing. ‒ in march 2013, the notification of the application for placing on the market in the netherlands of a genetically modified carnation was sent to the competent authority of the netherlands. this application covers the import, distribution and retail of cut flowers of this carnation for purely decorative use. however, some member states, such as cyprus, are opposed to such a placing on the market. efsa then produced two scientific opinions concluding that there was no scientific reason to consider that the use of this carnation could have any adverse effects on human health or the environment. the objection raised by some meps is based on the argument that the risk is linked to the intentional consumption of these gmo products, which has not been assessed by efsa. the dispersal of pollen from this plant should be considered. in addition, according to efsa, plants of shd-27531-4 that would grow in the environment could only express their improved characteristics by exposure to sulphonylurea-based herbicides. however, the use of such herbicides could have negative consequences on the development of other plants. i therefore vote in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to allow the import and placing on the european market of gm carnations and maize. the european parliament has proposed two resolutions to oppose these authorizations. the commission is proposing to authorise maize resistant to glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a probable carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer. the import of such genetically modified maize would then be tantamount to encouraging the use of a product which is dangerous to health. the gm carnations are resistant to sulphonylureas, herbicides that are toxic to plants and therefore pose a risk to biodiversity when widely distributed. in addition, some populations consume carnation petals voluntarily and efsa has not yet assessed the health consequences of the consumption of genetically modified carnations. finally, the authorisation of gmos divides the member states, which cannot reach agreement by qualified majority. parliament therefore considers that the commission has exceeded its implementing powers by proposing the authorisation of these gmos. i agree with and strongly oppose most gmos. i therefore voted in favour of these resolutions.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find it difficult to see the real added value of this text, particularly in view of the many conventions applicable in this field. i also do not see the point in these multilingual forms, which are presented as the centrepiece of this text and which, fortunately, have no independent legal value, much to the regret of the rapporteur. the council has greatly reduced the anxieties of parliament, which, in order to keep its head, clings to revision clauses which envisage the extension of the scope of the administrative simplifications to come. in the meantime, far from making the task of the administrations easier and fighting fraud, this text will increase their burden even more, while some of them are suffering the full effects of the austerity imposed by the european union. at a time when we are witnessing day by day that schengen is a dangerous and irresponsible instrument, at a time when european nations are facing an unprecedented migration challenge, the european union is once again showing its keen sense of propriety by producing yet another gadget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now at the end of the fourth reform of the court of justice, the abolition of the civil service tribunal. this, like the increase in the number of judges at the court, was carried out in a scandalous and irresponsible manner. no in-depth analysis of article 257 tfeu as a legal basis for its deletion, no analysis of its impact, costs or consequences for other jurisdictions has been carried out. i kept reminding him in committee. the european union is not sparing in spending on the backs of european taxpayers, while austerity is falling on national jurisdictions. we knew the union's contempt for the peoples of europe, we could see it in its own judges and officials, who were not consulted. keep it up: every day our compatriots discover more and more the true face of the european union. remember, the important thing is not the fall but the landing. yours will be painful. the springtime of the european peoples is approaching.
for the greens/efa group madam president, improving the exchange of data is an essential element in order to better combat terrorism. the transnational dimension of the most serious crimes requires greater cooperation in this area and more effective use of european databases, while ensuring respect for fundamental rights, in particular in the area of data protection. in this respect, the principle of purpose limitation is very important: a database which is used for a specific purpose should not suddenly be used for other purposes. for example, the schengen information system contains data on innocent persons, such as missing persons, which should not be interconnected with databases related to terrorism, as there is no link between the two. if we are to move towards greater interoperability of european databases, it is essential to also provide for a harmonised data protection framework. the two are and must be linked. this is necessary to avoid fragmentation, because the new directive on data protection in the police field does not cover the databases in question here, such as the schengen information system. the establishment of a common set of data protection rules must therefore be an integral part of this path towards greater interoperability. it is a question of the coherence and efficiency of our system, and above all of the protection of our fundamental rights.
madam president, i see that the british flags are being removed from our chamber right now, and i would like to know whether the presidency has had a preview of the results of the brexit referendum, which means that this symbol is being removed from our colleagues in the far right who are always wearing their british flag.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, more and more, mr erdoğan, and until when? after the blackmail on the migrants, here is the new coup d'état of erdoğan. the trick is clear: suppress his opposition. a century after the armenian and syrian genocides, nothing new, unfortunately, on this side of europe. a century after the armenian and syrian genocides, turkey is once again a threat to europe. our europe of nations group has put you in front of your responsibilities. what are you waiting for, ladies and gentlemen, to ask, as we do, for the end of the accession negotiations with turkey? do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that the dictatorship of erdoğan is a model compatible with our european values?
mr president, yesterday, 7 june 2016, exactly one year to the day after the parliamentary elections, recep erdoğan published the constitutional amendment allowing the lifting of the collective parliamentary immunity of 138 of the 150 members of the grand national assembly of turkey. among them, 53 of the 59 hdp mps. mr. erdoğan likes the symbols. he wants to show he's got things under control, but at what cost? we no longer count the authoritarian excesses of this regime. a lot has already been said, but i think a new red line has been crossed: the democratic principles which a candidate country for membership of the european union must respect no longer seem to be a concern of the turkish president. in 1995, we awarded the sakharov prize to leyla zana. today, she and other hdp mps are at risk of being imprisoned again. their crime is to say what they think, because it is their freedom of speech that is in question. as parliamentarians, we cannot remain silent. i would like to make a solemn appeal here for your solidarity so that we can sponsor these individual members of parliament. i believe that in this way, beyond words, we will be making a strong political gesture, in line with the values we want to defend.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, minister, i hope that the european employees have not watched your speech, minister, because i think there would be a little more euroscepticism and eurocriticism in european society. as mr caspary has repeated, the european parliament has done its job to protect a number of sectors which are essential to the viability of the european economy and to employment in europe. the same year, in 2013, this parliament fought to protect the photovoltaic industry against chinese dumping, and it was not the commission that was guilty, it was the member states that, based on their purely national interests, refused to protect the european photovoltaic industry. same with the steel industry. europe is not just a market. europe must not be dogmatic in its views on liberalism and free trade. europe must also protect its producers and if we want to develop industry again, protect our workers, and have a fair and regulated international trade, we must have trade defence instruments. we need not just a free trade policy - that is what we are fighting against - we need a strategy, we need a trade diplomacy which enables us to defend ourselves and which gives the european union legitimacy vis-à-vis our fellow citizens. that is not at all what you did today, minister. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer is "blue cardboard". the moment you don't protect the industry, the worst always happens. i am in favour of strong european standards in social and environmental matters, which also encourage innovation and prevent relocation. but the moment we allow countries to subsidize their industry explicitly to kill our own industries in europe, we abandon these sectors, which end up either collapsing or being relocated. so, yes, but we absolutely need europe to do that, because every country, against russia, against china or against anyone, will never hold the line.
mr president, there is a surreal side to this debate when you hear the council. my colleagues said so and they are absolutely right. firstly, this is not a technical issue, it is a highly political one, and i would like to remind the council and the commission that our task as european institutions is to defend the interests of europeans and european producers. that's why we're here, it's not like that, in the air. that's the first point. secondly, we must stop being naive: all the great countries of the world are organizing, all the great countries of the world are capable of defending the interests of those who live on their territory. we are completely naive, especially towards the americans. it is important to know that when we europeans apply additional customs duties to protect ourselves against dumping, we go up to some 20%, whereas the americans sometimes go up to 200%. i would also remind you that the us secretary of state for foreign trade decided in may to impose additional duties of 451% to protect americans from chinese steel. that is what we must do and i do not see why we should be the only bloc in the world not to do it. you mentioned china, you said it was status-related. i think that we are not going to reopen the debate on china now, that it would be a serious mistake to grant china the status of a market economy, and i also tell you that our fellow citizens do not want that. china is not a market economy and i would like to see at least some political will expressed by the council in this respect and, above all, unity and union in the council on this issue, which is vital. two more words, and you need consistency. yannick jadot was talking earlier about photovoltaic panels; when we were fighting to ban them here, the eib was financing solar panels in china. finally, we must one day decide to have a real european industrial strategy to safeguard our interests here too.
mr president, what has always been developed in the european institutions - and this is what is in the treaties - is the theory of full free trade versus cooperation. it is therefore good that we finally have a debate on new border protection mechanisms to protect employment, a high level of social protection, the environment and the territories. but i am very much afraid that our debate will be a sham, given the number of free trade agreements and the fact that mr juncker wants to get the treaty with canada adopted without even consulting national parliaments and is pursuing this negotiation for the large transatlantic market. so yes to anti-dumping duties at the frontiers, which should be decided in conjunction with trade unions and consumer associations, yes to community protections, but no to the free trade agreement with canada and the transatlantic treaty.
mr president, mr minister, i am, like a number of my colleagues, puzzled by your statement. for 20 years our trade defence instruments have remained unchanged, while the economic and trade situation in the european union has been constantly evolving. unfair practices in certain third countries are increasing and undermining our competitiveness, especially that of our smes, and employment in europe. the current debate on china's market economy status demonstrates the urgency and need for the union to have strong and robust instruments. it is time to modernise our trade defence instruments and this is not protectionism. at a time when europe is trying to revive growth, the union must speak with one voice and the council must unblock the dossier as soon as possible, or it would be irresponsible.
mr president, in trade matters, all the continents, all the big countries are protecting themselves and we, the european union, give the impression of being in a hurry, of procrastinating, even if we have to watch - a little like you, the council representative - with arms outstretched, as european industry collapses. but it's not helplessness, it's the choice of inaction. it is not a question of means, it is a question of political will. yes or no, do we want europe to defend itself? we want to do so and we can, because the reality - as mr bernd lange has pointed out - is that there are very concrete proposals: we are increasing the anti-dumping arrangements, we are returning to the rule of the lesser duty, we are shortening the time limits for proceedings, we are extending the scope of the complaint to smes, to the trade unions who can directly refer the matter to the commission, even if the commission itself is relying on itself on these matters. in short, we can do it, we must do it and it's time to do it! otherwise, as has just been said, you will be taking responsibility for ensuring that europe does not appear to be defending itself in the eyes of all europeans. that would be a real shame for the european project that we all support.
in writing. in november 2015, the japanese fisheries agency informed the international whaling commission that it would resume whaling under a 12-year plan. the plan calls for the killing of 333 minke whales during the 2015-2016 season and approximately 4,000 whales over the duration of the plan. the questions call for stronger condemnation of japan and enforcement of the icj ruling of 31 march 2014 ordering japan to stop the annual slaughter of whales in the antarctic ocean. this shameful slaughter is contrary to the eu's animal welfare recommendations and in particular also to article 13 of the feu treaty. furthermore, there is evidence that this is not related to scientific needs. whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity because some whale species are in danger of extinction. however, we must also address the problem of plastic waste ingestion by whales, which causes massive strandings.
in writing. in november 2015, japanese authorities announced a new whaling plan. this plan covers a total of approximately 4 000 whales, including 333 minke whales, during the 2015-2016 season. this resumption of whaling is very bad news for the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems. it is also a flagrant violation of international law, including the march 31, 2014 ruling by the international court of justice ordering japan to stop the slaughter of whales in the antarctic ocean. the japanese authorities claim that this fishery is carried out for scientific research purposes. that justification is not credible. the judgment of the international court of justice is very clear in this respect. the european union must use its full weight to put pressure on japan. whaling must be fought. this is an old practice which is not in line with the principles which the union defends in its waters and in international waters. i therefore call on the european commission, on behalf of the committee on fisheries of the european parliament, to use all possible means of pressure, including legal proceedings.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the european union is a sprawling administration populated by innumerable institutions, agencies, bodies and agencies of various kinds which take administrative decisions. each element of this kafkaesque system is governed by its own rules. this lack of coherence generates a lack of transparency on the guarantees enjoyed by the beneficiaries. it is likely to encourage the abuse of power. that is why i support the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs hautala. the aim of this proposal is to codify and standardize the administrative procedure applicable to all the union's bodies. it thus clarifies the rights of the persons concerned, for example by specifying that each individual has the right to be heard before an individual decision is taken. i regret that the commission in brussels has rejected this interesting proposal. however, i am not surprised, because i have long known that this oligarchic areopagus is fond of opacity.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, first of all, i am disappointed that the commissioner responsible for industry is not on the bench of the european commissioners this morning for a debate which is absolutely essential as it deals with the strategic area for the european union which is the railway industry. almost 400 000 jobs are involved, 1 200 000 indirectly, in this absolutely strategic industry and the commissioner is not here... it had already announced its absence on 22 april in warsaw, where it was also not present, despite the fact that it was its country, at a strategic meeting also, which brought together the friends of industry in warsaw in the presence of the ministers responsible for this sector. i have, of course, listened to you very carefully, commissioner. the groups here, and i welcome the work of martina werner as rapporteur on this subject, have worked together a lot and have found compromise agreements. we are asking you an oral question and i think you are extremely light on the unfair competition facing our railway industry in relation to china. today, china's rail industry is entirely funded by public money. when china produces 200 high-speed trains a year, alstom in france produces 13. therefore, we can see that china is now easily entering the european market, but we are having a very difficult time having the same competition, and unfair competition is now a big issue for the european union's rail industry.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, with 46% of the innovation market at the forefront, as has been said, europe is still the world leader for the time being, but for how long? the challenges we face are well known: - stagnation, or even decline, of rail compared to other modes of transport; - and i think that unfortunately the political pillar of the fourth railway package will not fix things; - the need for a common transport policy, which is not only a matter of the railways, but also of the transport sector, is a matter of the transport sector. - weakness of public procurement; - difficulties in accessing research funding for smes; - the rise of third countries mrs morano reiterated how china was in a situation which should worry us. in this context, therefore, it is necessary to make every effort to revitalise this sector through investment, for example, but not exclusively, through the juncker plan. it is also desirable to create a regulatory environment favourable to such investments: defragmentation of the internal market, practical implementation of the agreement reached at cop 21 and, perhaps, also a review of the rules governing the award of public contracts. it is also necessary to stimulate the participation of smes in the european research programme; my colleagues have already mentioned the difficulties of shift 2 rail. commissioner, i congratulate you on the launch of shift 2 rail. it took a year to put the first call for proposals through, which is a scandal, and now we are, in fact, more than 18 months behind schedule. finally, the principle of reciprocity with third countries must be fully respected. of course, japan, china, korea and the united states are still in a situation where their markets are closed to us, while they are making great efforts to penetrate ours. the companies concerned must jointly take their full part in this global struggle. i personally support the airbus railway, the restructuring of industry and the major european manufacturers and, as such, permission for the commission to allow the emergence of major european champions against world champions by reducing its right to compete.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, our colleague werner's report deals with a key sector of industry in our countries, in france and in europe, namely the railway. this sector, which is essential for employment, is in difficulty because of the destruction of a public monopoly in our countries. you want to open up our public sectors to all the winds of globalisation in free and undistorted competition. however, canada, south korea and, tomorrow, china, which have retained their public service, will win markets on our continent in the name of this competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in addition, your policy of unilateral sanctions against russia is putting railway projects at risk which could be profitable for european companies. finally, the promotion of the shift 2 rail organisation in this motion is against railway europe, because in this group of so-called european industrialists we find bombardier, a canadian industrialist, which is the main competitor of our european champions siemens and alstom on world markets. who are we kidding? only a synergy between railway equipment manufacturers and national european operators will make it possible to offer future customers competitive railway projects, and you are destroying this synergy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer is "blue cardboard". no, sir, there is no question of putting european companies in competition. it is simply a question of highlighting and favouring european companies such as alstom and siemens. that's all i'm saying. that's the only point i made in my speech.
madam president, railway equipment is a vital sector of industry in france and europe. this sector is in difficulty because of the destruction of a public monopoly which exists in our countries. the european union wants to open up the public sector to all the winds of globalisation in the name of allegedly free and undistorted competition. the result is that canada, china and south korea will take advantage of this to gain market access on our continent while denying our companies access to their market. our european champions siemens and alstom will therefore be penalized. if we want to develop our railway industries, we must adopt a voluntary policy and not rely on the market alone. unlike the ultra-liberal laissez-faire of the union, we must create synergy between railway equipment manufacturers and european national operators in order to offer our future customers competitive railway projects. hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake. it is urgent to open our eyes if we are to save them, but i know that the union will be unable to do so.
madam president, the european rail industry is a world leader. it represents 46% of the market and 400 000 direct jobs in europe. but as we speak of rail and rolling stock, it must be said that the time has come to sound the alarm. our position is threatened. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure. this penetration already concerns european lines such as the belgrade-budapest line, for which the conditions for the award of public contracts have been more than opaque. martina werner's work is therefore timely in that it shakes up the coconut tree and lays out a series of ideas which, taken together, form a genuine industrial sector policy. an industrial policy which, incidentally, has been absent from the european radar for a long time in this sector and others, for example in research and development, the shift 2 rail joint venture, standardization, competition policy, etc. but the commission must also take these ideas on board, encourage an industrial policy, defend it and defend a sector which is vital to our economy and our jobs. where is the commissioner to defend this sector, which is so important for our economy?
author. madam president, this is the third resolution on cambodia in less than a year. the country has been in political crisis since july 2013 and repression is worsening, including now against trade union organizations. but if there is a fundamental issue in cambodia, it is land grabbing and related crimes, which are now the subject of a complaint before the international criminal court. more than 800,000 victims since 2000, and at least 60,000 more in the first half of 2015 alone. on this issue, our resolution is very weak and does not in any way call into question the primary responsibility of multinational companies, including european ones, in the textile and sugar sectors, where working conditions, especially for women and children, are particularly alarming. if we want to improve the human rights situation in cambodia, we must act and demand that the victims be compensated, but also that the 'everything but arms' agreement be revised so that the european union and its member states no longer import products resulting from the exploitation and expropriation of cambodian peasants. the un is working right now on corporate responsibility. commissioner, please, i am speaking to you. it is good to have a commission representative, but it is even better when he listens to us. thank you, commissioner. the un is working right now on corporate responsibility, with the establishment of a legal instrument. it is time for the european union and its member states to take action on this issue. i look forward to your answer on this, please.
the question is "blue cardboard". i will always agree with you, mr president, that we must defend freedom, and especially freedom of conscience, including, of course, freedom of religion, since this idea was born in my country and is called secularism. now, sir, i ask you if you would say the same thing about freedom of worship in qatar, saudi arabia, bahrain or other countries we never hear about here, whereas it is enough for a country to have a single communist or leftist minister for us to hear, for hours, all kinds of protests, which are sometimes justified, it must be admitted, and sometimes not at all, except through propaganda efforts.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, everyone here is alarmed by the massive violations of basic human rights in vietnam. it must not be forgotten that vietnam is politically a communist regime. communism has killed over 100 million people worldwide in the last century. many european political parties and other intellectuals supported the viet minh in its time. by preparing to vote in favour of the transatlantic treaty, which is part of the international trade matrix sought by the united states, you are de facto accepting the trans-pacific partnership, of which washington has made the vietnamese regime one of the main pillars. the vietnamese communist regime, legitimized by its economic partnerships with the european union and the united states, can thus continue its numerous human rights abuses without any problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. our group would have liked to go further, to extend the scope of this text and to abolish these administrative formalities even further. but it is clear that the member states are still too attached to their national procedures and continue to distrust each other. we hope, however, that this regulation will help to restore confidence between member states, so as to further reduce the administrative burden on european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal and therefore for the amendment rejecting this report: in view of the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real interest of this text and what would help to combat existing fraud. this is yet another gadget that will add to the burden on our administrations, which are already overburdened and, for some member states, are undergoing austerity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to introduce new european rules to facilitate the free movement of citizens by making it easier to prove the authenticity of documents, such as a birth or marriage certificate, in another member state of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the legislation covered by this recommendation at second reading aims to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. it does not concern the recognition of the content of public documents, in particular to safeguard the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. the proposal covers several documents, but a recital states that this regulation should not apply to passports and identity cards. in view of the conventions already in force, i wonder whether this text is really useful and how it would help to combat existing fraud. it is just another gadget that will add to the burden on our administrations, which are already overburdened and, for some member states, are undergoing austerity. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection amendment proposed by our group, the enf group.
in writing. ‒ given the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real value of this text and what would help to combat existing fraud. this is yet another gadget that will add to the burden on our administrations, which are already overburdened and, for some member states, are undergoing austerity. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection amendment tabled by my group, the enf group.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislation is to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents within the european union. this regulation provides for exemptions from legalisation and apostille for public documents of nationals of member states within the european union, such as birth and death certificates, and the creation of multilingual forms. this text is in fact of no major interest in view of the applicable conventions already in force, which exempt almost all the member states of the union from apostille and legalisation procedures. that is why i voted in favour of an amendment rejecting the text put forward by my group, the europe of nations and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the adoption of a regulation to facilitate the free movement of citizens by simplifying the recognition of official documents, such as birth or marriage certificates, in the member states of the european union. the regulation covers civil status documents and other documents often required by citizens such as residence, nationality and criminal records. considering that more than 14 million european citizens live in a member state other than their home state, that they face tedious administrative procedures and that there is a need to alleviate these administrative obstacles, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to facilitate the free movement of citizens of the european union by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents. more and more citizens are exercising their right to free movement and are moving to another eu country to study or work. the same is true for companies. it is therefore important to facilitate their administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislation is to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. this does not concern the recognition of the content of public documents, in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. for these public documents, the regulation provides for exemption from legalisation and apostille, which are two administrative formalities provided for for crossborder public documents. in view of the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to identify the added value of this text in terms of combating existing fraud. this is yet another measure which will undermine the smooth functioning of our administrations, which are already overburdened. i voted against this proposal and therefore for the rejection amendment.
in writing. - vote against the motion, therefore for the rejection amendment. in view of the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real value of this text and what would make it possible to combat existing fraud.
in writing. we must support all proposals that promote the free movement of european citizens. this is precisely the purpose of this regulation, which will simplify administrative formalities by removing the legalisation or apostille requirement for documents relating to the status of persons and life certificates, documents to be presented by non-nationals wishing to exercise their right to vote in their member state of residence for elections to the european parliament and municipal elections, and finally documents relating to the absence of a criminal record. no more compulsory official translations for these documents, which will be accepted as they are by all european administrations! a proposal to extend this system should be put in place as soon as possible within two years to include documents relating to the status and representation of companies, diplomas, intellectual property rights, certificates recognising disability status, or documents relating to social insurance rights.
in writing. ‒ given the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real value of this text and what would help to combat existing fraud. this is yet another gadget that will add to the burden on our administrations, which are already overburdened and, for some member states, are undergoing austerity. i therefore voted against the text and in favour of the amendment rejecting the enf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which will promote the free movement of citizens between european countries by facilitating the free movement of certain public documents between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the council's position, because its text is not relevant. this rejection proposal, which was put forward by the enl, was unfortunately rejected by parliament.
in writing. ‒ the need to make european citizenship more tangible was underlined by the stockholm programme in 2009. in order to strengthen confidence in the european area of justice, it advocated an action plan which specifically included the abolition of the apostille. in this sense, the delvaux report entitled 'fostering free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents' aims to reduce the administrative burden on european citizens while providing them with legal certainty and administrative simplification, since it abolishes the apostille for documents covered by this regulation. these are the civil status documents: marriage, partnership, birth, certificate of life, death certificate, certificate of residence, electoral rights and absence of criminal record. finally, to reduce the risk of fraud, the text provides for the use of an imi platform, which is a system for the direct exchange of information between the various authorities. thus, if an administration has doubts about the authenticity of a document, it can contact the competent authority directly to verify the authenticity of the document.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to exempt the member states of the european union (except cyprus, malta, finland and the czech republic) from a number of legal procedures for authenticating a french document. this proposal would apply to documents establishing birth, death, marriage, divorce, legal separation... however, passports and identity cards are not included in the text. some public documents are concerned, such as those allowing the right to vote abroad. in addition, the text provides for assistance in the translation of documents and a procedure enabling the foreign authority, in case of doubt, to verify the authenticity of a document with the national authority of reference. the report as a whole is an increase in administrative burdens and is in line with existing legislation. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection amendment tabled by our group.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to simplify crossborder formalities in order to facilitate the free movement of citizens and businesses. these provisions concern, inter alia, the abolition of the apostille procedure, the simplification of the acceptance of certified or uncertified copies and the recognition of birth and death certificates. the principle of mutual trust will thus be applied, while the introduction of multilingual standard forms of the european union will make life easier for citizens and businesses operating abroad. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ given the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real value of this text and what would help to combat existing fraud. this is yet another gadget that will add to the burden on our administrations, which are already overburdened and, for some states, are under austerity. i therefore vote against the proposal and for the rejection of the enf group's amendment.
in writing. ‒ given the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real value of this text and what would help to combat existing fraud. this is yet another gadget which will add to the burden on our administrations, which are already overburdened and, for some member states, are undergoing austerity. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment tabled by the nfb which sought to reject the council's position on this text, which concerns a draft regulation aimed at promoting the free movement of citizens by simplifying the conditions for presenting certain public documents in the european union. the aim of this text is to exempt european citizens from the administrative formalities of legalisation and apostille and to enable the administration receiving the document to ask the authority which issued it to verify its authenticity.
in writing. ‒ given the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real value of this text and what would help to combat existing fraud. this is yet another gadget that will add to the burden of our administrations, already overburdened and subject to the austerity imposed by the european union. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation which will promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents, including the widespread introduction of multilingual standard forms for most public documents. however, i would point out that this text does not concern the recognition of the content of public documents, in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states, as in the case of family law for example.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. this applies to civil status documents and certain other documents often required by citizens, such as residence, nationality and criminal records. facilitated acceptance measures are also provided for certified true copies and certified translations. finally, the regulation provides for the creation of multilingual standard forms for most of the public documents concerned. i supported this text because it will make life easier for european citizens and will allow for better cooperation between member states.
in writing. ‒ given the applicable conventions already in force, it is difficult to see the real value of this text and what would help to combat existing fraud. this is yet another gadget that will add to the burden on our administrations, which are already overburdened and, for some member states, are undergoing austerity. i therefore voted for the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation on the reform of the court of justice. i welcome the fact that in this text the european parliament has in particular reiterated its commitment to gender balance among judges in the courts of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. we strongly oppose this costly, illegal and unnecessary reform at a time when austerity is hitting our national courts. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject.
in writing. ‒ this draft regulation is the fourth on the controversial reform of the cjeu. this proposed transfer masks the reality that the european union civil service tribunal is being abolished outright. the increase of seven judges in the general court as of 1 september 2016 should be accompanied by the transfer to the general court of jurisdiction to rule at first instance in disputes between the union and its servants. i had asked a written question to that effect and i consider that the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from the outset, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. moreover, the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. this costly and unequal reform is not useful in my view and i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the european union civil service tribunal was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. i am firmly opposed to this costly, illegal and unnecessary reform at a time when austerity is hitting our national courts. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this is the fourth draft regulation on the highly controversial reform of the court of justice. it is part of a strategy to extend the jurisdiction of the union's courts as litigation in european law intensifies. the purpose of this regulation is first to provide the court of justice of the european union with seven additional judges and to abolish the european civil service tribunal. this reform, which was carried out without any consultation or impact assessment, aims to concentrate the judicial powers in the hands of a single judicial body. rather than strengthening the capacity of the european judicial bodies, the lack of resources of the french judicial institution should be compensated for. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report deals with the third and most controversial aspect of the reform of the court of justice, namely the increase in the number of judges of the general court. this increase is linked to the abolition of the civil service tribunal, which has 7 judges. the report presents several technical adjustments. considering that the court of justice of the european union must have the necessary tools and staff to carry out its tasks effectively, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between the union and its servants. the increase in the number of judges in the court of justice of the european union implies the abolition of the european union civil service tribunal. the court of justice will thus have jurisdiction to rule on civil service disputes.
in writing. ‒ this draft regulation is the fourth on the controversial reform of the court of justice. the text provides in particular for the repeal of decision 2004/752/ec establishing the civil service tribunal. the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, without any impact or cost analysis. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. as i am firmly opposed to this costly, irregular and unnecessary reform in a context of austerity which applies to our national courts, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. we strongly oppose this costly, illegal and unnecessary reform at a time when austerity is hitting our national courts.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. we strongly oppose this costly, illegal and unnecessary reform at a time when austerity is hitting our national courts. naturally, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which, following the abolition of the civil service tribunal, transfers to the general court of the european union the jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between the union and its servants.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to abolish the civil service tribunal without consulting its judges, and in breach of article 257 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which allows for the creation of courts but not for their abolition. in addition, this measure is a direct consequence of the scandalous decision to double the number of judges in the union from 28 to 56. i objected to this decision because it was unnecessary, according to the testimony of the judges of the ecj whom i had previously heard.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote is the fourth version of the reform of the european court of justice. the latter proposal, submitted by the legal entity on 17 november 2015, provides for the main action to abolish the european union civil service tribunal (cts). however, neither the judges nor the officials concerned were consulted. in addition, the court of justice plans to increase the number of judges from 40 to 47 as from 1 september 2016, with the aim of reaching the quota of two judges per member state by 2019. this is a difficult, costly and controversial reform which is unnecessary and inconsistent in view of the austerity of the national courts. i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text follows the proposal for a regulation of 17 november 2015 on the transfer of the competences of the european civil service tribunal to the general court of the european union. the latter was established by decision 2004/752/ec and dealt specifically with disputes between european civil servants. to accompany this transfer, the court of justice of the european union would gradually increase its staff between 2016 and 2019. a transitional regime would be put in place for cases pending on 31 august 2016. we criticise both the principle and the method of simply abolishing the european civil service tribunal without an impact assessment or a thorough legal analysis. this is a costly reform, the legal basis of which is questionable. for this reason, we are firmly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ this is the final stage in the reform of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu). it provides for the abolition of the european civil service tribunal and the transfer of its jurisdiction and judges to the court of first instance of the cjeu. but the bottleneck that justifies this reform is mainly the eu's contentious state aid and recent developments in the banking union and the common foreign and security policy. i therefore oppose any increase in the weight of this court under these conditions. moreover, while the civil service tribunal has hitherto guaranteed high-quality treatment to european civil servants, there is cause for concern about the fate of european officials in this court in the event of a dispute with their employers. i vote against this reform.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges or officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. we strongly oppose this costly, illegal and unnecessary reform at a time when austerity is punishing our national courts.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. this reform is costly, illegal and unnecessary at a time when austerity is hitting our national courts. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between the union and its servants. the text confirms the abolition of the civil service tribunal, which will compensate for the increase in the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from its inception, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. this reform is costly, illegal and unnecessary at a time when austerity is hitting our national courts. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between the union and its servants. this step is the fourth part of a major reform of the court of justice of the european union, which has been underway since 2014 and which, in the interests of simplification, endorses the abolition of the civil service tribunal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between the union and its servants. such a competence, in addition to being provided for in the treaties, is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions. it will speed up the work of the court of justice of the european union in order to be more effective vis-à-vis european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this regulation provides for the repeal of decision 2004/752/ec establishing the civil service tribunal and adds two articles to the statute of the court of justice providing for the jurisdiction of the court of first instance of the union to rule on disputes between the union and its servants and the possibility of amicable settlement of disputes. provisions are also made for the procedural handling of cases pending before the cpt as at 31 august 2016 and for a transitional regime for pending appeals. the reform of the court of justice was carried out, from the outset, in a scandalous manner, without any analysis of its impact or cost. the abolition of the tfp was proposed without consulting its judges and officials and without a thorough analysis of article 257 of the feu treaty as the legal basis for its abolition. i am firmly opposed to this costly, illegal and unnecessary reform at a time when austerity is hitting national courts. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this oral question, which followed the adoption in january 2013 of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. the question with request for an oral answer was: has the commission analysed the proposed regulation to the extent that it can react to its content? what reasons prevented it from submitting a proposal similar to the proposed regulation? when can we expect a proposal? i consider it necessary for the union to have a clear body of rules of union administrative law.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is an important step towards better administration and greater transparency in the eu institutions, as well as greater legal certainty for european citizens. the latter are not fully aware of their rights vis-à-vis the union's bodies and its administration. for most of them, the administration of the union remains opaque and difficult to understand. it is urgent to bring european administration closer to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure that the european union has a clear set of rules of eu administrative law. this is without prejudice to our future position on the substance of a possible legislative proposal from the european commission.
in writing. - i don't want to sound too cynical, but i would say that we can still dream. i voted in favour of this resolution for an efficient administration of the european union, although i am afraid - once again - that the good intentions expressed in this resolution will remain a dead letter. we can therefore still dream and support the expressed desire to write our texts in a language which is clear and understandable to all citizens. we can still dream and support the stated desire to put all the languages of the union on an equal footing, even if in our own assembly so many texts are often available only in shakespeare's language. we can still dream and support the expressed will to work for true transparency and public access to all documents. that 's good . it is a matter of applying these fine principles. it's not the first time they've been stated here. will it be another beautiful statement that will not be followed by effect?
in writing. ‒ in 2013, parliament voted a resolution calling for a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration for the european union. this had not been followed up by the commission. the juri committee has therefore drawn up such a document and this resolution calls on the commission to examine the draft and to submit a legislative proposal to it. this text does not prejudge our future position and has no substantive impact, so i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to have a clear body of rules of eu administrative law. this is without prejudice to my future position on the substance of a possible legislative proposal from the european commission. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 15 january 2013, parliament adopted a motion for a resolution on a regulation establishing an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union. the commission has never implemented parliament's motion for a resolution. parliament therefore returned to the matter to ask the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on this matter. because i am in favour of the union having a clear body of rules of administrative law of the union without this prejudging my future position on the substance of a possible legislative proposal from the european commission, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which has been tabled.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament tabled a resolution in january 2013 calling for the adoption of a regulation for an open, efficient and independent union administration. however, following this resolution, the parliament's request was not heard by the commission. the committee on legal affairs has therefore drawn up a proposal for a regulation which can meet parliament's expectations in terms of democratisation and good administration. i believe that the commission must take account of the views of the european citizens represented by the members of parliament, and i therefore supported this resolution.
in writing. i supported this resolution on an open, efficient and independent administration for the european union. i strongly urge the commission to study the draft regulation prepared and adopted by the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the european union needs a clear set of rules of eu administrative law.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs to have a clear body of rules of eu administrative law. that is why i was in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which refers to a legislative initiative report which in january 2013 made a request for a regulation on a more open, efficient and independent european administration, which the european commission never acted on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary for the european union to have a clear body of rules of administrative law, in the interests of the people who are administered, in order to combat the abuse of power by the many european administrations.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this is the creation of an open, efficient and independent european union administration, the creation of which was approved by a majority parliamentary vote on 15 january 2013. it is necessary for the union to have a clear body of rules of union administrative law. this is without prejudice to our future position on the substance of a possible legislative proposal from the european commission, due in 2017.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this resolution provides concrete clarifications to the european parliament resolution adopted by a large majority on 15 january 2013. this second resolution, which was initiated by the parliamentary committee on legal affairs, presents concrete proposals for the establishment of a complete and coherent body of administrative law. if we support the principle, we reserve the right to evaluate the text drawn up by the commission on the basis of this parliamentary resolution at a later stage.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this resolution is to establish a set of procedural rules which the european union administration should respect in the exercise of its activities. this would indeed bring greater clarity and consistency to the interpretation of the current provisions, for the benefit of citizens and businesses as well as the administration and its agents. this resolution follows the berlinguer report of 15 january 2013 which called on the commission to submit, on the basis of article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a regulation on a european law of administrative procedure, following the detailed recommendations set out in the annex. the resolution notes that the commission has not made any commitments to this effect. i would ask the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on this subject. i vote for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs a clear body of administrative law rules. of course, this does not prejudge our future position on the substance of a possible legislative proposal from the european commission. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows a vote by the european parliament in january 2013 on the request for the adoption of a regulation on an administration of the european union. the european commission did not react to this vote. parliament therefore asked the commission for explanations and for the presentation of a legislative proposal to be integrated into the 2017 work programme. we supported this resolution because it is necessary for the union to have a clear body of administrative law. however, our position does not prejudge the position we will take on the substance of the legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ the union needs to have a clear body of european union administrative law rules. without prejudice to my position on the substance of any legislative proposal from the european commission, i shall vote for this text for the time being.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the commission to examine a legislative own-initiative report adopted by a very large majority in the previous parliament. this report made a request for a regulation on the subject of an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, which the european commission never acted on. i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of this regulation laying down the procedural rules governing the administrative tasks of the european union administration. the increase in powers at union level means that european citizens are now often linked to institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the european union without adequate protection of their procedural rights. the text thus lays down rules to increase the level of transparency, efficiency and speed of implementation and responsiveness of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the commission to propose a regulation on the administrative procedural law of the european union. such arrangements would facilitate the relations of european citizens with the european administration. with the development of the union's competences, citizens are increasingly confronted directly with the european administration. however, they do not always enjoy the corresponding procedural rights. at present, the union does not have a coherent and comprehensive set of codified rules of administrative law, which does not facilitate citizens' understanding of their rights. we must guarantee citizens access to an open, efficient and independent administration based on european administrative procedural law.
in writing. ‒ on 15 january 2013, parliament called, in accordance with article 225 of the tfeu, for the adoption of a regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, on the basis of article 298 tfeu. the resolution was adopted by an overwhelming majority (572 votes in favour, 16 against and 12 abstentions). parliament's request was not followed by any commission proposal. the legal affairs committee set up a working group which drew up a concrete proposal for such a regulation, which was drawn up and adopted by the legal affairs committee. the european parliament resolution calls on the commission to examine the draft and to submit a legislative proposal to the european parliament, to be included in its work programme for 2017. it is necessary for the european union to have a clear body of rules of administrative law of the union. this is without prejudice to the enf group's subsequent position on the substance of a possible legislative proposal from the european commission. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the face of unfair competition, particularly from asia, it is essential to provide more support for the steel sector and to secure european industrial jobs. the resolution proposes concrete measures to improve r & d activities, support smes and attract skilled workers to the sector. we also call on the commission to publish a communication on a coherent industrial policy strategy for the european union to re-industrialize europe.
in writing. ‒ this report draws attention to a sector which is crucial for the industrial policy of european countries. however, its europeanism prevents any meaningful reflection on an industry which is a sovereign industry by nature. it advocates more investment in the sector, but does not call into question privatisation and competition, which are precisely the corollaries of the decline in investment in the network, as was the case in britain, for example. in addition, the role of the state is central to exporting these technologies, as in the field of defence industries; if the selling state does not order its equipment, it is not credible. the report's response to this is to open up public procurement more widely so that others can open up theirs to us and not require local production. we are dreaming ! i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ like my colleague dominique riquet, i am a champion of the competitiveness of the european railway sector, which is one of the few industrial sectors where europeans still hold a dominant position in the world. but it is under serious threat, especially from competitors whose market is closed, sometimes in double shifts. for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with a strategic sector for the union, and in particular for france, namely the railway industry (siemens, alstom, etc.). the text addresses several positive findings (need for r & d investment, importance of the sector, fierce competition and methods for obtaining contracts, etc.), but many points remain negative. the report does not dare to name the international adversaries (south korea, canada and soon china), laments the lack of openness of foreign public procurement (how much of ukraine was supplied to hyundai in 2012 while it was receiving european funding?) or remains silent on the issue of sanctions against russia, yet one of the first foreign markets in the sector. finally, this report provides strong support for the s2r grouping of which bombardier is a member (the european character is therefore somewhat compromised...). the europeanism of the report prevents a thorough reflection on an industry which is an industry of sovereignty. it advocates more investment in the sector, but does not question the privatisation and competition that are precisely the corollary of the decline in investment in the network (see the example of the united kingdom). moreover, the role of the state is central and is not mentioned. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the importance of this industrial sector as a growth driver and the need to boost investment, particularly in r&d. but its europeanism prevents any meaningful reflection on an industry which is by nature a sovereign industry. this report is too much oriented towards free competition within europe: - it does not even name the opponents on the international market (south korea, canada) and those that will emerge (china); - the fact that ukraine has equipped itself with hyundai, while the country receives european funds, is not denounced; - it advocates the inclusion of smes as subcontractors in intra-european competition, while the organization in a chain is the only right answer; - it does not question privatization, which has precisely to corollary the decline in investment in the network, as in great britain for example. finally, i believe that the role of the state is central to exporting these technologies and that the selling state must order its equipment if it is to be credible. the report naively calls for more openness in public procurement so that others can open theirs to us in return. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the economic challenges facing the railway sector and the very strong competition that exists in it. however, the report does not sufficiently point out certain shortcomings of eu funded countries such as ukraine, which preferred to buy equipment from hyundai rather than from european equipment manufacturers. nor does the report say anything about the negative consequences of sanctions against russia, a country which is a privileged market for the european railway industry. the sanctions have for example led to the freezing of the moscow-kazan lgv project. the 'europeanist' tone of this report is particularly problematic, given that the railway industry is a matter of the sovereign interests of the member states. for all these reasons, i voted against the motion for a resolution which has been tabled.
‒ the european rail equipment sector is very important as it contributes to technological advances in favour of a low-carbon means of mass transport. moreover, the sector is composed of a large number of smes, but also of larger companies, which account for a large number of jobs and invest in research and development. it is therefore an important source of technological innovation. however, it is clear that the sector is facing difficulties, particularly in terms of international competition from third countries. the resolution calls on the commission to mobilise more of the financial instruments available to this sector, to synergize european funds in this area and to seek other financial resources for the s2r joint undertaking (shift2rail). i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution addresses the european railway market and defends the specific nature of the european railway industry by calling for the development of a new innovation programme for the european railway industry. this resolution also stresses the need to develop the appropriate skills for the european rail industry while developing support measures for smes in the rail industry. considering that the sharp and rapid increase in low-priced imports of railway equipment from third countries can be unfair competition for european manufacturers, and that it is necessary for the european railway equipment industry to remain competitive on the international market, i supported this report.
in writing. the resolution on the competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry calls, inter alia, for encouraging collaboration between large companies and smes in research projects and for stimulating investment in railway projects. the sector employs over 400 000 people at european level, and i therefore supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report draws attention to a sector at the heart of industrial policy in european countries. it advocates more investment in the railway sector without calling into question the privatisation and competition which have led to a decline in investment in the network, as has been the case in britain. in addition, the state has a key role to play in exporting these technologies, particularly in the defence industries. if the selling state doesn't order its equipment, it can't be credible. the text advocates greater openness to public procurement, in the hope that others will open theirs to us in return. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the role of the state is central to exporting these technologies, as in the field of defence industries; if the selling state doesn't order its equipment, it's not credible. the report's response to this is to open up public procurement more widely so that, in return, others will open up theirs to us and not require local production. against the resolution and against the oral question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry is increasingly being undermined by increased competition at international level. asia is gradually overtaking europe as the main market for rail equipment. yet it is a strategic industry employing almost 400 000 people in europe, present in all european countries and comprising a large chain of subcontractors and thousands of suppliers and specialist equipment manufacturers. the demand for such equipment is increasing at european and global levels and europe must therefore play its full part in conquering new markets, whether in america, africa or the middle east. it is time for the european commission to take serious action to enable our industry to compete fairly on an international level. this must be done quickly if we are to ensure a sustainable future for our industry, in europe and internationally. our european response must be twofold: on the one hand, financing investment in research and innovation, which will be the added value of our industry, and on the other hand, using our trade defence instruments and rules which are not naive in the award of public contracts.
in writing. the european rail industry employs 160 000 people in europe and requires a european strategy to realise the potential for the development of transport in europe. it is in this sense that i support this resolution which calls on the commission to mobilise all the funds available to support the railway industry, a strategic sector which is under threat from all sides, in particular through the efsi, the esi fund and targeted programmes such as cosme. without clear and structured support for this industry, it will be difficult to realise the potential for transport development in europe, even as the regulatory framework is making great strides with the adoption of the technical part of the 4th railway package in april. the text refers to the next major challenges in the sector, such as ertms or the standardisation of parts, and mentions the problems linked to unfair competition from certain third countries (in particular china). more than ever we call on the european commission to develop a genuine eu industrial strategy, including the railway industry, which is one of the most important and strategic sectors of the union.
in writing. ‒ this report draws attention to a sector which is crucial for the industrial policy of european countries. however, its europeanism prevents any meaningful reflection on an industry which is a sovereign industry by nature. it advocates more investment in the sector but does not call into question privatisation and competition, which are precisely the corollaries of the decline in investment in the network, as was the case in britain, for example. in addition, the role of the state is central to exporting these technologies, as in the field of defence industries; if the selling state doesn't order its equipment, it's not credible. the report's response to this is to open up public procurement more widely so that, in return, others will open up theirs to us and not require local production. so i objected to that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the competitiveness of the european railway equipment sector. the french railway industry, which employs 21 000 people in our country and ranks third in the world behind china and germany, is a major challenge for our country. the resolution highlights the specific nature and strategic importance of this sector for the reindustrialisation of europe and proposes measures to support industry in order to combat unfair competition from third countries.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is too free-trade. it opens up the european railway sector to chinese, korean and canadian companies to the detriment of the interests of the french company alstom.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on a sector which is crucial for the industrial policy of the states, and which is above all a sovereign area. he takes stock of the current situation and makes some honest remarks. it demonstrates the need to strengthen training and skills in this sector, the fierce competition to win new markets and the importance of this industry for growth. however, it ignores many of the difficulties facing the sector, such as sanctions against russia, which block an important market, or the fierce global competition from south korea, canada and soon china. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. the report notes the fierce competition in the railway sector and calls for increased public investment, particularly in research and development. this report is reprehensible for its unspoken words. firstly, the liberalisation policies promoted by the european union are the cause of the erosion of investment in the network. the most fierce competitors, namely south korea, canada and china, are not named, and no mention is made of sanctions against russia. the report is no more satisfactory on the proposed solutions. the proposals for smes are not relevant. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to s2r was granted to the same companies. for all these reasons, and because we believe that the railway sector is intrinsically linked to the prerogatives of sovereign states, we cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this resolution is to encourage the race towards more competition and liberalisation in the railway sector. the commission also proposes that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it even calls for the implementation of 'a genuine single market for rail products' via 'the removal of the main non-tariff barriers which impede access to external markets for the sector. the concept of an efficient public service accessible to all users is obviously absent from this text, which only seeks to help private companies to increase their profits in the railway sector. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report draws attention to a sector which is crucial for the industrial policy of european countries. however, its ideological europeanism prevents any meaningful and lucid reflection. the report advocates investment but without calling into question the concomitant privatization of the sector, which has as a direct consequence the decline in investment, as was the case in great britain. the report also makes some astonishing findings, particularly on the reciprocity of the opening up of public procurement. that is why i am voting against the resolution and the oral question.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights positive aspects such as the importance of this sector in the recovery of growth, the presence of very aggressive competition in securing markets, the need to strengthen training and qualifications, and the need for investment in r&d. however, the report does not mention the adversaries faced by european railway companies or the fact that this strategic sector for the states needs public support, which is currently limited or prohibited by the european union. moreover, there is no mention of the very negative impact of the sanctions imposed by the union on russia, which is one of the main markets for the european railway industry. we therefore vote against the resolution and the oral question.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates more investment in the sector but does not question privatisation and competition which are precisely the corollary of the decline in investment in the network, as was the case in britain, for example. in addition, the role of the state is central to exporting these technologies, as in the field of defence industries; if the selling state doesn't order its equipment, it's not credible. the report's response to this is to open up public procurement more widely so that, in return, others will open up theirs to us and not require local production. that is absurd and that is why i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which i negotiated as the fictitious rapporteur for the epp group. this text highlights the specificity, strategic interest and potential of the railway industry sector for the reindustrialisation of europe. it highlights the challenges faced by companies in this sector, which face unfair and aggressive competition from companies whose finances are intertwined with those of their governments, such as china. the resolution aims to give smes the tools to enable them to innovate, export and participate more easily in the consolidation of the sector if they so wish, but also to put the commission in charge by asking it to set up a structured and high-level industrial dialogue bringing together economic and political actors.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates more investment in the sector but does not question privatisation and competition, which are precisely the corollaries of the decline in investment in the network, as was the case in britain, for example. in addition, the role of the state is central to exporting these technologies, as in the field of defence industries; if the selling state doesn't order its equipment, it's not credible. the report's response to this is to open up public procurement more widely so that others can open up theirs to us and not require local production. that is absurd and that is why i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, partly because i had recently been working as a shadow rapporteur on the regulation of engines for railway locomotives. i am therefore aware of the problem that in some cases strict european regulation may threaten the competitiveness of our firms in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the competitiveness of the railway equipment sector in europe. this text highlights the specificity, the strategic interest and the potential of this sector, in which france ranks third in the world. one of the key aspects of the text is to strengthen support for companies in the sector, which employ 400 000 people, in particular to promote innovation and exports.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the resolution on the competitiveness of the european rail industry, meps are sending a clear message to the european commission to adopt an ambitious commercial strategy to defend the interests of the european industry. with over 46% of the world market and over 1.2 million direct and indirect jobs, the european rail industry is the world leader! however, faced with globalised competition, the emergence of new global giants and the entry of non-european companies into the internal market, europe must act to maintain its leading position and ensure fair competition. the resolution calls on the commission to take measures to ensure reciprocity in trade so that european companies are not penalized for entering the market of countries benefiting from the opening of the internal market. the resolution also calls on the commission to take better account of the need for investment in railway infrastructure, which is making a full and tangible contribution to the challenges of reindustrialisation and the fight against global warming. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted this morning in favour of mrs werner's motion for a resolution following an oral question from the itre committee on the competitiveness of the european railway equipment sector. the main purpose of this resolution is to draw the commission's attention to this sector, where our leadership (46% of the world market) is now under threat due to several factors: weak public demand, difficulty in accessing finance, stagnation or decline in the modal share of rail, (sometimes unfair) competition from third countries, etc. it may not be too late for the future of european rail equipment. the urgency of the situation, however, requires us to act quickly by adopting measures relating to financing, r & d, the regulatory framework, training and reciprocity in our trade, with particular attention to smes. the european railway equipment sector has a number of advantages: it has excellent environmental performance, it has a large market and it contributes to mass transport in the face of growing mobility needs.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european railway equipment industry is a strategic sector. it employs 400,000 people and accounts for 46% of the world market. however, it should be given the capacity to remain competitive and protected from unfair competition from third countries, including china. it is about preserving our jobs and our industry. we ask the commission to ensure that the commercial strategy ensures a level playing field, is consistent with the needs of our industry and contains provisions to improve market access, particularly for public procurement. european industry must be able to count on strong political support from the union. the resolution also contains other proposals which i strongly support, such as renewed action to promote innovation in this sector, more active support for smes and the stimulation of investment. in addition, the commission must reassess the current competition rules to allow for the establishment of strategic partnerships and alliances. this is a prerequisite for the emergence of european champions, who are essential for the future of this sector as well as other european industrial sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the competitiveness of the european rail industry. the rail sector employs 400 000 people in europe and includes both smes and large enterprises; it invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in research and development and accounts for 46% of the world market. it is also important to note its central role in employment, as it generates more than 1 million direct jobs and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the european union. the union must act to renew its action in favour of innovation in the sector and it is important to encourage the extension of the activity of smes beyond borders. it is crucial to revive the competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry at the very moment when it is under pressure from international competition. we therefore reiterate the importance of ensuring reciprocal market access and the opening up of public procurement by our partners in the context of the current trade negotiations and future agreements. at the same time, it is important to continue to fight against all forms of dumping and therefore to proceed as quickly as possible with the modernisation of our trade defence instruments.
in writing. ‒ this report draws attention to a sector which is crucial for the industrial policy of european countries. however, its europeanism prevents any meaningful reflection on a sector which is a sovereign industry by nature. it advocates more investment in the sector, but does not call into question privatisation and competition, which are precisely the corollaries of the decline in investment in the network, as was the case in britain, for example. in addition, the role of the state is central to exporting these technologies; as in the field of defence industries, if the selling state does not order its equipment, it is not credible. the report's response to this is to open up public procurement more widely so that, in return, others will open up theirs to us and not require local production. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to take stock of the competitiveness situation of the european railway equipment industry. as might be expected, it is an ode to the liberalisation and competition of the railway sector. the objective is very clear: to help companies to make more profits in this sector. it's definitely not working. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in spite of the damage already done by successive liberalisations, parliament, by a very large majority, is pursuing the total liberalisation of rail and the dismantling of public rail services in the name of free and undistorted competition. the gue/ngl had tabled several amendments to try to counter this strategy of dismantling the railway. they were all rejected. we certainly do not share the same view of the general interest in this parliament. i object, once again.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are and i am very concerned about the commission's right to inform parliament. the truth of the information, the cross-referencing of sources are the conditions for an informed judgment. the cross-referencing of sources is absolutely necessary for parliamentary work. in this connection, i had already supported the plan of our intelligence officials to set up a school of economic warfare in 1986, because war today is often economic and involves the manipulation of information, and this when i was in the office of the president of the national assembly. i also think that parliamentary investigative work is fundamental, because there is a constant attempt to manipulate us, to manipulate the representatives of sovereignty. i must say, however, that the experience of two years in this parliament makes me doubt our sincerity in seeking the truth. i am not talking about the commission, it is under pressure, as our investigative journalists have shown in their book, circus politicus, which has received the international press prize. this commission manipulates us with false information, which is the product of state propaganda, of commissioners linked to circles of hidden interests that have nothing european about them. this propaganda is shameless, outrageous, carried out by disinformation agencies presented as emanations of civil society or by these secret societies working for foreign lobbies. there is enough precision in the investigative work done by journalists. i am talking about our parliament, about the way we take information, and about the way we look at the information we receive. we are quantitatively more than well informed, but qualitatively, are we really well informed? i'm asking you. our foreign services, for example, do not work with sources, do not oversee the intelligence work done by our states. on the other hand, in france, for example, there is a real work which is also being done in the national parliament. there's no such job here. parliament is the place where the propaganda, the lying, so-called official voice, is amplified. we write reports, we hold meetings, often in all directions, but in the same tone and with the same people, in the same ideological approach. it's not a scientific approach. our so-called independent experts are chosen from the same mainstream of single-mindedness formatted in the world of fiction versus reality. in doing so, we distill, under the guise of analysis, propaganda and ideology, which, when transformed into decisions, explain the harmfulness of parliament's action, which continues on the path of lies. the commission has always supported the policy of chaos promoted by the united states, without acknowledging its mistakes, which the american executive is now acknowledging. during the iraq war, the commission, and particularly its leader, was the faithful relay, the worst amplifier of the united states, and the saboteur of the peace policy initiated by france and germany. and from the parliament's side, it was no better. i had met with president brok at the time, at the request of france; the european parliament has always been in favour of this paris-berlin-moscow axis, but the american policy has been followed by parliament. in libya, the commission and parliament welcomed the fall of a questionable but stable regime. there, too, a dictator, and peace, education, health, exemplary for an african country. today, 50 dictators, war and chaos... i was in syria. in the middle east, the commission and parliament are succeeding in their turn of fortune by being at once hostile to the only democracy in the region - i am talking about israel - and at the same time looking the other way at the gulf states, which are injecting the poison of radical islam into our cities. in the balkans, in ukraine, in the post-soviet space, the commission and this parliament are still pursuing the same policy and are the loyal allies of nato against the interests of the member states. this expansion without contours or frontiers is raising walls everywhere instead of building bridges between western and eastern europe, making our continent, not the tip of eurasia, but an advanced, instrumentalised and vassalised bridge to america. the commission's policy of providing information is harmful to our strategic interests. its choices have always sought to promote free trade and finance at the expense of long-term development in independent and sovereign strategic investment. i could give many more examples, but i do not have time. i just want to tell you one essential thing. political europe came into being with the muslim invasion. this is the first time in history that we are talking about a political europe. so, gentlemen, you are today in favour of this muslim invasion planned by foreign lobbies, as i have shown by the study which was provided to all parliamentarians, presented this week and which was made by the school of economic warfare. if a political europe is to survive, it will do so without the commission, and this parliament must be the emanation of the national parliaments. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer is "blue cardboard". i shall answer very simply, ladies and gentlemen. this propaganda has consisted in getting all the european banks, all the banks in the european union, from which we have asked for help to finance our electoral campaigns, to refuse all our requests, which clearly shows that there is a desire to destroy the main opposition party in france today. unfortunately, we had no choice but to go abroad. it could have been china or some other outside power. what you're denouncing is evidence of manipulation.
mr president, point 4.6 of the minutes states that the regulation on an open, efficient and independent administration, proposed by our distinguished colleagues mr swoboda and mrs hautala, has been adopted. this is an excellent text which, unfortunately, is not yet fully binding on all the institutions of the union because the regulation has not yet been adopted. but i hope that it will have binding value for this parliament and that it will be imposed on the administration of this parliament, which believes it is entitled to tax members of parliament with considerable sums of money without even having heard them, without even having heard them, which seems to me, sometimes, quite contrary to the independence that members of parliament must maintain vis-à-vis the administration.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would first like to thank my colleagues, for once it is not customary, for their relevance in the analysis of the congo and, more particularly, mr pittella. it's a country i love very much. i myself was with vice-president zahidi ngoma during the transition period and i followed this transition as one of the actors. the problem with the democratic republic of congo is its wealth. may i remind you that we went to get laurent-désiré kabila because uganda and rwanda had decided, on the orders of an outside power - i can give details - to invade the country. may i remind you that while laurent-désiré kabila was invading the country, a number of companies were signing contracts. they were american companies. may i also remind you that when laurent-désiré kabila turned around as a patriot for his country, we decided, here in brussels - i have the information, i can say who because he has died since - to eliminate him and we also went to washington to seek order. and he was eliminated a fortnight later! may i also remind you that at that time we went to joseph kabila, thinking that we would manipulate this young man because he was a rwandan national, and that we would make him a president. this is all manipulation. what the democratic republic of congo needs is a return to sovereignty, an army that actually fights, a peace-keeping monusco and the arrest of predators linked to organized crime and hypocritical states linked to multinational corporations.
madam president, for years the drc has been experiencing a dramatic situation: the proliferation of armed groups, poverty, destabilisation, massacres, the exploitation of the ethnic issue against the background of the government, neighbouring countries and multinational companies, particularly european ones, grabbing resources. the result: at least 400 000 congolese in exile, 1.5 million internally displaced persons (7% of the population), several million deaths in almost general indifference. it is a genocide, recognized by the un in 2010, one of the longest genocides in history, even if it was of low tension as mr pittella would say. the increase in violence in recent months shows that nothing has been resolved. so the question is: when will the international community finally react to what is happening in the congo? the responsibility of both is heavy. yes, we need to stabilize the country and bring mr. kabila to his senses. yes, we need independent investigations, including into the role of monusco. yes, we must end the funding of armed groups and the use of blood minerals. as long as we turn a blind eye to what is happening in the drc, the massacres will continue. it's an emergency.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the atrocities in the congo are getting worse. we had, you will recall, awarded the sakharov prize to dr. mukwege in 2014 for his work with women victims of rape and sexual violence. but today it is not only women but also children and babies who are the victims of armed groups. sexual violence has been used throughout the ages because it is a weapon of mass destruction. last year, the un released a damning report and called for the creation of new mechanisms to break the cycle of impunity. it is a step forward to learn that some of the executioners have been convicted, but it is not enough because the ruling power is complicit, because this barbarity is the direct consequence of the absence of the rule of law and the denial of justice in congo. it is also, and above all, the consequence of illegal mining activities carried out and protected by armed militias. we need to do more and better to fight these crimes because we are all responsible for these blood minerals that end up in our phones and other computer hardware. that is why i am pleased that europe is taking action in this direction with the recent agreement on the regulation on blood minerals.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, with charlie hebdo, le bataclan, brussels, orlando and now magnanville, the list of attacks perpetrated by the islamic state keeps growing. if the people of europe are right to pay tribute to the victims, politicians must act. but so far, the actions taken against islamist terrorism have not produced results. despite the so-called high alert levels, it is still possible to fly into brussels without being checked, as i myself saw last week. the same applies to national border controls, which still do not exist. in short, jihadist terrorists can move about in peace in this beautiful europe. to defeat the threat, you must first have the courage to name it. but by scheduling a debate today that you call "preventing radicalisation leading to violent extremism and terrorism", you are practicing ostrich politics because you deliberately deny the term "islamists". this is proof not only of your naivete but also of your fear and weakness because our model of civilization is non-negotiable. we must turn our backs on laxity and implement strong and firm measures today. firstly, to suspend schengen immediately, to strengthen the manpower and resources of the security forces and, finally, to strip dual nationals of their nationality who advocate terrorism. we expect nothing from the european commission in this case, except that it will give peace to the only legitimate states capable of fighting the islamic state effectively.
madam president, the attacks in paris and brussels have shown the failure of your europe. you're blinded by your ideology. the european union, mr brok, has become a sieve. the measures that must be taken are simple: national borders and border controls must be re-established. security, mr. brok, is the first of freedoms.
in writing. after the attacks on charlie hebdo and the bataclan in france, and those in brussels and orlando in the united states, the eu is still content with statements and fine resolutions on radicalisation or terrorism. but faced with the danger of radical islamism and the growing threats to our nations, we must act without further delay. we must reject this lax approach in the name of 'european humanism' and take strong measures today: suspend schengen, give back sovereignty to states in matters of immigration and security, reinstate our national police and armed forces, but above all dare to name the enemy we are fighting, islamist extremism. today more than ever we must be able to expel from our states all the terrorists and criminals who are such a permanent threat on european soil. only the nations can try to guarantee our security in the face of the terrorist threat; the eu has already failed miserably.
madam president, i am delighted with this debate on the impact of the us sanctions on the activities of european companies in iran because, firstly, i myself put a written question to the commission two months ago to this effect, and i am still awaiting its answer. secondly, because the news of the last few days shows that the us administration is favouring its domestic companies over their european competitors. the us administration has lifted sanctions on us companies and it maintains the threat to european companies. this is the reality. secretary of state john kerry is proclaiming everywhere that europeans can do business in iran, but airbus, for example, has been waiting for five months for the green light from ofac, the office of foreign assets control, to be able to make the sale of aircraft concluded in january a reality. without this green light, no bank, shocked by the huge fine imposed on bnp paribas - it is not millions of dollars, it is billions of dollars, nine billion for bnp paribas alone in the complete indifference of the commission and all the european authorities. it is a shame, it is a real scandal that reveals the state of vassalage in which you are in relation to the authorities in washington.
madam president, iran has given all the guarantees required by the treaty of 14 july 2015 with regard to its nuclear programme. in return, the eu sanctions were lifted in january 2016. there should be nothing in theory to prevent the resumption of normal trade relations between iran and the rest of the world. european banks are reluctant to finance commercial projects with iran, however, because they fear fines from the united states. the agreement on the sale of 118 airbus aircraft, recently signed by the french and iranian presidents, has thus been paralysed. the united states must commit in writing to no longer impose such fines and thus break with its pre-2015 practices. the european union must, for once, take courage and demand this written commitment from the united states. failing that, france will have to take its destiny into its own hands and ask its central bank to finance french projects in iran.
in writing. i support iran's reintegration into the international community and their application for wto membership. it is essential that the iranians see that the deal is working. we must therefore work to remove all barriers on both sides in order to lift the sanctions established by the joint comprehensive plan of action.
the rapporteur. madam president, i was given six minutes, and i will try to respect your time. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility of citizens in the european union is not an illusion. it is real and that is why the european union has 16 million multinational or international couples. these couples own property i.e. car, house or have bank accounts in various countries. if there is a problem, it is, so far, a real struggle to find a jurisdiction which is effective and accepted and, on the other hand, to achieve a fair sharing of responsibilities. these two regulations will put an end to the legal uncertainties that these couples face, with, of course, the costs of divorce proceedings and separations or in the event of death, and, above all, will put an end to the conflicting decisions that sometimes arise from these legal difficulties. these texts will apply to married couples as well as to those who have entered into a registered partnership. it was very difficult for these couples to know which court would have jurisdiction to settle disputes concerning their property in another member state, as the rules vary widely from one eu country to another. for this reason, when these regulations are adopted, spouses or partners will be able to choose, under certain conditions, the court which will be called upon to give a ruling. this may be the law of the country of residence or the country of nationality of the spouses or partners. this is a very clear arrangement and at the same time it is very flexible. the law chosen will be the law applicable to all assets, even if they are located in different countries. however, i would stress that these legal rules of each country will be properly applied and that the principle of subsidiarity will be properly respected. the two regulations do not concern the definition of marriage or the definition of partnership, and the rights and obligations arising from a marriage or registered partnership will continue to be governed by national law. thus, a member state which does not recognise registered partnerships will be entirely free not to adjudicate a dispute arising on its territory, particularly in view of the consequences of the separation or death of registered partners. it may therefore refer the case to the courts of another member state which recognises the partnership. the negotiations on these two regulations have been very delicate, as you well know. since the member states must reach unanimous agreement on family law, the procedure for enhanced cooperation was needed to resolve this situation, which caused a great deal of suffering. i can tell you, or rather confirm, that 18 member states have agreed to introduce and apply these various provisions among themselves. parliament gave its approval at the last plenary session in june 2016 to the decision to use enhanced cooperation for these two regulations. the two regulations, namely the regimes of marriage and registered partnership, were voted on by a large majority last week in the committee on legal affairs. so there was no major difficulty. there is an amendment which is a bit cosmetic, which calls for the original definition of member states to be completed and become 'the member states participating in enhanced cooperation'. this is a clarification which will have no legal effect. in any case, this addition is in my view somewhat unnecessary and superfluous, but in any case it does not influence the decision on the substance. i therefore inform you that my group and i have decided to recommend and vote against this amendment because we believe it is essential not to call into question the whole of the agreement negotiated with difficulty by the 18 member states participating in enhanced cooperation. in conclusion, madam president, commissioner, i would like to say that tomorrow's vote in favour of these two regulations is absolutely important, because it will allow the estimated timetable to be kept, so that the texts can be adopted at council level by the member states participating in this collegiate approach to enhanced cooperation as soon as possible. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that there are a number of couples, that is to say, some 16 million couples, which equals 32 million people. if you count two parents for each of these 32 million people, you get a sense of the number of families and people involved.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, according to the brussels commission, there are nearly 16 million international couples in the european union. in any event, the union is using this as a pretext to intervene twice in family law. the first concerns the applicable law and the recognition of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. but there is already the hague convention of 14 march 1978 on this subject. it would be better to encourage the states to ratify it rather than to compete with a european regulation. the second text concerns the recognition of decisions on registered partnerships. however, it poses a fundamental problem, since each state has its own conception of partnerships within a couple. the aim of imposing recognition of foreign partnerships will therefore, sooner or later, be to circumvent national rules in this field. that is why 10 of the 28 states have refused to accept these two bills, and that is why i will vote against them.
member of the commission. – madam speaker, after several years of complex negotiations 18 member states have expressed their wish to participate in the enhanced cooperation. i trust that more will join. i would like to invite the parliament to give its positive opinion on the two regulations implementing the enhanced cooperation. we are removing legal complications, making the lives of eu citizens simpler. international couples in the union, whether in a marriage or a registered partnership, will benefit from union common rules in handling their property matters. i would also like to invite member states who have not yet done so to join the enhanced cooperation, because the more member states that join, the greater number of citizens will benefit from the regulations.
the rapporteur. madam president, i do not know whether this will be the last word, but at least for tonight, probably, on this subject. i want to publicly thank the council, its departments and those of the european commission for putting an end to six years of what i would call inequalities. why do i use that term? if 18 countries agreed to sign up to some kind of pact - the same regulations anyway - for couples or "registered partners" - as they say modestly - that is, either unmarried male-female couples or homosexual couples living together, it is because they saw a demand in their country, and because we could not leave these citizens outside the law and, moreover, in conflict with international systems that no one person alone, even with a good lawyer, can overcome, because it is extremely complicated to be locked in this suffering. the 16 million couples i was talking about earlier represent 32 million individuals who are married or registered, and actually 64 million people - because each one has two parents - who are projected into kafka's world, because it is impossible to overcome or very difficult. i am therefore very grateful for the political will that both institutions have shown in helping us - the fictitious rapporteurs and myself - to bring about a text that has only been dragging on for too long. why did he just hang around so long? because it is rather strange - and some people have said this before - that the european union, by claiming to be a union of values - as you said, mr president - has promoted the free movement, the free protection and the free defence before the courts of capital, goods and services rather than the situation of individuals. we have dragged ourselves too far and i want to thank those who had the political courage to break through the obstacles to get this agreement. i'll end by saying two little things. firstly, does the text call subsidiarity into question? but it is not, because it is exclusive: those who do not want to subscribe to this text are not among the eighteen who have accepted it. even better, those who have citizens in their own country who want to go to court to settle their international situation but live in a country that does not want to change family law will still be protected by going to court in another country. that is why my colleagues, myself and the two institutions have been able to produce a text which is in reality a very simple human text, because it finally protects a minority which has been devastated by the ignorant will of the states. the ten who do not want it will have the opportunity to decide whether it is beneficial for the citizens who are obliged to use it or whether they should refuse it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i am pleased that the great differences in situations faced by member states are mentioned. i agree with the need to improve the status of teachers and professors and their salaries, given the unbearable pressure of the austerity policies imposed by brussels. the same is true for the development of quality learning policies or better responding to the specific needs of people with disabilities. as regards the integration of migrants through education, i would remind you that the real humanitarian approach is not to penalize the countries experiencing emigration in terms of human and economic resources. partnerships in the field of education could be established with neighbouring states or countries or areas of conflict. for example, establishing educational corridors to enable students from war zones to continue their studies as close to home as possible. despite these divergent points, i welcome the rapporteur and quote his honourable compatriot saint john paul ii: 'education is more than a trade, it is a mission to help each person to recognise what is irreplaceable and unique in him so that he can grow and flourish.' (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer "blue card". ... (inaudible) but i can tell you that in france, brussels dictates a lot of things to us, especially in the field of education or in the economy of our countries, since you know that systematically, you have, for example i will not talk about posted workers , laws that are made and that are contrary to what we would like. you know that our countries are not all equal. we don't have the same way of learning, we don't have the same learning, we are different in many things. the attempt to put everyone in the same basket is a serious problem, and it is precisely brussels that is dictating these problems to us.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, cop21 highlighted the fundamental role of regions and cities in the transition to low-carbon societies. the committee on regional development believes that cohesion policy funds can make a greater contribution to the objectives set for the development of renewable energy. the committee regrets that the mobilisation of cohesion policy funds for renewable energy has only increased from 1.1% in the period 2007-2013 to 1.4% in the period 2014-2020. we therefore call on european cities and regions to mobilise all instruments and redouble their efforts. as far as the outermost regions are concerned, we believe that it is possible to set an ambitious target of energy independence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was as an advocate of energy saving and new forms of energy that i was appointed, at a very young age, in 1980, to my first official post as head of the regional energy department in alsace. so i'll speak technically. we can set ourselves targets, but targets of 20, 30, 40 per cent are useless if there are no means. neither the commission nor the report sets out the means. what is needed is a voluntary policy, indeed, with public policy, because the market does not see the long term over 10 to 15 years. what is needed is long-term financing. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure. if you add in what needs to be done for renewable energy or transfer, you get 500 billion. you're not answering the question of the means.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on energy efficiency and renewable energy reminds me of this person who begs god every day to win the lottery. and god, tired, finally answered him, "but at least play, if you want me to win". that's our problem, we're just playing spells. no one can afford to be ambitious anymore. everyone is hesitant to bet on the ticket that will surely win. for example, there is nothing in the juncker investment plan, and yet these ambitions are noble. they make sense, they have economic interest. it's good for households, it's good for business, it's good for jobs. these ambitions are also, and above all, of interest to the well-being of the planet, because the energy that is least polluting and most economical is the energy that is not consumed. so enough of austerity, today's investments will be tomorrow's savings! if we want to win, let's go for energy efficiency, it's renewable. - i got it.
in writing. ‒ since 8 april, i have been campaigning for the establishment of a european commission of inquiry to shed light on these intolerable cases, especially for the millions of citizens who cannot make ends meet and who pay their taxes. this special committee will have to lead the union to take stronger action against fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. trade sanctions must be taken not only at european level but also at world level. finally, there is an urgent need to put an end to tax havens and to introduce a financial transaction tax to tackle these age-old practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's appointment of the 65 members of the committee of inquiry into tax evasion and money laundering, which includes gilles lebreton, member of the enl group.
in writing. ‒ this text was approved without a vote in parliament.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the appointment of the members of the new committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. i abstained on that point.
in writing. ‒ the panama papers have revealed real dysfunctions in the european and international tax systems. we must not tolerate individuals or companies using offshore companies based in tax havens to reduce their taxes or launder money. parliament decided to investigate breaches of eu law on taxation and money laundering. businesses and individuals must pay their taxes in an equitable manner. i voted for the composition of the members of this committee of inquiry of which i am an alternate member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of 65 meps to the committee of inquiry into the 'panama papers'. the commission was set up to investigate alleged breaches of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. in the face of the global tax scandal that has shaken europe, it is essential that parliament provide a strong response and shed light on the infringements committed.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament appointed the 65 members of its committee of inquiry into the so-called panama papers revelations, in connection with tax evasion and money laundering, after approving its mandate on 8 june. i voted in favour of this designation, which marks the beginning of the work of the committee of inquiry of which i am now a member.
in writing. ‒ i support the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breach of eu law and maladministration in its application in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. the enl group will be represented by gilles lebreton, barbara kappel and mario borghezio. we have also appointed bernard monot, lorenzo fontana and marcus pretzell as alternate members.
in writing. ‒ the enl group will have three full members and three alternates, which will give it a satisfactory presence in the new 65-member committee. the composition may be voted on in the state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the composition of the committee of inquiry set up after the panama papers scandal. the mandate of this committee was voted on at the first plenary session in june 2016.
in writing. ‒ following the vote in plenary at the beginning of june 2016, i renewed my support for the establishment of a committee of inquiry following the revelations of the so-called 'panama papers'. the commission will be asked to investigate possible breaches or maladministration in the application of european legislation on money laundering and tax evasion. the 65 meps have now been appointed and the committee will have 12 months to present its final report.
in writing. ‒ just as i welcomed the establishment of the committee of inquiry on the panama papers on 8 june, i welcome the appointment of its 65 members, as it means that parliament's work on the subject can now begin. the commission will investigate allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of eu legislation on money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. my 65 colleagues will have 12 months to submit their report, and i encourage them to shed light on the responsibilities involved in the face of these unacceptable practices.
in writing. ‒ these texts concern the updating of the euro-mediterranean agreements, which are the southern arm of the neighbourhood policy. they concern eu-lebanon relations in the first case and enlargement to the various new countries in the other two. i voted against these texts, which constitute an interference by the european union in the affairs of a state already facing the massive arrival of refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalisation of the sunni minority in the country. the eu has no international role to play.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the european union has strategic relations with lebanon. we support the stability and security of this country in a region of the world which is experiencing great turbulence. lebanon's participation in eu programmes is a means of providing concrete support for these strategic objectives.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text constitutes an update of the euro-mediterranean agreements. it concerns eu-lebanon relations in the first case and the enlargement of the eu to the various new countries in the other two. lebanon is now experiencing further destabilisation with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees. it does not need the european union as an additional problem to meddle in its affairs. the subtleties of the lebanese political game are completely beyond the reach of the community oligarchy, and i voted against the protocol.
in writing. ‒ this agreement, which updates the southern strand of the neighbourhood policy, concerns relations between the eu and lebanon. i voted against this text, believing that the eu should not have an international role, especially when it is a country whose situation is threatened by current events (inflow of syrian refugees) and which brussels' interference can only destabilise even more seriously.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon, and in particular its framework agreement. it is the update of the euro-mediterranean agreements, which are the southern arm of the neighbourhood policy. lebanon is currently experiencing destabilization with a massive influx of syrian refugees (more than 1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees. furthermore, the repeated incursions by the islamic state and the ongoing marginalization of the sunni minority are not encouraging signs. the eu does not need to get involved in conflicts of this kind, which still flout the sovereignty of european states, in order to try to make people believe that european diplomacy should be a matter of national policies only. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ lebanon does not need the eu to interfere in its affairs; it suffers from the problems of the mass arrival of syrian refugees in addition to palestinian refugees. he added that the eu does not have to play an international role. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the euro-mediterranean agreements ratified under the european union's neighbourhood policy. lebanon is currently experiencing serious internal unrest, caused in particular by the massive arrival of syrian migrants, who are added to the palestinian refugees. the country of the cedar also suffers from the bloody incursions of the islamic state. however, the european union has demonstrated in the past that it has no legitimacy and credibility to interfere in the internal affairs of a third country. on the one hand, the union must respect the principle of non-interference; on the other hand, foreign policy remains the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is a recommendation by the european parliament on the council's proposal to conclude the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and the republic of lebanon. that protocol contains a framework agreement laying down the general principles, financial and technical rules for the participation of the lebanese republic in union programmes. the objective of this protocol is to define the scope of certain union programmes. i supported this report because i believe that eu cooperation with lebanon is essential.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. as a partner country of the european neighbourhood policy since 2004, lebanon will participate in union programmes and benefit from union assistance. the objective of this protocol is to promote reforms and modernisation in lebanon.
in writing. ‒ this text on eu-lebanon relations is part of the update of the euro-mediterranean agreements. the latter constitute the southern part of the neighbourhood policy. lebanon is destabilised by the arrival of some 1.5 million syrian refugees in addition to palestinian refugees. in addition, the islamic state group has launched bloody incursions. not only does the complexity of the lebanese issues and the political context of this country seem to escape the european oligarchy, but it should be remembered that the eu is not meant to play a role on the international stage. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it should be remembered that the eu does not have to play an international role.
in writing. ‒ these texts are an update of the euro-mediterranean agreements, which are the southern arm of the neighbourhood policy. they concern eu-lebanon relations in the first case and the enlargement of the eu to the various new countries in the other two. lebanon is now experiencing further destabilisation with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalisation of the sunni minority. this country does not need the intervention of the european union as an additional problem. i have opposed these three texts on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol, which will allow lebanon to conclude agreements to participate in new community programmes adopted in parallel with the union's multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the protocol will enable lebanon to participate in certain community programmes (research, innovation, support for smes, environment) on the same terms as eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this protocol because i believe that the european union should not have an international role.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. the country is now experiencing further destabilization with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalization of the sunni minority, which does not bode well. it does not need the european union as an additional problem to meddle in its affairs, the subtleties of the lebanese political game completely escaping the community oligarchy, as the last session of the subcommittee on security and defence showed. it should also be remembered that the european union does not have to play an international role.
in writing. ‒ lebanon, since the civil war (1975-1990), has been struggling to recover. new factors are complicating its recovery, including the massive influx of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees and the bloody attacks by the islamic state. the eu's updating of the euro-mediterranean agreements is therefore of no help to the lebanese government, as the subtle workings of the lebanese political balance are beyond the reach of the european elites. it is better to curb any intention of interference by the eu, which does not have to take the place of the member states in international politics. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against all three reports. three reports are put to the vote in the european parliament. these texts are the concrete expression of the euro-mediterranean policy of the european union. in this case, we oppose any interference in the affairs of the lebanese state. in addition to the very principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, the country is currently experiencing a situation of great instability, due to the massive immigration of syrian and palestinian refugees and the recurrent attacks by the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is currently experiencing serious internal difficulties. the arrival of 1.5 million syrian exiles is in addition to the number of palestinian refugees already present. i believe that this country does not need the european union in its affairs, which has no legitimacy in a foreign policy role. moreover, the very limited understanding of the union of the phenomena occurring in that state makes it possible to make a justified reservation on that agreement. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the eu has no international role to play. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament's approval for the conclusion of a framework agreement between the european union and the lebanese republic on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in certain union programmes, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, which aims to foster relations between the eu and non-member countries on issues such as security, stability and the economy;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol, which contains a framework agreement on the general principles (mainly technical and financial rules) of lebanon's participation in various european union programmes, in particular in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament's approval to the conclusion by the council of a protocol to the eu-lebanon euro-mediterranean agreement. that protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in union programmes. it includes standard conditions and defines the financial and technical rules allowing lebanon to participate in certain union programmes. the european parliament voted to give lebanon conditions if it wants to participate in eu programmes such as horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this protocol because the european union does not have to play an international role and because the subtleties of the lebanese political game are completely beyond the reach of the community oligarchy.
in writing. ‒ these texts concern the updating of the euro-mediterranean agreements, which are the southern arm of the neighbourhood policy. they concern eu-lebanon relations in the first case and enlargement to the various new countries in the other two. i voted against these texts, which constitute an interference by the european union in the affairs of a state already facing the massive arrival of refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalisation of the sunni minority in the country. the eu has no international role to play.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the european union has strategic relations with lebanon. we support the stability and security of this country in a region of the world which is experiencing great turbulence. lebanon's participation in eu programmes is a means of providing concrete support for these strategic objectives.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text constitutes an update of the euro-mediterranean agreements. it concerns eu-lebanon relations in the first case and the enlargement of the eu to the various new countries in the other two. lebanon is now experiencing further destabilisation with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees. it does not need the european union as an additional problem to meddle in its affairs. the subtleties of the lebanese political game are completely beyond the reach of the community oligarchy, and i voted against the protocol.
in writing. ‒ this agreement, which updates the southern strand of the neighbourhood policy, concerns the extension of eu-lebanon relations to the various countries that have recently joined the eu. i voted against it, considering that there is no justification for the union to dictate its foreign policy to the member states. i would also not accept that an agreement whose adverse effects on both lebanon and my country i denounce should be extended to other countries.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon to follow the 2004 enlargement and the 8 new countries joining at that time: cyprus, malta, estonia, hungary, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia and slovenia. as in the previous recommendation, the eu has no international role to play and foreign policy should be a matter for the states. lebanon does not need european interference in its national problems. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ lebanon does not need the eu to interfere in its affairs; it suffers from the problems of the mass arrival of syrian refugees in addition to palestinian refugees. he added that the eu does not have to play an international role. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the euro-mediterranean agreements ratified under the european union's neighbourhood policy. lebanon is currently experiencing serious internal unrest, caused in particular by the massive arrival of syrian migrants, who are added to the palestinian refugees. the country of cedars is also suffering from the bloody incursions of the islamic state. however, the european union has demonstrated in the past that it has no legitimacy and credibility to interfere in the internal affairs of a third country. on the one hand, the union must respect the principle of non-interference; on the other hand, foreign policy remains the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is a recommendation by the european parliament on the council's proposal to conclude a euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and the lebanese republic. the purpose of this protocol is to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. considering that eu cooperation with lebanon is essential and that the 2004 enlargement should be taken into account, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported the report on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon to include the 10 member states of the 2004 enlargement. the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia are to be integrated into the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ this text on eu-lebanon relations is part of the update of the euro-mediterranean agreements. the latter constitute the southern part of the neighbourhood policy. lebanon is destabilised by the arrival of some 1.5 million syrian refugees in addition to palestinian refugees. in addition, the islamic state group has launched a bloody incursion. not only does the complexity of the lebanese issues and the political context of this country seem to escape the european oligarchy, but it should be remembered that the eu is not meant to play a role on the international stage. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i vote against: it should be remembered that the eu does not have to play an international role.
in writing. ‒ these texts are an update of the euro-mediterranean agreements, which are the southern arm of the neighbourhood policy. they concern eu-lebanon relations in the first case and the enlargement of the eu to the various new countries in the other two. lebanon is now experiencing further destabilisation with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalisation of the sunni minority. this country does not need the intervention of the european union as an additional problem. i have opposed these three texts on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to ensure that the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the union and lebanon takes account of the accession of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. this component takes account of the enlargement of the european union in 2004. the country is now experiencing further destabilization with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalization of the sunni minority, which does not bode well. it does not need the european union as an additional problem to meddle in its affairs. the subtleties of the lebanese political game are completely beyond the reach of the community oligarchy, as the last meeting of the subcommittee on security and defence showed. it should also be remembered that the european union does not have to play an international role.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to integrate the new member states into the euro-mediterranean agreements linking the european union and lebanon. although the text is the logical continuation of the integration process, i believe that the eu should not replace the member states in international policy. the country of the cedar is suffering from major destabilisation, such as the massive arrivals of syrian migrants (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees and the bloody and unexpected attacks by the islamic state, and does not need further european interference. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against all three reports. three reports are put to the vote in the european parliament. these texts are the concrete expression of the euro-mediterranean policy of the european union. in this case, we oppose any interference in the affairs of the lebanese state. in addition to the very principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, the country is currently experiencing a situation of great instability, due to the massive immigration of syrian and palestinian refugees and the recurrent attacks by the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is currently experiencing serious internal difficulties. the arrival of 1.5 million syrian exiles is in addition to the number of palestinian refugees already present. i believe that this country does not need the european union in its affairs, which has no legitimacy in a foreign policy role. moreover, the very limited understanding of the union of the phenomena occurring in that state makes it possible to make a justified reservation on that agreement. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the eu has no international role to play. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposed the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and the lebanese republic. as member countries of the european union, these states naturally add to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical adjustment to take account of the accession of several states to the european union in 2004 and thus to allow them to be included in the cooperation framework of the euro-mediterranean agreement between the union and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows the 2004 enlargement of the european union to be taken into account in the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. the european parliament voted in favour of the council's decision to include the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia in the framework of the european union's relations with lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this protocol because the european union does not have to play an international role and because the subtleties of the lebanese political game are completely beyond the grasp of the community oligarchy.
in writing. ‒ these texts concern the updating of the euro-mediterranean agreements, which are the southern arm of the neighbourhood policy. they concern eu-lebanon relations in the first case and enlargement to the various new countries in the other two. i voted against these texts, which constitute an interference by the european union in the affairs of a state already facing the massive arrival of refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalisation of the sunni minority in the country. the eu has no international role to play.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the european union has strategic relations with lebanon. we support the stability and security of this country in a region of the world which is experiencing great turbulence. lebanon's participation in eu programmes is a means of providing concrete support for these strategic objectives.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text constitutes an update of the euro-mediterranean agreements. it concerns eu-lebanon relations in the first case and the enlargement of the eu to the various new countries in the other two. lebanon is now experiencing further destabilisation with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees. it does not need the european union as an additional problem to meddle in its affairs. the subtleties of the lebanese political game are completely beyond the reach of the community oligarchy, and i voted against the protocol.
in writing. ‒ this agreement, which updates the southern part of the neighbourhood policy, concerns the extension of eu-lebanon relations to the various countries that have recently entered the fray. i voted against this text, considering that nothing authorises the union to dictate its foreign policy to the member states. i would also not accept that an agreement whose adverse effects on both lebanon and my country i denounce should be extended to other countries.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon to follow the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu in 2007. as in the previous recommendation, the eu has no international role to play and foreign policy should be a matter for the states. lebanon does not need european interference in its national problems. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ lebanon does not need the eu to interfere in its affairs; it suffers from the problems of the mass arrival of syrian refugees in addition to palestinian refugees. he added that the eu does not have to play an international role. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to update the euro-mediterranean agreements ratified under the european union's neighbourhood policy. lebanon is currently experiencing serious internal unrest, caused in particular by the massive arrival of syrian migrants, who are added to the palestinian refugees. the country of the cedar also suffers from the bloody incursions of the islamic state. the european union has demonstrated in the past that it has no legitimacy and credibility to interfere in the internal affairs of a third country. on the one hand, the union must respect the principle of non-interference; on the other hand, foreign policy remains the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is a recommendation by the european parliament on the council's proposal to conclude the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and the lebanese republic. the purpose of this protocol is to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. considering that the european union's cooperation with lebanon is essential and that account should be taken of the 2007 enlargement, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon, taking into account the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. having joined the european union in 2007, bulgaria and romania should be integrated into the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ this text on eu-lebanon relations is part of the update of the euro-mediterranean agreements. the latter constitute the southern part of the neighbourhood policy. lebanon is destabilised by the arrival of some 1.5 million syrian refugees in addition to palestinian refugees. in addition, the islamic state group has launched bloody incursions. not only does the complexity of the lebanese issues and the political context of this country seem to escape the european oligarchy, but it should be remembered that the eu is not meant to play a role on the international stage. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it should be remembered that the eu does not have to play an international role.
in writing. ‒ these texts are an update of the euro-mediterranean agreements, which are the southern arm of the neighbourhood policy. they concern eu-lebanon relations in the first case and the enlargement of the eu to the various new countries in the other two. lebanon is now experiencing further destabilisation with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalisation of the sunni minority. this country does not need the intervention of the european union as an additional problem. i have opposed these three texts on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to ensure that the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the union and lebanon takes account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. this component takes account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union in 2004. the country is now experiencing further destabilization with the mass arrival of syrian refugees (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees, the bloody incursions of the islamic state and the ongoing marginalization of the sunni minority, which does not bode well. it does not need the european union as an additional problem to meddle in its affairs, the subtleties of the lebanese political game completely escaping the community oligarchy, as the last session of the subcommittee on security and defence showed. it should also be remembered that the european union does not have to play an international role.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to integrate bulgaria and romania into the euro-mediterranean agreements linking the european union and lebanon. it is therefore a continuation of the process of integrating these new member states into all european agreements and treaties. however, i do not think that the eu should take the place of the member states in international policy. the country of the cedar is suffering from major destabilisation, such as the massive arrivals of syrian migrants (1.5 million) in addition to palestinian refugees, and the bloody and unexpected attacks by the islamic state, and does not need further european interference. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against all three reports. three reports are put to the vote in the european parliament. these texts are the concrete expression of the euro-mediterranean policy of the european union. in this case, we oppose any interference in the affairs of the lebanese state. in addition to the very principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, the country is currently experiencing a situation of great instability, due to the massive immigration of syrian and palestinian refugees and the recurrent attacks by the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ lebanon is currently experiencing serious internal difficulties. the arrival of 1.5 million syrian exiles is in addition to the number of palestinian refugees already present. i believe that this country does not need the european union in its affairs, which has no legitimacy in a foreign policy role. moreover, the very limited understanding of the union of the phenomena occurring in that state makes it possible to make a justified reservation on that agreement. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the eu has no international role to play. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposed the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and the republic of lebanon. as member states of the european union, the republic of bulgaria and romania are naturally added to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical adjustment to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union in 2007, and thus to allow them to be included in the cooperation framework of the euro-mediterranean agreement between the union and lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows the 2007 enlargement of the european union to be taken into account in the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. the european parliament voted in favour of the council's decision to include bulgaria and romania in the framework of the european union's relations with lebanon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement between the eu and monaco to increase cooperation against tax evasion and tax fraud. as with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino, i support this type of agreement, which provides for the automatic exchange of information on account receipts, but also on account balances and the proceeds of the sale of assets, with the aim of eradicating tax evasion and avoidance at the doorstep of europe.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, as part of the series of agreements between the eu and neighbouring states to increase cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. these agreements were one of the conditions set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy two years ago. the aim was to avoid tax havens at the eu's doorstep, where fraudsters could take refuge. the automatic exchange of information will still cover the income of accounts but also their balance and the proceeds of the disposal of assets. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this protocol concerns the agreement on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts signed on 22 february between the eu and the principality of monaco; it is part of a series of agreements between the eu and neighbouring states to increase cooperation against tax evasion and tax fraud. for the record, these agreements were one of the conditions set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy two years ago. the aim was to avoid tax havens at the eu's doorstep or within it, where fraudsters could take refuge. i had supported the previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an agreement between the european union and monaco providing for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the agreement, signed in february, aims to increase cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. this agreement was one of the conditions set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy two years ago to avoid tax havens on the eu's doorstep even though many tax havens still exist within the eu itself, and the various media scandals prove this to us regularly. the automatic exchange of information will still cover the income of accounts but also their balance and the proceeds of the disposal of assets. we have previously supported the agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino, so it is obvious that we will symbolically support this one which will come into force on 1 january 2017. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on 22 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, to increase cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. as we have done for switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino, we should support this symbolic agreement. therefore, i am voting in favour of this agreement with monaco.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, as part of a series of agreements between the union and neighbouring states to strengthen the fight against tax evasion. this agreement was a condition set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy. this automatic exchange of information covers financial income as well as proceeds from the disposal of assets. we consider these agreements to be a step in the right direction. they not only contribute effectively to the fight against tax evasion but also respect the sovereignty of the member states. that is why i have approved this text.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the protocol to the agreement between the european union and monaco providing for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. this agreement is another success in terms of tax transparency. it should enable the tax administrations of the member states and monaco to strengthen their cooperation. this will make them more effective in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. the new agreement will enable tax administrations to identify the taxpayers concerned, to enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations and to assess the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ this report is a recommendation on the council's proposal to conclude the agreement between the eu and the principality of monaco, providing for measures equivalent to those provided for in the european directives. the aim is to ensure that the principality continues to apply measures equivalent to those of the european union. under the agreement, the european union and monaco will automatically exchange information on the bank accounts of their residents as of 2017. the information to be exchanged concerns income, such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and profits from the sale of financial assets. considering that the european union must tighten up its rules in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and that cooperation with our closest neighbours is essential to make this fight more effective, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the aim is to increase cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. for the record, this type of agreement was one of the conditions set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy two years ago. the automatic exchange of information will still cover the income of accounts but also their balance and the proceeds of the disposal of assets. after having supported the previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino, i logically supported this agreement, which will enter into force on 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ i vote for: we have already supported the previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, as part of the series of agreements between the eu and neighbouring states. this series was aimed at increasing cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. for the record, these agreements were one of the conditions set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy two years ago. the aim was to avoid tax havens at the eu's doorstep, where fraudsters could take refuge. the automatic exchange of information will still cover the income of accounts but also their balance and the proceeds of the disposal of assets. the enl group supported the previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino. the one with monaco is obviously symbolic, and it was also appropriate to support it, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol, which aims to implement, between the eu and monaco, the global standards of the oecd, specifically those on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and the automatic exchange of tax information between the eu and monaco. this will help to strengthen the fight against tax evasion within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement with monaco because it aims to increase cooperation in the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and monaco on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. on 22 february 2016, the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts, as part of the series of agreements between the eu and neighbouring states aimed at increasing cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. for the record, these agreements were one of the conditions set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy two years ago. the aim was to avoid tax havens at the eu's doorstep, where fraudsters could take refuge. the automatic exchange of information will still cover the income of accounts but also their balance and the proceeds of the disposal of assets. the national front supported the previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino. the one with monaco is obviously symbolic, and it should also be supported.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, agreements were reached with the member states to end bank secrecy, as part of the fight against tax evasion and fraud. the texts provided for the establishment of further agreements with neighbouring states to establish cooperation links and automatic exchanges of information on financial accounts, in accordance with the conditions laid down by luxembourg and austria. after switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino, the eu concludes an agreement with monaco, which is subject to the european parliament's approval by this report. i support this policy of transparency by voting for it.
in writing. - i voted for this report. these agreements follow similar agreements signed with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino. the signing of an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts by monaco was a condition for lifting the banking secrecy imposed by luxembourg and austria two years ago. in the absence of the latter, the principality of monaco would have established itself as the leading destination for tax evasion in europe. we can only support the aim of this report, which is to increase financial transparency. in addition, our vote is consistent with our vote on the previous reports.
in writing. ‒ monaco and the european union signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts at the end of february to increase their cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. this is in line with what has been done previously for san marino, andorra, switzerland and lichtenstein. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this agreement, which seals the automatic exchange of information between eu countries and the principality of monaco in tax matters, is the continuation of efforts to end bank secrecy. monaco is a particularly accommodating place for capital of dubious origin, so there is an even greater need to support the rapid implementation of this agreement. the enl group supported the previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino and andorra.
in writing. ‒ this text is useful in the fight against tax evasion and is therefore beneficial to the budgets of the member states. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu/monaco agreement providing for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, in order to avoid financial concealment as far as possible. at a time when, according to commission estimates, tax fraud and tax avoidance cost european taxpayers up to €1 trillion a year, we must do everything we can to combat this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement with monaco on the exchange of tax information, because i see it as another step towards fair tax collection. the fact that this is an agreement with a state as closely linked to the eu as the principality of monaco is particularly important.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical text which allows the protocol to the agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts to be amended. this agreement essentially allows the same level of measures relating to financial accounts to apply outside the eu's borders and here in monaco.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, in which our assembly endorses an agreement reached in february this year between the european union and monaco on the establishment of an automatic exchange of information on the bank accounts of residents of both signatory parties, which will start in 2018 for information collected since 1 january 2017. the formal signing of the agreement is expected this summer. the agreement provides for the application of enhanced measures equivalent to those in place in the union since march 2014. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial institutions in question are in a position to provide the information requested by the commission. the agreement is a necessary new step in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, since it will be more difficult for a person to conceal money that is liable to be taxed. tax administrations will be able to identify the taxpayers involved, administer and strengthen their tax laws in cross-border cases or assess the likelihood of tax evasion. this agreement is similar to the agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein and san marino, which i also supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the protocol to the agreement between the european union and monaco providing for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. this agreement complements those concluded with switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein and san marino, providing for equivalent measures. the importance of automatic exchange of information has been recognised internationally as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud and evasion. in this context, the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) was tasked by the g20 to develop a single global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information. it is through effective bilateral cooperation that we will succeed in combating and ending tax evasion. this type of agreement not only meets an economic need but also an expectation of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ on 22 february 2016, the european union and the principality of monaco signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, as part of the series of agreements between the eu and neighbouring states aimed at increasing cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. for the record, these agreements were one of the conditions set by luxembourg and austria to end their banking secrecy two years ago. the aim was to avoid tax havens at the eu's doorstep, where fraudsters could take refuge. the automatic exchange of information will still cover the income of accounts but also their balance and the proceeds of the disposal of assets. we have supported the previous agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino. the one with monaco is obviously symbolic, and it should also be supported. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim of this report is to mobilise eur 1.824 million to reintegrate into the labour market 488 workers made redundant by 3 companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, as well as to support 300 young people without a job, training or qualification (neet). even if this kind of disaster is only a consequence of the eu's free trade policies, i am a defender of these workers and therefore support the granting of this aid.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide €1.824 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by 3 companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, as well as support for 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications (neet). belgium cites globalisation as the main reason for the crisis in the sector, but also the decline in public and private investment which has depressed demand for machinery. i voted in favour of this text in order to support the workers who are made redundant and who must not suffer the consequences of the actions decided by the eu (free trade in all its forms, austerity, etc.), even if these aids must not relieve governments of their responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the globalisation adjustment fund to be mobilised to help financially reintegrate 488 workers made redundant in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, and to support 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications. according to the belgian authorities, globalisation is the main reason for the crisis in this sector, but the decline in public and private investment must also be taken into account. while we must support workers who are made redundant and who must not suffer the consequences of free trade measures decided by the eu, we must not allow such aid to relieve governments of their responsibility.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide €1.824 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by 3 companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, as well as support for 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications (neet). the explanations given by belgium and the company for this redundancy are many: production of construction machinery in free fall, rise in the price of steel, rise in unit costs (hence the justification for relocations, etc.). i voted for this report to support the workers, but i still think that the eu is playing the pyromaniac fireman with this report by now supporting what it has helped to achieve by rejecting protectionism and its ultra-liberalism.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide €1.824 million to help reintegrate 488 workers made redundant by 3 companies into the labour market and to support 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications. we must support these laid-off workers, who must not be dependent on the acts decided by the eu (austerity, free trade), without however relieving governments of their responsibility. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise €1.824 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 488 workers made redundant by three machinery manufacturing companies in hainaut, belgium. this is to help reintegrate these workers into the labour market and to support 300 young unskilled jobseekers. belgium, like all western countries, is subject to unfair international competition, exacerbated by social and environmental dumping by emerging countries. in these circumstances, it is necessary to put an end to generalised free trade and to the austerity policies imposed by the commission on the member states; the latter have weighed heavily on the decline in the level of public investment in europe. i therefore voted in favour of mobilising the fund, which does not provide any lasting solution to the disastrous consequences of unbridled globalisation.
in writing. ‒ in the age of globalisation, workers are the first victims of the structural changes in international trade. they must therefore be protected and supported against redundancies caused by increased global competition. recently, the decline in investment in infrastructure and the rise in steel prices in europe have led to a loss of competitiveness for european construction machinery factories. belgium has requested the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this request was validated by the european commission. 488 redundant employees of hainaut machinery will thus be able to benefit from financial aid to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. community aid will also benefit 300 young people without jobs or training. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ hainaut machinery belgium has applied for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the company specialises in the manufacture of automotive machinery and equipment in the hainaut region. the company hainaut machinery is asking for € 1 824 041 to be mobilised for 488 redundant workers. the european commission considers that the impact of these redundancies on the local and regional economy and on employment is significant. the manufacturing sector as a whole reduced its output in wallonia, with 1 236 job cuts in 2013 and 1 878 in 2014. i have supported this report because i believe that the european union must promote the transition of declining sectors to a competitive economic model and the retraining of workers.
in writing. the european commission's proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to enable belgium to receive financial contributions from the egf to support the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market. since belgium has complied with the conditions for granting financial contributions from the egf and the redundancies are due to the decline in public and private investment in infrastructure within the union and the significant increase in the price of steel in europe, i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide eur 1.82 million in aid for the reintegration of 488 workers made redundant by three companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, belgium. it also offers support to 300 young people without a job, training or qualification (known as neet). belgium cites globalisation as the main reason for the crisis in this sector, but also the decline in public and private investment which has depressed demand in the machinery sector. while it is appropriate to support workers who have been made redundant, who must not suffer the consequences of the eu's decisions (generalized free trade, austerity, etc.), such aid must not relieve governments of their responsibility. i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ vote for: supporting workers who are made redundant, who must not suffer the consequences of the actions decided by the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide €1.824 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by 3 companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, as well as support for 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications (neet). belgium cites globalisation as the main reason for the crisis in the sector, but also the decline in public and private investment which has depressed demand for machinery. while we must support workers who have been made redundant, who must not suffer the consequences of the eu's decisions (free trade without limits, austerity, etc.), these aids must not relieve governments of their responsibility. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to mobilise, at the request of belgium, the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 1 824 041 to help workers made redundant in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector in the province of hainaut. this amount is intended to help finance support, guidance, integration and training measures for redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims in particular to grant €1.824 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut (belgium).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following the request concerning hainaut machinery. the report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide €1.824 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by three companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, as well as support for 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications. belgium cites globalisation as the main reason for the crisis in the sector, but also the decline in public and private investment which has depressed demand for machinery. while we must support workers who have been made redundant, who must not suffer the consequences of the eu's decisions (free trade at all costs, austerity, etc.), these aids must not relieve governments of their responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the mobilization adjustment fund is a european aid for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, to help them reintegrate into the labour market. this is currently the case for 488 employees of 3 companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut. the rapporteur proposes to give them, as well as 300 young people without jobs or qualifications, aid of eur 1.824 million. i support this proposal because i believe that european citizens should not have to suffer the consequences of the disastrous eu policies (free trade agreements, austerity, etc.). but it is necessary that governments take responsibility and not just go along with this aid. i vote in favour of its implementation.
in writing. - i voted for this report. we express the same customary reservations with regard to the european globalisation adjustment fund (hereinafter referred to as the 'emf'), which should not be used to relieve governments and the european union of their responsibilities in the field of the economy and employment. however, we cannot oppose this financial aid of eur 1.824 million for the 488 workers laid off in the machinery sector in hainaut and 300 young people without jobs or training.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed that the globalisation adjustment fund should help with the redundancies of 488 workers and 300 young people without qualifications. in principle, i disapprove of the existence of this fund, because it makes companies irresponsible for their relocations. i am not unaware of this phenomenon which raises questions about the usefulness of this fund. it also prevents the states from worrying about unfair competition in free trade. however, it is right to help these workers to reintegrate. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide €1.824 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by 3 companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, as well as support for 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications. belgium cites globalisation as the main reason for the crisis in the sector, but also the decline in public and private investment which has depressed demand for machinery. this action should be supported, even if it is only a modest compensation by the eu for workers who are being made vulnerable by its ultra-liberal policies.
in writing. - i vote for this aid to workers who are victims of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help three belgian companies specialising in the production of parts and assembly of machinery used in the construction sector to finance the support, guidance, integration, training, start-up aid and job search allowance of 488 redundant workers. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall support employees whose redundancies are due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, to the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or to a new global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in international trade, such as relocations or business closures. in this case, 488 former employees of the belgian company hainaut machinery will receive a total of €1.8 million to finance measures such as support, guidance, aid for the creation of businesses or jobsearch allowances.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund to provide €1.824 million in aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by 3 companies in the machinery manufacturing sector in hainaut, as well as support for 300 young people without jobs, training or qualifications (neet). belgium cites globalisation as the main reason for the crisis in the sector, but also the decline in public and private investment which has depressed demand for machinery. while we must support workers who are made redundant and suffer the consequences of eu decisions, we must not allow aid to relieve governments of their responsibility. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which, despite some problems (the commission's request for delegated acts, only a few tuna vessels benefiting from the reconstituted stocks), makes it possible to respect the codecision procedure established between the european commission and parliament. the text also makes it possible to defend small-scale fishing (madrague) and not to go beyond the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), as the commission wanted.
in writing. ‒ tuna stocks have been restored. the debate is about simply transposing the convention of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the european commission, wanting to act very quickly, is asking to be able to make delegated acts. but the rapporteur defended the co-decision procedure in order to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament. only a few tuna fishermen benefit from the stocks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment. the commission states that it will grant these traditional fishing methods a special advantageous regime. the commission wanted to go beyond the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. meps voted against the proposal by amendment. the amended proposal thus makes it possible to respect the codecision procedure, to defend small-scale fishing methods (madrague) and not to go beyond the iccat recommendations. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the debate is about the mere transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. in addition, this report defends the co-decision procedure and the prerogatives of the european parliament, whereas the commission is asking for delegated acts under the pretext of being able to act more quickly. finally, against the commission's wish to go beyond the iccat recommendations, this report aims instead at better compliance with the current guidelines; i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks. there are several problems with this text. only a few tuna fishermen benefit from the stocks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. however, traditional fishing methods for bluefin tuna, such as madrague, need to be protected because they are environmentally friendly. the commission is proposing that these traditional fishing methods should benefit from a special favourable regime. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this draft regulation on the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean presented three problems. the first problem is that the european commission, wanting to act as quickly as possible, is asking for the power to adopt delegated acts. there is also the problem of the exclusion of small-scale fishing, with only a minority of tuna fishermen exploiting the stocks. the last problem raised concerns the commission, which wanted to go beyond the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the amended proposal puts an end to these problems by allowing the codecision procedure to be respected, by defending small-scale fishing methods such as madrague and by not going beyond the iccat recommendations. it is for these different solutions that i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to transpose into eu law the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsta) concerning bluefin tuna. in 2006, iccat adopted a multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan which will end in 2022. the total allowable catches (tacs) for bluefin tuna were progressively reduced from 2006 onwards, reaching their lowest level in 2012. the tacs for bluefin tuna in the area of the north sea and the north-east atlantic, as set out in annex i to regulation (ec) no 1967/2005, are set out in annex i to regulation (ec) no 1967/2006. the measures taken in recent years have therefore borne fruit. the significant improvement in bluefin tuna stocks is the direct consequence. i welcome this and invite the commission to continue to work closely with iccat to ensure sustainable exploitation of bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst). the rapporteur considers that the commission is correctly transposing the relevant iccat recommendations, but would like to recall that the objective of transposing the recommendations is to have a uniform application throughout the union. i supported this report, considering that this multiannual plan will establish an economically viable bluefin tuna fishery model while ensuring the sustainability and sound management of fishing activities.
in writing. i supported the report on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. the acts adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst) are binding and it is important that they be transposed into union law in order to restore bluefin tuna stocks. the strict fishing conditions laid down in this plan must be respected.
in writing. ‒ since a few tuna fishermen benefit from the bluefin tuna stocks, small-scale fishing is largely excluded. however, the european commission and the members of the committee on fisheries have stressed the protection that must be given to traditional methods of fishing for bluefin tuna, such as madrague. these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment. the commission states that it wishes to grant them a special advantageous scheme. the amended text also makes it possible to respect the codecision procedure and not go beyond the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: overall, the amended proposal respects the codecision procedure, defends small-scale fishing (madrague) and does not go beyond the iccat recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the debate is about the mere transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention. the amended proposal allows the codecision procedure to be respected, small-scale fishing (madrague) to be defended and iccat recommendations to be respected. i naturally voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation aims to transpose into union law the measures contained in the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this plan was adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, of which the eu is a member. the text provides for favourable treatment of small-scale and traditional fishermen when allocating fishing quotas for bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to protect bluefin tuna stocks, which previous measures have helped to restore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks. these stocks have been replenished. the debate is about simply transposing the convention of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. only a few tuna fishermen benefit from the stocks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. however, the european commission and the members of the committee on fisheries stress the protection that must be granted to traditional methods of fishing for bluefin tuna, such as madrague. these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment. the commission states that it will grant these traditional fishing methods a special advantageous regime. the amended proposal allows the codecision procedure to be respected, small-scale fishing (madrague) to be defended and iccat recommendations to be respected.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it aims to implement the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention, which recommends better protection of tuna and traditional fishing methods. the overall text is part of the european multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the commission is attempting to take on more powers and go beyond the iccat recommendations, which is opposed by the text put to the vote.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this is simply a transposition of the iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) convention, which takes note of the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks. unlike the original decision of the european commission, the codecision procedure allows the opinion of the european parliament to be taken fully into account. in addition to these two reasons for satisfaction, we welcome the european commission's announced intention to introduce a specific scheme that benefits traditional fisheries, which are the big losers in the management of tuna stocks.
in writing. ‒ it is simply a transposition of the convention of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the problem is that only a few tuna fishermen are taking advantage of the stocks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the amendments adopted make it possible to enforce the codecision procedure in order to limit the commission's wish to go beyond the measured recommendations of iccat. this text in favour of small-scale fishing seems to me to be balanced. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ overall, the amended proposal respects the codecision procedure, defends small-scale fishing (madrague) and does not go beyond the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. so it can be supported.
in writing. ‒ overall, the amended proposal respects the codecision procedure and defends small-scale fishing. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to incorporate all the measures of the bluefin tuna recovery plans into a regulation, in order to ensure uniform and effective application. the report provides for technical measures, such as the use of stereoscopic cameras to examine tuna stocks, but also for requirements, in particular on the implementation of the regional observer programme of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icta), which adopted in 2006 a multiannual plan to restore bluefin tuna stocks until 2022. i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to incorporate all the measures adopted under the stock replenishment plan into a regulation.
in writing. ‒ bluefin tuna stocks have been restored. the debate today is about the mere transposition of the iccat convention. problems: - the european commission, wanting to act very quickly, requests to be able to take delegated acts - only a few tuna vessels benefit from the stocks; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. however, the european commission and the members of the committee on fisheries stress the protection that must be granted to traditional methods of fishing for bluefin tuna, such as madrague. these fishing methods are very selective and therefore respectful of the environment. the commission states that it will grant these traditional fishing methods a special advantageous regime. - the commission wanted to go beyond the iccat recommendations. the committee on fisheries voted against the amendment. the amended proposal allows the codecision procedure to be respected, small-scale fishing (madrague) to be defended and iccat recommendations to be respected. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ overfishing is putting the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat at risk. i voted in favour of this text which insists that the most recent studies of the ices (international council for the exploration of the sea) be taken into account and that the relevant advisory councils be consulted. it is also provided that when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council.
in writing. ‒ overfishing is putting the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat at risk. scientific advice has established that the current exploitation of the stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. the commission did not want to wait for further studies by the international council for the exploration of the sea before implementing the multiannual plan. the draft provides for the delegation of many technical measures to the commission. the draft, as amended, insists that the most recent ices studies be taken into account and that the relevant advisory councils be consulted. it is also provided that when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ overfishing is putting the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat at risk. scientific advice has established that the current exploitation of the stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. the draft, as amended by the fisheries committee, insists that the most recent studies by the ices (international council for the exploration of the sea) be taken into account and that the relevant advisory councils be effectively consulted. it is also provided that when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which respects our marine fauna and the prerogatives of parliament, the only elected body of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on fisheries on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the committee on fisheries has had the good fortune to amend the original proposal to take account of the most recent studies by the international council for the exploration of the sea, which have shown that the current exploitation of stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. the committee on fisheries also ensured that there was more transparency in delegated acts and that the commission transmitted the relevant documents to the european parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ the draft, as amended by the members of the committee on fisheries, insists that the most recent ices studies be taken into account (unlike the commission, which did not want to wait for them) and that the relevant advisory councils be consulted. it is also provided that, when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ multiannual management plans are the main instruments for fisheries management under the common fisheries policy. they make it possible to plan a set of measures, including fishing opportunities, in the long term. this management plan is the first to be drawn up under the rules of the new common fisheries policy (reformed in 2013), which requires, inter alia, the management of fish stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy). this file has been very difficult. parliament and the council negotiated in a trilogue for 10 months before reaching an agreement. the agreement reached is balanced. it is also a means of unblocking the management plans for the other maritime basins, which were conditional on an agreement on this first new generation plan. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on multiannual plans, which are key instruments for sustainable management and recovery of fish stocks. these long-term strategies aim to improve not only the conservation of stocks but also the long-term visibility for fishermen. in october 2014, the commission proposed a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. one of the major reforms of the new multi-species management plan is the phasing out of the allowable catch quotas to ensure the sustainability of fisheries. i supported this report, considering that this multiannual plan will establish an economically viable model of fisheries while ensuring the sustainability and sound management of fishing activities in the baltic sea.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. as the stocks concerned are interdependent, a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea is necessary. the multiannual plan shall include safeguard measures to reduce fishing opportunities where scientific advice indicates that a stock is threatened. this helps to reduce the negative impact of fishing activities on the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat are threatened by overfishing, as the current exploitation of stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. the commission did not wish to wait for further studies by the ices (international council for the exploration of the sea) before implementing this multiannual plan. the draft provides for the delegation of many technical measures to the commission. the draft, as amended by the members of the committee on fisheries, insists that the most recent ices studies be taken into account as well as the opinion of the relevant advisory councils. it is also provided that, when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council. in view of these conditions, i voted in favour of this text, which is in favour of the conservation of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the draft, as amended by the members of the committee on fisheries, insists that the most recent ices studies be taken into account and that the relevant advisory councils be consulted. it is also provided that, when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council.
in writing. ‒ this text highlights the consequences of overfishing, which is endangering the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. the draft, as amended by the members of the committee on fisheries, insists that the most recent studies of the international council for the exploration of the sea be taken into account and that the relevant advisory councils be consulted. it is also provided that, when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this multiannual plan for the baltic cod, herring and sprat stocks, which will ensure sustainable management and the recovery of fish stocks. the text aims not only to improve the conservation of fish stocks but also to give fishermen long-term visibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and the fisheries exploiting these stocks. overfishing is putting the baltic sea's cod, herring and sprat stocks at risk. scientific advice has established that the current exploitation of the stocks is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. the draft, as amended by the members of the committee on fisheries, insists that the most recent ices studies be taken into account and that the relevant advisory councils be consulted. it is also provided that, when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the text is to define and implement the multiannual plan proposed by the commission to combat overfishing in the baltic sea. indeed, many scientific opinions warn the authorities against the depletion of stocks. the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) is in the process of developing new studies for their conservation. the text requires the commission to take account of this research before drawing up its final annual plan. however, it delegates to it many technical measures. despite this, the text as a whole is positive, so i logically voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this report. we support this draft, which has been amended substantially by the committee on fisheries of the european parliament. in this case, the aim was to insist on taking account of the studies of the international council for the exploration of the sea on the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, which are severely affected by overfishing. the draft also takes account of another requirement of the parliamentary committee: that of the transmission to parliament of documents relating to decisions taken by the commission in the context of delegated management. through this management system, the european commission was able to exercise considerable decision-making powers, particularly in the area of technical measures. the satisfaction of these demands is in line with our expectations.
in writing. ‒ due to intensive fishing, these fish species are in danger. the basic idea of the project was that the commission should have a lot of technical measures at its disposal. the commission had planned to implement the multiannual plan without waiting for the report of the international council for the exploration of the sea. the amendments seemed to me to be in the right direction, in that they put the expertise of this council back at the centre of the debate. it seems to me to be a precautionary measure. i also welcome the fact that the commission is finally obliged to inform parliament when it is preparing to adopt delegated acts. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report tackles the problem of overfishing, which is putting the baltic sea stocks of cod, herring and sprat at risk. the commission wishes to act quickly, without waiting for the latest opinions of the international council for the exploration of the sea. however, as amended by the members of the committee on fisheries, the report insists that the most recent studies of the international council for the exploration of the sea be taken into account. it is also provided that, when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council. the report is therefore acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the amended proposal is satisfactory and will help to preserve cod, herring and sprat. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the plan, the first to be drawn up under the new fisheries policy, requires management of fish stocks at maximum sustainable yield, which, according to the text, is assessed according to a range of values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this multiannual management plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat, concerning the fisheries exploiting these stocks. this management plan is the first to be drawn up under new rules resulting from the common fisheries policy, reformed in 2013, which requires, inter alia, the management of fish stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy).
in writing. ‒ the baltic sea stocks of cod, herring and sprat are now in danger due to overfishing. - scientific advice has established that current stock exploitation is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. - the commission did not want to wait for further studies by the ices (international council for the exploration of the sea) before implementing the multiannual plan. - the draft provides for the delegation of many technical measures to the commission. the draft, as amended by the members of the committee on fisheries, insists that the most recent ices studies be taken into account and that the relevant advisory councils be consulted. it is also provided that, when preparing delegated acts, the commission shall ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and to the council. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in view of the legal uncertainty regarding the property rights of international couples, the commission has been working on a proposal for a european regulation to harmonise the legal rules on matrimonial property regimes. i voted against this proposal for a regulation because the eu is not meant to legislate on family law. it remains the exclusive competence of the member states, which may, if they so wish, conclude international conventions to lay down rules of cooperation with other states. this is therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ parliament adopted its position on these regulations during the last term. the council took a long time to take a position. we welcome the enhanced cooperation and hope that other member states will decide to join this process. this regulation will make life much easier for european international couples and guarantee them greater legal security.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the commission identified uncertainty about property rights for international couples as one of the main obstacles eu citizens face in their daily lives. after the negotiations were blocked, since any agreement on family law had to be unanimous, this proposal was sent to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation involving only 17 member states. the regulation enshrines the principle of the unity of the applicable law, the same law for all property owned by the couple, wherever it is located. the regulation also allows the choice of the applicable law, provided that it is closely related to the situation of the spouses. the eu is not meant to legislate on family law. member states are free to conclude international conventions to lay down rules of cooperation with other states. it is therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a regulation determining the competent court and the law applicable to applications in matters of matrimonial property regimes. apart from the fact that there is already a convention on this subject, the convention of 14 march 1978, under the aegis of the hague convention, there is nothing to give the eu the right to legislate on family law. member states are free to conclude international conventions to lay down rules of cooperation with other states. it was therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family which called for a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to oppose this report and the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters. i consider this intrusion into national family law unacceptable. in addition, although the situation of international couples must of course be considered, particularly as regards their property rights, i would remind you that there is already an international convention on the subject, the one of 14 march 1978, which all member states are free to ratify. the regulation in question adds nothing to the existing framework, since it excludes from its scope matters concerning the capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, as well as maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased spouse.
in writing. ‒ this text is undoubtedly a prerequisite for the standardisation of the legal rules on the matrimonial regimes of international couples, whether they are married or linked by a registered partnership. there is a fear that national legislation on the family will be tampered with in the future. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the decision to establish enhanced cooperation on matrimonial property regimes between the voluntary member states, namely 23 member states. the commission proposal for a regulation aims to simplify administrative procedures for matrimonial property regimes between member states and will provide legal certainty for international couples. i supported this report because i believe that the harmonisation of matrimonial property regimes is necessary to avoid disconcerting legal uncertainty for european international couples.
in writing. with the freedom of movement and of establishment inherent in the european area, the number of couples with different member state nationals has increased. it is important that european legislation should adapt to this trend, with all the legal consequences that this implies. in order to enable the many european citizens to have a clear legal framework for their matrimonial property regime, i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the commission identified uncertainty about property rights for international couples as one of the main obstacles eu citizens face in their daily lives. it has therefore been working on a proposal for a european regulation to harmonise the legal rules on matrimonial property regimes. after the negotiations were blocked, since any agreement on family law had to be unanimous, this proposal was sent to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation involving only 17 member states. as a reminder, there is already the convention of 14 march 1978 under the aegis of the hague conference, which, although only binding on france, the netherlands and luxembourg, remains open to all other ratifications. the eu is not meant to legislate on family law. the member states are free to conclude international conventions. this text constitutes an unjustified interference with national legislation concerning the family. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this is an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the commission identified uncertainty about property rights for international couples as one of the main obstacles eu citizens face in their daily lives. it has therefore been working on a proposal for a european regulation to harmonise the legal rules on matrimonial property regimes. after the negotiations were blocked, since any agreement on family law had to be unanimous, this proposal was sent to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation involving only 17 member states. the eu is not meant to legislate on family law. member states are free to conclude international conventions to lay down rules of cooperation with other states. it is therefore an unwarranted interference with national legislation on the family and i have of course opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to establish a complete body of rules of private international law applicable to matrimonial property regimes. it is urgent to resolve the practical and legal difficulties encountered by transnational couples in the union both in the day-to-day management of their property and in the division of it in the event of separation or death.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the european union should not interfere in family law, which is a matter for the member states. in addition, there is already a 1978 hague convention on the subject which does the job. it would have been better to encourage the states to ratify it.
in writing. ‒ the european union, by creating an area without internal borders and facilitating mobility within it, has contributed to a significant increase in the number of transnational couples. these couples now face practical and legal difficulties, due to differences in procedures and a lack of coordination between the courts of the member states. that is why i voted in favour of the cavada report on enhanced cooperation between 18 member states in the field of matrimonial property regimes (and its counterpart on the property consequences of registered partnerships), on which parliament had been asked to give its opinion. with this vote, i wish to support a text which aims to simplify the lives of citizens and transnational couples by supporting the creation of a clear legal framework to determine jurisdiction and the applicable law in these situations. finally, i would stress that this text applies only in situations of a transnational nature. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it will not affect the recognition in a member state of the validity of a marriage or registered partnership concluded in another member state, nor national family law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters. the european union is not meant to legislate on family law. member states are free to conclude international conventions to lay down rules of cooperation with other states. it is therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the creation of a specific jurisdiction for international married couples. the commission considers that the uncertainty about the property rights of these couples is a major obstacle to their daily lives. since 2010, it has therefore been working towards the harmonisation of legal rules in this area. the bill proposes new regulations, which require couples to follow local property laws. it does not deal with certain aspects such as the validity and recognition of marriage, the succession of the deceased spouse... 17 member states are party to it, in the form of enhanced cooperation. family law is a sovereign right which cannot be taken away from any state. the commission therefore has no power to legislate in this area. moreover, it remains possible for countries to resolve these legal issues through international agreements, without necessarily going through the eu. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report and therefore against the draft resolution. the commission wants to change the property rights of international couples and to standardize the legal norms for marriage. in family law, the rule is unanimity, so there are only enhanced agreements or cooperation for the time being. in the present case, the text determines procedural rules, such as the competent court or the applicable law, and the main principles, such as the unity of the applicable law. the european union is not intended to regulate family law. we oppose the exclusion of the member states, which are called upon to conclude international conventions in this field.
in writing. ‒ the problem that the text seeks to solve is that of the uncertainty of property rights for international couples. according to the eu citizenship report 2010, this is one of the main obstacles faced by eu citizens. the regulation also allows the choice of the applicable law, provided that it is closely related to the situation of the spouses. the regulation, however, excludes from its scope matters concerning the capacity of spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, maintenance obligations and the succession of the deceased spouse. most of all, i believe that the eu does not have to legislate on family law; member states are free to agree on conventions as they see fit. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the regulation determines the competent court and the law applicable to applications for international marriage registration. the eu is not meant to legislate on family law. member states are free to conclude international conventions to lay down rules of cooperation with other states. it is therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the eu is not meant to legislate on family law. member states are free to conclude international conventions to lay down rules of cooperation with other states. this is an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters. the report, which contains recommendations applicable to transnational situations, is essential to establish a clear legal framework to avoid conflicts of laws and to improve the dissemination of decisions and acts on these issues in the member states.
in writing. the proposal we're putting forward affects 16 million couples with an international element. i support the motion because it is not a transfer of powers, but a de facto procedural and conflict of laws rule that will clarify the status of these married couples. moreover, i personally think that a joint amendment could be made here. however, the enhanced cooperation proposed here by only some member states will also improve the legal situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these new provisions which will apply to the 18 european states which have signed up to a procedure of enhanced cooperation in the field of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters of international couples, i.e. of two different nationalities. although marriage and partnership will continue to be defined by national laws, these new european rules will increase the security of international couples.
in writing. ‒ the increased mobility of people within a european area without internal borders is leading to a significant increase in the number of couples of nationals of different member states living in a member state other than their own or acquiring property located in the territory of several member states. while we as europeans can welcome this as a manifestation of a growing intermingling of the peoples of europe, it raises several legal and practical questions because of the wide disparity between the rules applicable to the property effects of marriage, which this report seeks to address. it aims in particular to establish a clear legal framework, where couples will be able to choose the jurisdiction and the law applicable to their property and property, thus avoiding future conflicts of jurisdiction. this legislation will undoubtedly provide a clearer, more stable and more predictable legal framework for international couples. in line with these political lines, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ since the european union is not required to legislate in the field of family law, this text violates the principle of subsidiarity and constitutes an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family. i am strongly against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. although the regulation states that it excludes matters of substantive law from its scope, it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate possible bottlenecks and to circumvent the obstacle. the autonomy of the member states in family law will therefore be impeded. this text constitutes an unjustified interference with national legislation concerning the family.
in writing. ‒ parliament adopted its position on these regulations during the last term. the council took a long time to take a position. we welcome the enhanced cooperation and hope that other member states will decide to join this process. this regulation will make life much easier for european international couples and guarantee them greater legal security.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the commission announced a proposal for a regulation to make it easier for international couples to know which courts have jurisdiction over their property rights and which legislation applies to them. after the negotiations had come to a standstill, this proposal was referred back to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation involving only 17 member states. the regulation covers jurisdiction and the applicable law in matters of the property effects of registered partnerships. the text also allows the choice of the applicable law, provided that it is the law of the state of which one of the partners is a national or the state in which he has his habitual residence. the partners may also choose the law of the state of registration of the partnership. although the regulation states that it excludes matters relating to property rights (capacity, maintenance obligations, succession, etc.), it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate possible bottlenecks and to circumvent the obstacle. this is in particular the case with the generously provided possibility of choosing the applicable law. the autonomy of the member states in family law is therefore not ultimately safeguarded. it is therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to approve a regulation which is intended to make it easier for international couples (married or registered partners) to know which courts have jurisdiction in relation to their property rights and which legislation applies to them. however, even if the regulation states that it excludes matters relating to property rights (maintenance obligations, succession, etc.), it will inevitably allow the partners to anticipate possible blockages, in particular by the generously provided possibility of choosing the applicable law. the autonomy of the member states in family law is therefore not ultimately safeguarded. this is an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this draft report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships. it is true that everyone can recognise the difficulties experienced by couples in registering their partnership, particularly because of the wide disparities in the rules applicable to property effects. it should be noted that in france the issue of registered partnerships abroad has never been settled, whereas in the rest of europe there is a wide variety of systems in this area. however, this regulation carries the risk of 'opening a loophole and allowing a kind of 'patrimonial exile', allowing partners to 'anticipate blockages and choose the applicable law'. it therefore jeopardises the autonomy of the member states with regard to their family law.
in writing. ‒ this text is undoubtedly a prerequisite for the standardisation of the legal rules on the matrimonial regimes of international couples, whether they are married or linked by a registered partnership. there is a fear that national legislation on the family will be tampered with in the future. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to strengthen cooperation between eu member states in order to facilitate the administrative procedures of international couples. the text covers, in respect of the property effects of registered partnerships, jurisdiction and the applicable law as well as the recognition and enforcement of decisions. the text also gives these couples the possibility of choosing the applicable law, provided that it is the law of the state of which one of the partners is a national. in summary, the partners will be able to choose the law of the state of registration of the partnership. although this report excludes questions of substantive law such as succession, it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate potential bottlenecks and to circumvent legal obstacles. the autonomy of the member states in family law is therefore not ultimately safeguarded. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the establishment of enhanced cooperation on property rights between the voluntary member states, namely 23 member states. the commission proposal for a regulation aims to simplify administrative procedures in matters of matrimonial property regimes between member states and will provide legal certainty for international couples. i supported this report because i believe that the harmonisation of matrimonial property regimes is necessary to avoid disconcerting legal uncertainty for european international couples.
in writing. with the freedom of movement and establishment inherent in the european area, the number of registered partnerships between nationals of different member states has increased. i voted in favour of this text so that european legislation can facilitate the establishment of these partnerships.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the commission announced a proposal for a regulation to make it easier for international couples (married or registered partners) to know which courts have jurisdiction over their property rights and which legislation applies to them. after the negotiations were blocked, since any agreement on family law had to be unanimous, this proposal was sent to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation involving only 17 member states. it is true that the regulation states that it does not cover matters relating to property rights (capacity, maintenance obligations, succession, etc.). however, it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate possible bottlenecks and to overcome the obstacle. this is done in particular by the possibility of choosing the applicable law. the autonomy of the member states in family law is therefore not safeguarded. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this is an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the commission announced a proposal for a regulation to make it easier for international couples (married or registered partners) to know which courts have jurisdiction over their property rights and which legislation applies to them. after the negotiations were blocked, since any agreement on family law had to be unanimous, this proposal was sent to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation involving only 17 member states. although the regulation states that it excludes matters relating to property rights (capacity, maintenance obligations, succession, etc.), it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate possible bottlenecks and to circumvent the obstacle. this is in particular the case with the generously provided possibility of choosing the applicable law. the autonomy of the member states in family law is therefore not ultimately safeguarded. it is therefore an unwarranted interference with national legislation on the family and i am naturally opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to establish a complete body of rules of private international law applicable to the property effects of registered partnerships. it is urgent to resolve the practical and legal difficulties faced by transnational couples in the union both in the day-to-day management of their property and in the division of it in the event of separation or death.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the european union should not interfere in family law, which is a matter for the member states. in addition, the recognition of registered partnerships within couples, which it promotes, is fraught with threats to the sovereignty and identity of european states, as not all have the same conception of these partnerships. 10 out of 28 states have categorically refused to apply it.
in writing. ‒ the european union, by creating an area without internal borders and facilitating mobility within it, has contributed to a significant increase in the number of transnational couples. these couples now face practical and legal difficulties, due to differences in procedures and a lack of coordination between the courts of the member states. that is why i voted in favour of the cavada report on enhanced cooperation between 18 member states on the property consequences of registered partnerships (and its counterpart on matrimonial property regimes), on which parliament had been asked to give its opinion. with this vote, i wish to support a text which aims to simplify the lives of citizens and transnational couples by supporting the creation of a clear legal framework to determine jurisdiction and the applicable law in these situations. finally, i would stress that this text applies only in situations of a transnational nature. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it will not affect the recognition in a member state of the validity of a marriage or registered partnership concluded in another member state, nor national family law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. although the regulation states that it excludes matters relating to property rights (capacity, maintenance obligations, succession, etc.), it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate possible bottlenecks and to circumvent the obstacle. this is in particular the case with the generously provided possibility of choosing the applicable law. the autonomy of the member states in family law is therefore not ultimately safeguarded. it is therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family.
in writing. ‒ building on a commission initiative in 2010, the report creates a clear legal framework for international couples regarding their property rights. the text gives them the option of choosing the applicable law of one of the countries of origin of one of the partners or of one of the countries in which he or she has his or her habitual residence. it is true that this text highlights the absence of case-law in this area. however, family law is a matter for each state. it is the responsibility of the member states to lay down specific legislation, for example by developing cooperation agreements with third countries. the commission is not competent to do so. i am opposed to this text and i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report and therefore against the draft resolution. the context is the same as in the previous text: the commission wishes to amend the law on international couples and to standardize the legal standards, but this time in a particular area, that of registered partnerships. the text defines procedural rules, such as the competent court or the applicable law, the main principles such as the unity of the applicable law, and the issue of recognition and enforcement of decisions in the context of registered partnerships. it also provides for the possibility for partners to choose the state of registration of the partnership. this text, although it does not directly concern substantive law (capacity, maintenance obligations, succession, etc.), will make it possible to circumvent certain legislative obstacles by choosing, in particular, the applicable law. in conclusion, it encourages unjustified interference with national rules and deprives the member states of their autonomy in family law matters, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the commission made a proposal to make it easier for international couples to find out which courts have jurisdiction to deal with property rights and the legislation that applies to them. this was not unanimous, since enhanced cooperation had been established for 17 states. in any case, the eu has no legitimacy to legislate on family matters. this is an intrusion into national legislation concerning the family. that's something i can't tolerate. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the regulation covers, in relation to the property effects of registered partnerships (such as pacs in france), jurisdiction and the applicable law, as well as the recognition and enforcement of decisions. although the text states that it excludes matters relating to property rights (capacity, maintenance obligations, succession, etc.), it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate possible obstacles and to overcome the obstacle. this is in part due to the generously provided possibility of choosing the applicable law. the autonomy of the member states in family law is therefore not ultimately safeguarded. it is therefore an unjustified interference in national legislation concerning the family, calling for a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ the autonomy of the member states in family law is not safeguarded by this text. it is therefore an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family, and i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. the report, which contains recommendations applicable to transnational situations, is essential to establish a clear legal framework to avoid conflicts of laws and to improve the dissemination of decisions and acts on these issues in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these new provisions which will apply to the 18 european states which have signed up to a procedure of enhanced cooperation in the field of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters of international couples, i.e. of two different nationalities. these new european rules, which will increase the security of international couples, will also simplify recognition and strengthen the judgments given by one member state on property in another member state.
in writing. ‒ the increased mobility of people within a european area without internal borders is leading to a significant increase in the number of couples of nationals of different member states living in a member state other than their own or acquiring property located in the territory of several member states. while we as europeans can welcome this as a manifestation of a growing intermingling of the peoples of europe, it raises several legal and practical questions because of the wide disparity between the rules applicable to the property effects of marriage, which this report seeks to address. it aims in particular to establish a clear legal framework, where couples will be able to choose the jurisdiction and the law applicable to their property and property, thus avoiding future conflicts of jurisdiction. this legislation will undoubtedly provide a clearer, more stable and more predictable legal framework for international couples. in line with these political lines, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the regulation states that it excludes from its scope matters relating to property rights (capacity, maintenance obligations, succession, etc.), but it will inevitably enable the partners to anticipate possible blockages and to circumvent the obstacle, in particular by giving them the possibility of choosing the applicable law. the autonomy of the member states in matters of family law is therefore not safeguarded. this is an unjustified interference with national legislation on the family. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolutions and abstained in favour of the gue resolution, which is by far the most studied and shows a real mastery of the dossier. the other resolutions are marked by a clear ignorance of what is happening in the congo. the situation in the african great lakes region can clearly be understood only by looking back to the end of the cold war and the us decision to reinvest this reason at the expense of france (with the support of canadian, british and israeli diplomacy). it is in this context that we must understand first the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilize the drc today, based on ethnic fractures.
in writing. ‒ following the conflict which has caused the death of six million people in 20 years and kills more than 800 people every day, we call for an international inquiry. european officials must stop hiding their faces from the horrors perpetrated over the past two decades in the democratic republic of congo by armed militias. the latter, in fact, continue to displace indigenous populations with the sole purpose of taking control of the exploitation of natural and mineral resources. we urge the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to call for an international investigation into the massacres, in collaboration with the united nations and the international criminal court. we also call on the members of the european union in the security council to take all possible measures to stop these crimes.
in writing. ‒ these resolutions follow an escalation of abuses in the democratic republic of congo. with the exception of the far left, the resolutions are marked by a clear ignorance of what is happening in the congo. the situation in the african great lakes can be understood only after the end of the cold war and the decision of the united states to reinvest in the region at the expense of france, with the support of canadian, british and israeli diplomacy. it is in this context that we must first understand the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilize the drc today by relying on ethnic fractures. i therefore voted against all the resolutions and abstained in favour of the resolution of the extreme left, which, although it is difficult to follow with its recommendations on the family, is still the most studied.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these motions for resolutions, which follow an aggravation of the abuses committed in the former zaire, but which shine through their ignorance of the situation in the present democratic republic of congo. the situation in the african great lakes region can be understood only by looking back to the end of the cold war and the decision of the united states to reinvest in the region at the expense of france, with the support of other western diplomatic bodies. it is in this context that we must first understand the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilise the drc by relying on ethnic divisions, a tactic whose disastrous consequences for the local populations we can see today.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this joint resolution on the massacres in eastern congo. like everyone else, i am sensitive to the security situation of the congolese people, particularly with regard to the tragedy of child soldiers, forcibly recruited into armed groups and sent to the slaughter. it is also tragic that between october 2014 and may 2016 in the territories of beni, lubero and butembo, more than 1,160 people were brutally murdered, with many disappearances, destruction of school and medical infrastructure and sexual violence. however, far from solving the problems, this european resolution is content with a posture of interference based on sentimentality which, if it is understandable, is irresponsible in foreign policy. i welcome certain amendments tabled by the gue which stress in particular that one of the realistic solutions is the need for the congo to regain its sovereignty over its resources and over the responsibility of foreign multinationals for the plundering of these resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted against all the resolutions and abstained on the gue resolution which, although it is difficult to follow because of its recommendations on the family, is by far the most studied and shows a real mastery of the file.
in writing. ‒ the democratic republic of congo is currently plagued by serious internal unrest, particularly in the north-east of the country where armed groups are committing massacres, assassinations, sexual violence and kidnappings. this situation is all the more intolerable as the government is struggling to take action to eradicate these criminal organizations. while we strongly condemn all the abuses committed in this region, we consider that the european union has no legitimacy and credibility to interfere in the internal affairs of this country. we would also like to point out that foreign policy is the exclusive responsibility of the member states. the international institutions should therefore play a more substantial role in putting an end to these barbaric practices. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the escalation of violence in the northeast region of congo must stop immediately. the humanitarian situation in that country is very alarming. the local population is the target of intolerable massacres. his safety must be the top priority of the congolese government. it is necessary that a thorough investigation be opened by the international community. those responsible for these massacres must be brought to justice and punished without delay. stabilisation of the country is conditional on the holding of new elections. the european union and its member states must respond in the present to promote peace, stability and respect for human rights. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution and the abuses it denounces still resonate in this house, which regularly draws attention to the tragedy of child soldiers and the violence of all kinds suffered by the civilian population in the congo. i am deeply concerned about the continuing deterioration of the humanitarian situation, with entire villages occupied by armed groups blocking any possibility of aid. it is very difficult to reconcile peoples and ethnic groups when each one deplores the violence of the other side. an investigation must be carried out to end impunity, inaction and silence, so that justice can be done and those responsible for the massacres can be identified and brought to justice. the subject is also economic and commercial, with the massacres taking place against a backdrop of resource exploitation and arms trafficking. the resolution therefore calls for the recently reached european agreement on mandatory blood mineral testing to be translated into ambitious legislation, to be implemented swiftly.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it shows a clear ignorance of the situation in the congo. to understand the great lakes region, we have to go back to the end of the cold war and the decision of the united states to reinvest in the region at the expense of france, with the support of canadian, british and israeli diplomacy. it is in this context that we must first understand the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilize the drc today, based on ethnic divisions.
in writing. ‒ votes against all resolutions and abstains on the gue resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolutions follow an increase in abuses in the congo. with the exception of the gue resolution, the resolutions are marked by a clear ignorance of what is happening in the congo. in fact, to understand the situation in the african great lakes, we must go back to the end of the cold war and the american decision to reinvest this reason at the expense of france with the support of canadian, british and israeli diplomacy. it is in this context that we must first understand the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilize the drc today by relying on ethnic fractures. i voted against the resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which denounces the recurrent massacres taking place in eastern congo where ugandan rebels and the congolese army are fighting.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because despite some good passages, especially on the role of multinationals, it interferes in the internal affairs of the congo.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the massacres in eastern congo. this follows an increase in abuses committed on the spot, but shows a clear ignorance of what is happening in the congo. in fact, to understand the situation in the african great lakes, we must go back to the end of the cold war and the decision of the united states to reinvest in this region at the expense of france. it is in this context that we must first understand the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilize the drc today, based on ethnic divisions.
in writing. ‒ the texts put to the vote by the various political parties in parliament concern the democratic republic of congo (drc). the situation is particularly tense, with massacres increasing and the population torn apart. this situation is the result of the us policy pursued after the cold war and supported by canada, britain and israel to destabilize the drc. it has relied on uganda and rwanda as destabilizing elements, emphasizing the ethnic divisions already present in the country, which produced the current massacres. the political parties' motions for resolutions ignore this essential historical causality, and i therefore vote against. the gue/ngl report is distinguished by its mastery of the subject, but its proposals on the family tarnish it, which is why i abstained on the subject.
in writing. - i voted against all the resolutions. all these resolutions show a profound disregard for the geostrategic situation in the democratic republic of congo. the destabilization of this great african state is largely due to american influence, via rwanda and uganda. given this lack of knowledge of the subject, we cannot support these texts.
in writing. ‒ the resolutions of the various groups, with the exception of the gue group, show their ignorance of reality. to understand the situation in the african great lakes region, one must refer to the american decisions to reinvest in these decolonized regions. this was done at the expense of france with the support of the anglo-saxon canadian and british powers. it is in this context that we must understand the instability created in these regions and the crisis in rwanda, and then its use and that of uganda to destabilize the democratic republic of congo. i therefore voted against the motions for resolutions and abstained on the one by the gue which cannot be followed for its recommendations on the family.
in writing. ‒ most of the resolutions presented here are marked by a clear ignorance of what is happening in the congo. in fact, to understand the situation in the african great lakes, we must go back to the end of the cold war and the american decision to reinvest this reason at the expense of france with the support of canadian, british and israeli diplomacy. it is in this context that we must first understand the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilize the drc today by relying on ethnic fractures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the massacres in eastern congo, which calls on the parties to the conflict to stop the violence and to engage in dialogue. between october 2014 and may 2016, more than 1,160 people were killed and more than 1,470 went missing.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's efforts to draw attention to the tragic situation in eastern congo. this conflict, rightly compared to world wars, deserves not only attention but also efforts to end it and to help the victims of violence in this part of the world. the eu must put real pressure on the government of the democratic republic of congo in particular to make a real effort to resolve the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the eastern democratic republic of congo (drc) is extremely worrying, with ongoing violence between armed groups and widespread impunity. this situation must be fought vigorously if order and peace are to be restored and the country is to return swiftly to the path of stability.
in writing. - i supported this resolution calling for an end to the massacres in eastern congo. the security situation in the democratic republic of congo continues to deteriorate in the north-east of the country as a result of more than 20 years of armed conflict. the abuses committed by armed groups are intolerable: massacres, the recruitment and use of children, and sexual violence. the already alarming humanitarian situation is also deteriorating and the increase in kidnappings, assaults and attacks against humanitarian workers is delaying the delivery of aid. in the face of this situation, the inaction and silence of the government of the democratic republic of congo and the media, as well as the indifference of the international community, are unacceptable. all parties are called upon to put an end to the conflict and violence, to lay down their arms, to release all children and to promote dialogue. the perpetrators of human rights violations must be brought to justice and the international community should launch a thorough, independent and transparent investigation. finally, we should recall the need for the elections to be held smoothly and on time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the massacres taking place in eastern congo. it calls on all parties to end the violence, lay down their arms, release all children from their ranks and promote dialogue towards a peaceful solution. the democratic republic of congo is experiencing an unprecedented escalation of violence and an alarming humanitarian situation. today, dozens of armed groups remain active, recruiting and using children, with many massacres reported. in order to ensure the return of stability to congo, it is urgent to put an end to this violence and to hold democratic elections in december 2016.
in writing. ‒ the proposed resolutions are marked by a clear ignorance of what is happening in congo. the situation in the african great lakes region can be understood only by looking back to the end of the cold war and the decision of the united states to reinvest in the region at the expense of france, with the support of canadian, british and israeli diplomacy. it is in this context that we must first understand the rwandan crisis and then the use of rwanda and uganda to destabilize the drc today by relying on ethnic fractures. i vote against all the resolutions, except the one by the gue, which seems to have been the best studied.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. while this report attempts to strike a real balance between the objectives of education and respect for the national competence of the member states, there is a migration aspect (school integration of migrants, promoting integration into our societies, facilitating their enrolment in universities) which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ this report attempts to strike a balance between the work of this strategic framework, which aims to recommend reforms of national education systems, and respect for national competence and the diversity of member states' cultures and needs. however, the emphasis on the integration of migrants, the lack of regard for the high unemployment rate in europe and the brain drain in the countries of origin of migrants prevented me from voting in favour of this text, on which i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report constitutes parliament's opinion on the implementation of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et2020). at first sight, it seems rather balanced, stressing the importance of taking account of the diversity of circumstances in the member states, or stressing the importance of the role of the family in education. however, i could not vote in favour of this report because it is regrettable that these recommendations are being marred by an ideological desire to turn et2020 into a programme to welcome migrants, at the expense of the most fundamental interests and rights of the european people.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (et2020). while i welcome the rapporteur's attempt to strike a balance, in particular by recognising the diversity of member states in the field of education and training and by pointing out that these areas remain their responsibility, i regret that the report has been diverted by the compromises the rapporteur has had to make with the other political groups. the good proposals in the field of learning, the quality of basic knowledge teaching and the recognition of the role of teachers and the family are thus put at risk by the failure to challenge the bologna process. finally, i regret the proposals for the integration of migrants through education, the real humanitarian stance being not to deprive the countries experiencing emigration of human and economic resources, and to work with them to create "educational corridors" that allow students from war zones to continue studying as close to home as possible.
in writing. ‒ 'education and training 2020' (et2020) is the framework for cooperation in the field of education and training. this platform for the exchange of good practice and mutual learning disseminates information and evidence, while providing advice and support for reforms. the aim is to reduce the unemployment rate among 18-25 year olds by tackling school drop-outs and facilitating access to universities. this report provides a rather objective assessment of the state of the strategic framework. it also stressed that the current tendency to assign quantitative objectives to the university system should not undermine the quality of teaching. the rapporteur also stresses that et2020 does not sufficiently take into account the specificity of the problems faced by member states in education. although this report is in the right direction, i abstained on this text which defends free education for all illegal immigrants. finally, it is essential to recall that education is the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ while social policies are a matter for the member states, it is important to ensure that they are coordinated within the single market. 'education and training 2020' (et2020) is the european cooperation programme for education and training. this strategic framework makes it easier to achieve european objectives in education. education and training are two of the most important elements in preparing young people for the world of work. this makes it possible to provide as many people as possible with the qualifications needed for integration into the world of work. a collaborative approach also allows for better management of the erasmus+ programme. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a series of measures to improve the et2020 strategic framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which has no binding legislative value, and which calls for maximising the effectiveness of the european framework for education and training in the european union. in the face of increasing youth unemployment in many member states, it is essential to improve proven tools such as apprenticeships. in the face of the migration crisis, some paragraphs in the report mention better integration of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers into european education and training systems. i regret the ambiguity surrounding these various points, but because i support the integration of political refugees, i voted in favour of the paragraphs in question. because education allows for greater integration and involvement in our society, particularly financial, it must be offered to people who obtain the right to settle in our countries.
in writing. ‒ the text of this report provides a very comprehensive inventory of the measures to be promoted and put in place to ensure the efficiency and fairness of european education and training systems in a knowledge society. from innovation to decoupling, from formal to informal, from small class sizes to refugee care, from disrespect to radicalisation, from employability to critical thinking, it sheds light on all the challenges, risks and difficulties in achieving education and empowerment in a world in profound change and where knowledge and skills benchmarks are being disrupted by digital. it also recalls the harmful effects of austerity policies, which have seen some states reduce their budgetary efforts in school and higher education. the report is all about showing how the european commission is extremely good at diagnosing and completely contradictory in its injunctions!
in writing. ‒ the report strikes a balance between the work of the strategic framework, which aims to recommend reforms of national education systems, and respect for national competence and the diversity of member states' cultures and needs. unfortunately, it contains a politically correct element concerning migrants, in particular by calling for their registration at university to be facilitated. given that it was part of the joint report of the commission and the council, it was difficult to exclude it. for this reason, i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to instigate reforms of national education systems and to maintain respect for national competence and cultural diversity. the 'politically correct' aspect of the report on migrants is regrettable. it follows their recommendations and advocates the integration of migrants in schools, but it does so with a view to promoting their integration into our societies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. however, he makes up for it by pointing to the risk of "brain drain" resulting from mobility programmes. this report, while generally satisfactory, has some shortcomings and that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the follow-up to the european strategic framework et2020 (education and training). the aim of the text is to increase the added value and maximise the effectiveness of this strategic framework, even as the unemployment rate among young people, which is the highest in the union and also affects young graduates, calls for a strong response from the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, while it attempts in theory to respect the diversity of the member states' cultures and education policies, it serves as a trojan horse for the european immigration model.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. this text is rather balanced. it recalls in particular that education and training should not be focused solely on the needs of the labour market, i.e. they should not serve to alienate learners by reducing them to an economic data. it also recalls that member states do not always face the same challenges in this area and that account should be taken of their different economic circumstances. it emphasises the importance of the family's role in education. mr krasnodębski is also concerned about the current trend of setting performance targets for universities at the expense of quality of education, which could put humanities education at risk. unfortunately, the report includes a "politically correct" and naïve section on immigration.
in writing. ‒ et2020 has to meet several objectives set by the education and training 2020 programme. these criteria set a number of imperatives, such as achieving by 2020 a proportion of less than 15% of 15-year-olds with insufficient basic skills (reading, mathematics, science) or having 95% of children from the age of four in pre-school education. the rapporteur studies these points and makes sensible remarks. it stressed that quantitative objectives must not prevail over qualitative ones and also stressed the paramount role of the family in education. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. despite some ideologically correct remarks on migration, this report is balanced. i therefore support it and i vote in favour.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training aims to exchange good practice in the context of reforms. in education, targets for 2020 include reducing the proportion of 15-year-olds with poor reading skills to 15% and achieving an 82% employment rate for graduates aged 20 to 34. the draft text takes its position on the joint report of the commission and the council on the implementation of the strategic framework. the report is balanced and contains many positive points. it states, for example, that learners should not be reduced to an economic factor, that the role of the family in education is important and that account should be taken of the economic circumstances in the member states. it stressed the importance of not pursuing the quantitative at the expense of the qualitative, particularly with regard to the objective of 40% of young people obtaining a diploma. the report, however, advocates the integration of migrants into the education system, particularly through their enrolment in universities. it calls on the member states to consider 'diversity' as a wealth for the education system as a whole, etc.
in writing. ‒ the work for this framework aims to make recommendations for reforming national education systems. i note that the report attempts to strike a balance between the work of this strategic framework and respect for the competence of states, the diversity of their cultures and needs. however, these good recommendations are being hijacked by a european model of integration of migrants that is slipping into the background. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ overall, this is a good report, which attempts to strike a balance between the work of this strategic framework, which aims to recommend reforms of national education systems, and respect for national competence and the diversity of cultures and needs of the member states. the 'politically correct' part on migrants is to be regretted, but given that it was part of the joint commission and council report, it was difficult to exclude it. it is also necessary to be very cautious about the purely quantitative objectives of education for all as presented by the et2020 programme.
in writing. ‒ overall, this is a good report, which attempts to strike a balance between the work of this strategic framework, which aims to recommend reforms of national education systems, and respect for national competence and the diversity of cultures and needs of the member states. however, the "politically correct" view of migrants is regrettable. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, some of whose provisions were clearly a call for illegal immigration. by asking for the integration of migrants who have not even been granted refugee status and are therefore illegal immigrants into the various education and training programmes, this text suggests that we can welcome migrants in europe with dignity, when in reality we are not able to provide them with housing, employment or the means to assimilate properly.
in writing. ‒ each eu country is responsible for its own education and training system. at european level, the education and training 2020 strategic framework helps to define the lines of cooperation between states to support national actions and help to address common challenges, such as the ageing of our societies, the shortage of skilled labour in certain sectors and the impact of technological developments. i voted in favour of this text, which sets out recommendations to increase the technical efficiency of this european cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock and makes recommendations on the implementation of the education and training 2020 strategic framework (et2020). inclusive and quality education and training are essential for europe's cultural, economic and social development. in this sense, the report calls for more ambitious, coordinated and effective policy action in the field of education and training, both at european and national level. with the aim of improving the quality of education and training, this text calls for the emergence of good practices for assessing qualitative progress, in addition to the indices and benchmarks used in the context of et2020. it is crucial that member states invest in inclusive education that responds to societal challenges in a way that guarantees equal access and opportunities for all. in this sense, the text also takes into account the challenge of the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report because, while it attempts to strike a balance between the work of the european institutions and respect for national competences in the field of education, it unfortunately remains a promotion of the european model of integration of migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on progress in renewable energy. despite some interesting points, notably on users in precarious situations and the emphasis on training, which is a key issue in this sector, we regret the far too integrationist tone of this report. if we are in favour of renewable energy, we cannot support a text which is made up of very binding objectives and which calls on the european commission to strengthen its role.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is in a federalist delusion when it comes to the environment. this is the case here, where we are talking about renewable energy. the whole of the first part is made up of binding objectives, legislative proposals and constraints on the member states. not to mention the incomprehensible gibberish of reinventing hot water, when our states had patiently built an affordable and consistent public electricity and gas service. even though i am in favour of renewable energy, the report's clear integrationist tone does not allow for a vote on it as it stands. so i objected.
in writing. ‒ this report, which looks at progress in renewable energy, is certainly interesting, but its integrationist tone, bordering on federalism, is uncomfortable, making it appear more as a pretext than as an end in itself. this begins in point 2, where it is stated that parliament 'invites the commission to strengthen its role'. the first part of the report is also composed entirely of objectives which are almost unrealisable, legislative proposals and constraints on the member states. the member states are therefore invited to dismantle the affordable and coherent electricity and gas utilities they have established. i therefore voted against this destructive report, which is far from promoting the widespread use of renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on progress in the renewable energy sector. this is regrettable, especially since it contained several good proposals: taking into account energy-poor users, excluding public investment from the deficit targets, and suggesting simplification of administrative and fiscal rules for producers-consumers. unfortunately, these good intentions are being perverted by the federalist will of the rapporteur, who feels obliged to give the commission the role of policeman to guide the member states on the path to renewable energy through binding targets and legislation. the text also aims to provide a lesson in this area, calling into question our public electricity and gas service, which is efficient and of high quality.
in writing. ‒ even though i am in favour of the development of renewable energy, the clearly integrationist tone of the report does not allow me to vote on it as it stands. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to take stock of the state of progress in the renewable energy sector. the rapporteur has the merit of raising some relevant issues, such as the situation of producer-consumers for whom the administrative and fiscal rules should be simplified, but i have opposed this text, which will strengthen the binding legislative provisions to the detriment of the member states. while investing in renewable energy is essential for future generations, the fact remains that the increase in administrative and legal constraints in the union will exacerbate the current unfair competition faced by our companies. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ one of the union's priorities is to achieve a successful energy transition in the fight against global warming. in this context, the development of renewable energies is very important. another challenge is to reduce the european union's energy dependence on third countries. member states already have a legal framework to achieve the 2020 targets. regulation of the renewable energy sector should promote a stable framework for investment and effective democratic control, conducive to their development. the report raises key questions about europe's energy future. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the temperature of the state of the art in renewable energy equipment and production, which is summed up in the phrase "the glass is half full and half empty". it is also regrettable that it is not accompanied by country-specific recommendations and remains at a very general meta-level. i am very attentive to the question of investment in research, particularly the question of electricity storage, which is a tool for the management of renewable energies. this requires the involvement of local authorities, simplification of the administrative framework and financing procedures, and the implementation of smart equipment that can demonstrate to end-users the benefits of switching to clean energy.
in writing. ‒ the report does not forget to mention energy-poor users and the importance of training as a key issue in these policies. it also wants to exclude public investment from deficit targets and involve citizens in national plans for renewable energy. finally, it examines the situation of producer-consumers, for whom administrative and tax rules should be simplified. however, it is a federalist text which 'invites the commission to strengthen its role' and contains as many binding objectives, legislative proposals and constraints for the member states as it does. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the report's clear integrationist tone does not allow for a vote on the report as it stands.
in writing. ‒ the report is relevant, as it does not forget users in energy-scarce situations and devotes almost a paragraph to training. it wants to exclude public investment from deficit targets and envisages involving citizens in national plans for renewable energy. the report also repeatedly refers to the situation of producer-consumers, for whom the administrative and fiscal rules should be simplified. however, the commission's interference in the report is overwhelming. the whole of the first part is made up of binding objectives, legislative proposals and constraints on the member states. although i recognize the value of renewable energy, the binding tone of the report led me to vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the progress made in the renewable energy sector. the report estimates that, overall, the union is on track to meet the 2020 targets (20% greenhouse gas emissions, 20% renewable energy and 20% energy efficiency). if renewable energy continues to develop, the report points out that the union could save up to €30 billion a year in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, under the pretext of encouraging renewable energy, it seeks to strengthen the european union and punish the states that are resistant. it also promotes the smoky concept of 'energy democracy'. good feelings and empty words in the service of a will to hegemony!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on progress in the renewable energy sector. the european parliament is in a federalist delusion when it comes to the environment. the report is interesting in a few respects. it is not forgetting, in particular, users in situations of energy poverty. he wants to involve citizens in national plans for renewable energy. the commission has repeatedly referred to the situation of producer-consumers, for whom administrative and fiscal rules should be simplified. however, the whole of the first part is made up of binding objectives, legislative proposals and constraints for the states. and then there is the incomprehensible talk of reinventing hot water, when most member states have built an affordable and coherent public electricity and gas service.
in writing. - i voted against it. the text makes some interesting remarks, such as the importance of training on renewable energy, helping users in energy poverty, but also involving citizens in national renewable energy plans. however, these remarks disappear under the rapporteur's integrationist will. it also tends to set binding objectives and legislative proposals for the member states. i cannot possibly agree with this federalist report. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the report contains several positive points: the consideration of users in situations of energy poverty, training, the situation of producers-consumers who suffer from overly restrictive administrative and fiscal standards, but also the desire to exclude public investments from deficit targets and to involve citizens in national plans. however, this report adopts an integrationist, even federalist, view of the energy sector, which we strongly oppose. it sets a number of binding objectives for the member states and aims to strengthen the role of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i am aware, with some caution, that in the european parliament renewable energy, federalism and integration are closely linked. while i am in favour of the former, i must admit that this systematic association does not go beyond the limits of common sense. good ideas are being developed on several points, including citizen involvement in national plans for renewable energy. but it is a question of strengthening the role of the commission and adding more and more constraints on the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ even if we are in favour of renewable energy, the tone of the report, which is very openly in favour of strengthening the commission's powers at the expense of those of the states, does not allow us to vote on it as it stands.
in writing. ‒ even if some of the guidelines are good in terms of renewable energy, the clearly integrationist tone of the report does not allow me to vote on it as it stands. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of progress in the renewable energy sector. the european union, which imports more than 50% of its energy needs for a daily 1 billion euro, is highly energy dependent, particularly on crude oil, natural gas and coal. the european union must promote renewable energy through incentives, including tax incentives, in order to meet its 20% renewable energy target for 2020. i therefore voted in favour of this text, but against its provisions which aim to promote renewable energy by coercion.
in writing. ‒ today, the european union imports more than 50% of its energy and is dependent on oil, natural gas and coal. i voted in favour of this text, which underlines the importance of renewable energy, a sector which represents more than a million jobs in europe, in achieving the objectives which the union has set itself.
in writing. ‒ renewable energy is a key component of the eu's energy policy, reducing emissions and increasing the union's energy independence. in this respect, while it is noted that the majority of member states are on track to achieve the ambitious targets set by the union in this area (20% renewable energy by 2020), there are still gaps in achievement between them, including france, which is lagging behind in achieving its climate and energy targets. the commission has also been asked to present a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of climate change. i have voted in favour of this text in accordance with these political lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes stock of the actions undertaken in the union in relation to renewable energy and sets out the efforts to be continued in order to achieve the targets set for 2020 and 2030. the energy and ecological transition is an imperative, as was recently confirmed by the agreement reached at cop 21, and it must be encouraged as it has benefits, particularly in terms of improving public health, creating jobs and increasing the comfort of life. it is therefore essential that member states, in their respective strategies, ensure that they will meet the targets and strengthen their policies, particularly in key sectors such as electricity, heating and cooling and transport, for those who are not sure that they will achieve them. it is therefore unacceptable to see a decline in investment in renewable energy in europe. in addition, citizens should be allowed to be an integral part of this transition and a relevant and fair framework for self-production and self-consumption should be created.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the important progress that has been made within the union in the renewable energy sector while underlining the many efforts that remain to be made. this report emphasises the need to share best practice in terms of national renewable energy policies and to promote their adoption within a more convergent european model. it stressed the need to guarantee access to finance, particularly for smes, and to support research and development in the field of renewable energies. transparency, convergence of practices and increased investment will make our environmental policy more effective and more efficient.
in writing. ‒ the modernisation of the eu's energy model requires the development of renewable energies. wind, tides and sun are inexhaustible resources. in contrast, oil, gas and coal, in addition to their polluting effects, are not endless resources. the energy transition must tackle climate change and our dependence on imported energy resources, and create jobs. we refuse to leave the transition to this new model to the market alone. on the contrary, democratic participation and regulation are essential to ensure the social and environmental aspects. the energy future of europe cannot be dictated by multinational companies, at the risk of negative externalities. the left must be the leader of the energy transition. the union must accelerate the development of clean energy. the 20% renewable energy target by 2020 is therefore only a first step. efforts must be maintained to reach 30% renewable energy by 2030. these are the conditions for a social and sustainable europe.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights some interesting points: users in energy poverty; training (a key issue in these policies); the involvement of citizens in national renewable energy plans; the examination of the situation of producer-consumers, for whom administrative and tax rules should be simplified. i myself am in favour of renewable energy. however, this text is a veritable condensation of integrationist, or even federalist, ideology. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eed) in the context of the evaluation of its implementation and with a view to its revision. the text states that 'energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount of energy saved in n·w (negawatts) '. it calls for optimising energy consumption to make it more efficient and to reduce the energy consumption of households. e.while the text calls for more binding measures, the emphasis is on the flexibility that should be left to member states in transposing these directives into national law. however, the eed sets 'targets in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption' (article 3 (1) (a) of the eed). in the present economic climate, however, this energy austerity is likely to do even more damage to our industries than the current one. finally, it should be noted that, due to the stability pact, it is almost impossible for member states to make the heavy investments required by the eea itself. e. i therefore voted against this text. e. other
in writing. ‒ this report is about energy savings to be achieved within the european union. while this is a good thing in itself, in the current economic climate, this energy austerity is likely to harm our industries even more. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the leitmotif of this text is that 'energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount in nw (negawatt) of energy saved' (considering f the continuous search for energy savings, which is presented as fundamental, in particular for achieving the climate objectives set at the end of cop21, is supposed to enable us to strengthen both our energy security and our economic competitiveness. e.it is therefore called upon to optimise its energy consumption to make it more 'efficient' (from the english adjective 'efficient'), considering that 'energy savings are the first and most secure source of energy in europe' (paragraph 33), 'in an increasingly decentralised energy landscape' (paragraph 30), 'in a world of increasingly decentralised energy sources' (paragraph however, the energy efficiency directive (eeed) sets 'objectives in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption' (article 3 (1) (a) of the eeed): in the current economic context, this energy austerity is likely to harm our industries even more, especially as the rapporteur welcomes, in the explanatory memorandum, the 'good results of the ets' (or seqe), which is a flagrant failure. t is
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. some points are in the right direction, such as the recognition of the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries vis-à-vis competitors in third countries or the fact that the energy efficiency objective is accompanied by a certain latitude left to member states to adapt their instruments to the national context. however, binding targets are set by the weee, including an absolute level of final energy consumption, even though austerity policies imposed by brussels prevent states from providing the necessary investments.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the implementation of the energy efficiency directive with a view to its revision. the rapporteur stresses the potential energy savings to be achieved, in particular those linked to the renovation of the building stock. although calling for more binding measures, the text stresses the flexibility that must be granted to member states in transposing european directives. unusually, this text even addresses the problem of the competitiveness deficit of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their non-community competitors, but without ever challenging the general free trade which exacerbates unfair international competition. finally, the text includes a paragraph calling into question the current austerity which prevents member states from financing the investments needed to achieve energy efficiency targets. i have, however, abstained on this text, which calls for more binding measures.
in writing. ‒ implementation of the energy efficiency directive is essential to reach the eu's 20% target for 2020. the union has made enormous progress in this area even though the directive has not yet been transposed into the law of all member states. the first thing to do is to monitor the application of the directive in the member states. this will ensure the consistency of the union's energy efficiency policy. i voted against this report because i was not in favour of a binding 40% energy efficiency target by 2030. we must respond appropriately to environmental challenges. we will not achieve our aims by setting ourselves binding, unattainable objectives which will undermine the competitiveness of our enterprises. it is true that we must make considerable efforts in energy efficiency, but we must do so gradually. other components, such as competitiveness, jobs and growth, need to be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ the cheapest energy is the one you do not consume. energy efficiency must therefore be seen as a fully-fledged energy source which represents the amount in nw (negawatts) of energy saved, as the recent history of the world and europe has irrefutably demonstrated. in this sector, as in others, citizens' initiatives and those taken at local level are of the greatest relevance and european legislation must accompany and facilitate them. i share the view of the authors of this resolution that the potential for energy savings at local level should be exploited much better, given that local and regional authorities have a central role to play in achieving energy efficiency and in the energy transition in general. it is also at this level that the issues of equal access and energy poverty can best be addressed, and we must be extremely vigilant to ensure that the savings from 'energy efficiency' are not reserved for those (individuals and businesses) who can afford to make the necessary investments.
in writing. ‒ this report on the implementation of the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eeed) focuses on the ongoing pursuit of energy savings, with the aim of strengthening both our energy security and our economic competitiveness. it encourages, in particular, the renovation of poorly insulated buildings, with public administrations being required to set an example, while leaving flexibility to member states in transposing directives. it highlights the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their non-community competitors. however, the eed sets 'targets in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption'. such energy austerity is likely to harm our industries even more. for this reason, i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the stability pact makes it almost impossible for member states to make the heavy investments required by the ems itself.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eed) in the context of the evaluation of its implementation and with a view to its revision. the leitmotif of this text is that "energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount of energy saved in n·w (negawatts) in the form of electricity, and the amount of energy used in the form of heat, electricity and electricity". the text stresses the 'flexibility' which must be left to the member states in transposing directives, 'in order to ensure that the combination of tools and instruments is adapted at national level to the needs of the member states'. "because of the stability pact, it is almost impossible for member states to make the heavy investments required by the ems itself. e. i have therefore decided to abstain on this text e. other
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. the text stresses that the union is on track to meet its 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, but calls on member states to better implement the directive, as the union still imports more than half of its energy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because, although the report encourages energy transition and technological innovation, it seems unrealistic in several respects. for example, he advocates the abandonment of fossil energy, which seems impossible in the short to medium term.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive (ee directive). the leitmotif of this text is that energy efficiency should be considered as a source of energy in its own right, representing the amount of energy saved. the continuous search for energy savings, which is presented as fundamental, in particular for achieving climate objectives, is supposed to enable us to strengthen both our energy security and our economic competitiveness. however, the eed sets "targets in the form of an absolute level of primary energy consumption and final energy consumption" in the present economic climate, this energy austerity is likely to do even more damage to our industries, especially since the rapporteur welcomes, in the explanatory statement, the 'good results of the ets system', which is a flagrant failure. finally, due to the stability pact, it is almost impossible for member states to make the heavy investments required by the ems itself. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency is the keyword of the text. it looks at the october 2012 energy efficiency directive (eeed) and assesses the consequences and the need for amendments. he advocates energy efficiency, which means more efficient use of energy. to this end, it introduces a number of measures which may prove to be more restrictive and austere. it imposes on member states, for example, stringent measures, such as heavy investments, which are currently unrealizable. the rapporteur also calls for more flexibility and flexibility to be allowed to governments in the implementation of this programme and for more realistic targets to be set for energy efficiency. so i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. as part of the evaluation and the perspective of the october 2012 revision of the energy efficiency directive (ee directive), this report envisages the ongoing search for energy savings to enable us to strengthen both our energy security and our economic competitiveness. there are many positive points in this report which stresses the 'flexibility' which must be left to member states in transposing directives, 'so that the combination of tools and instruments is adapted at national level'. it also mentions the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their competitors outside the european union, which we approve of. nevertheless, we are opposed to the energy austerity proposed by the dde, because it is likely to cause even more damage to our industries. we also do not support the rapporteur's position that the ets (or ets) has produced 'good results', which is a resounding failure.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the october 2012 energy efficiency directive in the context of the evaluation of its implementation and with a view to its revision. energy efficiency, in other words energy saving, must be seen, according to the text, as an energy resource. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in short, the balancing of the report from several points of view, in a realistic perspective, is to his credit. while not ignoring the difficulties of industry, the report sets as an absolute the objectives of reducing energy expenditure, which may, however, be even more damaging to industry. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report requires heavy investment. if we can agree with the need for more investment, this is made impossible by the absurd austerity policy being pursued in europe. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which proposes a binding target of 40% by 2030 for energy efficiency. energy efficiency is an important lever to reduce energy consumption and combat global warming. we must strengthen it through incentives, including tax incentives, and by setting reasonable, realistic and achievable targets. as with renewable energy, energy efficiency should not be promoted through coercion.
in writing. ‒ i support environmental protection in general. i could not support this report, however, because unfortunately the radical position prevailing in the voting on the amendments was one which took no account at all of the impact of the climate targets on the european economy. the compromise i supported was unfortunately rejected and i could not therefore support the resolution as a whole. such a proposal would weaken the competitiveness of european companies vis-à-vis countries that are not concerned about the environment. but it would not be good for the environment if industry in environmentally friendly countries disappeared and moved to the countries that are among the main polluters.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text which shows that the european union is on the right track above all, it is important to note that it is mainly businesses and households that have taken up this energy need, as the directive has not yet been fully implemented in most member states. they are therefore required to apply it fully and to make every effort to achieve the objectives of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is to be compared with the progress report on renewable energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels. as such, we have called for the reduction of excessive administrative burdens on households, but especially on businesses, to the extent possible, thus limiting the potential for growth, job creation and innovation in this sector. we also recalled the need for the commission and the member states to ensure a stable regulatory framework for the different actors in the field of renewable energy, to ensure coherence between the different policies of the union and the need to increase investment in the sector. i have voted in favour of this text in accordance with these political lines.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the implementation of the 2012 energy efficiency directive, which is the centrepiece of the eu's energy efficiency strategy. energy efficiency and the energy savings it brings are of great benefit for the protection of the environment and the climate, the strengthening of the competitiveness of our economies, the creation of jobs, the fight against energy poverty and energy independence. however, the 20% energy efficiency target for 2020 is not guaranteed. we therefore call for the directive, which is the european reference framework, to be fully and correctly implemented, particularly in terms of compliance with the national plans put in place by the member states. this is no time to lower the bar for ambition. finally, we call for more coherence in energy legislation and for measures to be adapted to the smallest households.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency is the european union's priority in combating global warming. improving energy efficiency by 20% with a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy and a 20% reduction in co2 emissions is one of the european 2020 targets in terms of sustainable development. between 1990 and 2014, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23%. at the same time, the union's gdp increased by 46%. so this is proof, if any, that by reducing their impact on the environment, citizens and businesses have generated a surplus of growth. contrary to the claims of those who advocate environmental disregard, the ecological transition and energy management are not a brake on economic growth, but an adjuvant. the 40% efficiency target by 2030 set by parliament instead of the originally planned 27% is therefore a good thing. a cheap environmental policy cannot satisfy the desire to build a sustainable and prosperous europe. it is by embarking on the path of ecological transition that europe will effectively achieve its economic, social and environmental objectives.
in writing. ‒ this text realistically acknowledges the problems of competitiveness of our energy-intensive industries in relation to their non-eu competitors, but advocates energy austerity which risks harming these industries even more. i therefore chose to abstain.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. why are you getting so angry? look at how beautiful history is when freedom plays tricks on the powers that be and triumphs, driven by the will of a people. the vote by our british friends in favour of the united kingdom leaving the european union is by far the most important historical event on our continent since the fall of the berlin wall. it's a signal of freedom sent to the whole world. it is also the cry of love of a people for their country. the british have chosen a path that some claim is closed forever, and you were one of them, by the way. the british people have delivered a resounding rebuttal to those who have repeatedly proclaimed the irreversibility of the european union. it's a resounding victory for democracy. it is a slap in the face to the supporters of a european system which is increasingly based on fear, blackmail and lies. your cries of outrage, and thank you for setting an example of that earlier, your apocalyptic threats, the price of your stock, the british had nothing to do with it. they sat on it sovereignly, leaving you to your bitterness and your superficial wonder. because, really, what are you surprised about? for decades, the european union has been built against the people of europe: the french and dutch referendums trampled on in 2005, the irish forced to vote again after rejecting the lisbon treaty, the greeks forced to give up their referendum against austerity and who have been imposed in the most violent way, which is poverty for life. the british people have committed the ultimate sacrilege, breaking the chains that bound them to the european union, which has been turned into a religion by its propagandists. so, naturally, when you've been blinded for decades, implementing absurd policies that have led to deindustrialization, mass unemployment and mass immigration, oh, my god, how hard it is to come back to reality and understand what's going on. propagandists of the european union, whether you are on the left, the centre or the right, put away your dirty mines, put away your angry speeches and instead celebrate the liberation of the peoples: fully sovereign laws, real control of borders, the end of the contribution to the european union, economic patriotism, patriotism in general. this is a great future for the united kingdom, and it should motivate all of us to build a better future! i am already hearing some crazy ideas circulating: making the uk pay dearly to dissuade others from doing the same, or, even more foolish, burying brexit by putting it off to the greek calendar. these are not democratic methods. the united kingdom has decided. we respect his will, that's all. the alternative is simple: either you stick to your expensive technocratic european union and, as a bonus, the delusional plans of those who want even more europe, when the people want less. in that case, i promise you the speedy collapse of this totalitarian organization. either you abandon the european union in favour of a europe of cooperation between free states and sovereign nations. for my country, france, i pledge myself to lead it on the path of freedom, which is also the only path to greatness. long live the free nations, long live the united kingdom and long live france!
in writing. i take note of the decision of the british people to leave the european union. this rejection should lead us to ask ourselves the right questions in order to give the european citizens the right answers. thanks to the european union, france enjoys monetary stability that it would not have had if it were alone. our smes find outlets in a large group of 500 million citizens. our students can study freely in our neighbors' homes. all of this is very valuable. but europe's crisis remains deep and serious because europe needs meaning and direction. the british referendum offers an unprecedented opportunity to reopen the debate on its future. europe must be rebuilt. it must move beyond bureaucratic debate to political dialogue. it must be even more at the service of the citizens and their aspirations. renewing europe also means giving it a pilot, who can only be franco-german. the five-year term of françois hollande has killed this alliance. leaving europe will certainly have an impact on the uk and on all member states, but it requires us to move forward. failure to reform europe would be a death sentence. that's why we have to get back to work quickly.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. we want article 50 to be triggered as soon as possible and transparent negotiations to be able to start as we wanted the day after the referendum. clearly, eurosceptics and europhobes are not on this line: they are in contradiction and have no idea or plan for the future. david cameron also announced yesterday in the house of commons that he would replace commissioner hill: that is utter cynicism. we ask mr juncker to leave the replacement without a portfolio! the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the sovereign decision of the british people is dangerous for the united kingdom, and for the european union as well. it must not last, nor must it mobilize all our energies: it is time to rebuild. europe may disappear: it is urgent for the heads of state or government to finally live up to the european summit! the european parliament is ready to shoulder its share of the responsibility, he said this morning.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the ultra-federalist resolution proposed by the epp and s&d groups, which include french members of parliament from the ranks of the ps and the republicans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution with the main political groups, which, as usual, are united in their denial of democracy in favour of their euro-federalist ideology. in a policy of fear and intimidation, this text urges the united kingdom to apply article 50 immediately, to the detriment of any principle of reality, but also in total disregard for the sovereignty of this nation! instead of working to build a new relationship of friendship with the british, the european parliamentarians are simply punishing them for having chosen freedom, and are humiliating themselves before the commission, which has been declared the only legitimate negotiator. but what this referendum has shown is that the eu would be wrong to continue to want to do without sovereign nations - the only ones who are entitled to play the game of diplomacy - and without the people. in complete denial, this brussels eu is simply trying to save the eu at all costs. the toxin of freedom has, however, marked the end of the reign of this totalitarian europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution with its clearly europeanist and integrationist overtones. the stated desire to 'reform europe, improve it and make it more democratic' is a perennial theme of the european union's leaders. as usual, there is no consequence to be drawn from the message sent by the sovereign people of the united kingdom to the union.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the decision of the british people to leave the european union following the referendum held in the united kingdom. while this text respects the british people's wish to take their destiny into their own hands, it does propose to speed up the procedures so that the united kingdom can leave the european union as quickly as possible. the aim is to deteriorate the economic situation of the united kingdom in order to dissuade the other peoples of europe from breaking the chains that bind them to the union. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution which draws no conclusions from the result of this referendum and which even advocates greater integration between the member states. in this context, the europe of nations and freedoms group, of which the national front is a member, tabled an alternative proposal calling for the organisation of such a referendum in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the majority of the british people voted to leave the european union. it is a sovereign decision, regrettable as it is, but one which we must respect. the european union and the united kingdom must draw all the consequences and start the withdrawal procedure as soon as possible. the resolution adopted by parliament calls on the uk government to activate article 50 of the treaty without delay. that's necessary to clarify things. the resolution also states that it is not conceivable to enter into any negotiations until the united kingdom has activated article 50. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ since it was inconceivable that parliament would not vote on the outcome of the british referendum within hours of the european summit, i supported this resolution. i regret, however, that many of the amendments adopted in plenary, and tabled by the majority of the ppe, have watered down a draft resolution which was satisfactory in the first place. any mention of the immediate application of article 50 of the treaty on european union has disappeared, even as the uk government, lacking a comprehensive strategy following brexit, now favours inertia. worse still, the request to david cameron to notify the european council of the result of the referendum is no longer included in the final resolution. this unpleasant impression of guilty waiting is only reinforced by the rejection of certain amendments, one of which was aimed in particular at placing the brexit negotiations under the supervision of the european parliament. finally, this decidedly weak text says nothing about the irresponsibility of the european council and its president donald tusk, who last february sealed an agreement for a special status for the united kingdom in the eu, which is now expiring, but which is still likely to generate eurosceptic requests among the member states most prone to nationalist retreat.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint resolution of the european parliament which takes note of the sovereign decision taken by the united kingdom to leave the european union following the result of the referendum on 24 june last. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected and that the eu's financial interests are protected. although it must be analysed in the context of british politics, such a vote forces us to start thinking seriously about the future of the european union: what kind of integration do we want to promote? what reform of the institutional functioning of a europe of 27 today? shouldn't the eu focus on the core issues that concern our citizens: growth and jobs, security and migration management, food and agriculture, climate change and energy? we are living in a historic moment in the construction of europe, the british result must be respected but also constitute a salutary leap forward in the face of the lies told by the populists and an opportunity to correct the flaws of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this joint resolution because i would have preferred to have put an environment resolution to the vote, so that my group could express its values, its analysis of the british referendum, and its ideas for the future. this earthquake is political. this joint resolution is primarily technical. i am convinced that a political problem cannot be solved by technical means. beyond the form, this resolution has the disadvantage of presenting a monolithic and unvarnished pro-european front. the repeated efforts of the european people's party, an ally of the socialists and democrats in the grand coalition which leads the european parliament, to prevent the development of ambitious social and environmental legislation are far from the political europe we want. the fact that most of our amendments were rejected, particularly those on the supervision of the exit negotiations by the european parliament, which is the heart of european democracy, is proof of this. in the face of chaos, let us be realistic: whether it is climate, tax evasion, trafficking or terrorism, the answer cannot be found beyond our national borders. more than ever, europe is the effective answer to our ills.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which relativises the success of brexit, is part of the continuity of the federalism we have been denouncing for several years. the text aims to make full use of the lisbon treaty, to deepen economic and monetary union, to give the commission a negotiating role and to defend the drawing up of a european constitution. the british vote is a sign of the disconnect between the people and a european construction which is technocratic, ultra-liberal, bureaucratic and disconnected from reality. it is not by strengthening the commission and european integration that the states will regain their sovereignty. i therefore voted against this pro-european resolution.
in writing. ‒ the united kingdom will leave the european union. the british people have made a sovereign choice and while we may regret it, it is a decision we must accept and the consequences that will follow. europe has been in a very turbulent place since the crisis of 2008. but europe's decline is not only linked to the succession of economic and financial crises, migratory pressure and the terrorist threat. it is also the result of the lack of leadership, the shortness of breath in the franco-german engine, the absence of a major french figure capable of influencing decisions in brussels and restoring faith in the european project to the french. the decision of the united kingdom affects us but must also encourage us to turn europe into an opportunity, to recognize that we have not sufficiently heard the concerns of the people and that we must propose to them a new project in the economic, fiscal and social fields, in the defence of our borders and our identities, in the migration and asylum policy sufficiently solid to restore their confidence.
in writing. ‒ on 23 june, the british people sovereignly expressed their desire to leave the european union. the european parliament met in the wake of this historic event to adopt a resolution on the consequences of brexit, which i supported. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the withdrawal clause is invoked as soon as possible and that the divorce procedure is implemented swiftly. in my view, only after this procedure has been launched can negotiations on the new status of the united kingdom be started. in the meantime, it is imperative that uk representatives in the institutions are no longer allowed to get involved in european legislation. parliament therefore called for an internal reorganisation of the institutional structure of the union and stressed the need for reform. i am convinced that europe and its member states must quickly reconsider their position, rebuild a new european political project, question its functioning and refocus the eu on its fundamental priorities. without this, we risk a complete rejection of citizens that will cause a brexit epidemic.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on the outcome of the referendum in the united kingdom. this text is further proof that the federalist groups in this parliament have not understood or do not want to understand anything. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the springtime of the peoples is now inevitable, which is why i am fighting for a referendum in france.
in writing. ‒ the british people have decided to withdraw the united kingdom from the european union. we must respect this democratic expression, while drawing all the consequences of this painful choice which is putting europe to a serious test. the past emotion, we must master this shock, and to do this act with clarity and speed to avoid any prolonged uncertainty. the united kingdom must therefore inform its 27 european partners of its withdrawal request as soon as possible in accordance with article 50 of the treaty. the forthcoming negotiations between the european union and the united kingdom should succeed in reconciling the interests of the eu and its citizens, without turning our backs on a country which will nevertheless remain a partner with whom we must maintain good relations. because europe is a big idea and not just a big market, this departure must above all be an opportunity for a profound re-foundation of the eu, with priority given to a europe that is more democratic and therefore closer to the citizen; a europe resolutely geared towards sustainable investment, growth and employment. i am voting for this voluntarist resolution.
in writing. the british people voted to leave the european union. this historic vote will be remembered as the equivalent of the fall of the berlin wall for the ussr. the european parliament has therefore decided to respond to this flagrant failure of the eu it is fetishising: no, everything is fine in europe, the british signal is just one of their ingratitude; and yes, we have to continue as before. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. this resolution calls for the swift implementation of article 50, but it is for the sovereign government of the united kingdom to take that decision. the treatment of the uk's exit from the eu will therefore be in the image of what this tyrannical monster has done to all other peoples up to now: brutality, contempt and arrogance. i am voting against this resolution and i say to the people of europe: watch the actions of this totalitarian monster. you too may one day be a victim.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the outcome of the referendum on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. i am committed to the european union, which has guaranteed us peace for 60 years. i take note of the decision taken by our british friends and i respect it. it is motivated, among other things, by the irresponsible policy of migrant quotas, a real appeal to illegal immigration and the mass migration wave that the european peoples are suffering and rejecting. i regularly oppose these choices which contribute to the disintegration of the european union. the text calls for a swift negotiation of the uk's withdrawal to limit the legal uncertainty and uncertainty that would harm our businesses and our citizens. the resolution also takes note of the resignation of the british european commissioner and states that the european parliament will have to change its organisation to take account of a return to 27 member states. regardless of brexit, i am in favour of the united kingdom, which is our ally, remaining a major partner of the european union in all areas.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution shows the contempt for democracy which the idolaters of the european union inspire. a free people have spoken at the ballot box. his will, clear and unquestionable, must be respected and carried out. the sectarian rage shown by some members of the european parliament and by some commissioners, and not the least of them, is unacceptable. the treaties provide for negotiation to settle the details of a member state's withdrawal. since this possibility, purely ideologically, has never been seriously considered, the negotiation is likely to be complex. all the more reason to approach it rationally, in a respectful and calm atmosphere. that is not the spirit of the text we are voting on today and that is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution adopted in the extraordinary plenary following the outcome of the uk referendum, which on thursday 23 june 2016 declared the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. i respect the choice of the majority of british voters but stress the importance for the united kingdom of taking the choice of the people. in this, the country will have to activate article 50 before any agreement can be drawn up. the question now is: what kind of europe do we want? let us have the courage to affirm our ambition: that of a strong and protective europe. the european union must be firm and not allow the agenda for the coming months to be dictated by british leaders who are already beginning to realise the harmful effects of leaving the union. pragmatism, efficiency and political will will be the driving forces behind a community of destiny ready for the challenges of the 21st century.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the outcome of the referendum in the united kingdom on its withdrawal from the european union. the british people have made the decision to leave the european union. they have freely taken up their responsibilities and it is now up to them to build their future without europe. brexit is a crucial moment for the construction of europe and we must relaunch the european project as soon as possible in order to respond to the interests and expectations of the citizens. it is up to the european institutions, like the member states, to take responsibility and rebuild the eu. but for this, we must not make a mistake in the diagnosis: no need for new procedures, no need for new treatments; europe needs policy above all. to do this, the union must focus on the major issues to which it adds value, as the text recalls, and provide concrete answers to citizens on the gigantic security, geopolitical and economic challenges facing the world. we must reinvent a concrete and ambitious european project, free of all short-sighted populist temptations. it is a matter of responsibility for everyone.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, reducing emissions requires constant efforts and a transformation of our production machinery. the report before us is aimed at this objective and some of the ways in which it is proposed are good. however, this text is much more restrictive than the existing rules and will leave even less room for manoeuvre for the member states. we cannot continue on this path while europe is increasingly unequal and our industrial activities are stagnating. nevertheless, the eu is strengthening its regulatory grip, which is shackling manufacturers or pushing them to circumvent the legislation. moreover, the transition period from 2018 to 2020 is too short. the smaller producers will have great difficulty in changing their models and will live in fear of new texts that will hamper their projects in the medium and long term. more importantly, under the guise of 'harmonisation' and 'better market surveillance', the report accelerates the alignment of our standards with us standards. but what can we expect, ladies and gentlemen? that by doing so we will increase the opportunities for our industries across the atlantic? let us be realistic in the face of social crisis, economic stagnation for decades and trade wars. let's not shoot each other in the foot! let's give our builders a break and turn our eyes first to research and investment! this is a positive and constructive approach to environmental policy, this is the real european pooling of our resources, the opposite of technocracy.
in writing. the european union is only interested in integrating 'refugees' into the labour market, without looking for an alternative solution, even though immigration is a tragedy whose first victims are the immigrants themselves: an unprecedented number of deaths, poor housing or exploitation. the very notion of 'refugee' remains more than ambiguous. there is still no concrete definition because although the eu distinguishes between three categories of 'legal beneficiaries', it does not give a real definition. the eu also recognises that welcoming refugees is a palliative to europe's demographic problems: 'the eu's working age population is expected to fall by 7.5 million by 2020'. how shameful to think so when we see the unemployment figures! it is a shame that we do not prefer a birthist policy to mass immigration. the eu states that refugees "can undertake and generate economic activity that has a positive impact on host communities" without any certainty or concrete figures. in addition, integration is mentioned but assimilation is not. integration implies "demanding" and "communitarianism" whereas assimilation implies adaptation and recognition.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for this debate on this oral question. we had sounded the general call for all european states, through the european social fund, to take action on youth unemployment: through the youth guarantee on the one hand, and through the youth employment initiative on the other. these two levers are absolutely essential if we are to succeed in the fight against unemployment and we have deployed all the energy we can at the european parliament level to frontload, that is to say to load the funds available so that action can be taken very quickly; we have, in fact, increased the prefinancing of youth employment initiative projects from 1 to 30% last year, breaking even european efficiency records on that day. efficiency is what we all want. and so, to be effective, we must first measure the effects. we are asking the commission: what are the effects of the funds and policies we have set aside in the european social fund? the second point is that if we want to measure, we have to adjust these policies. i am particularly concerned, madam commissioner, about the 25-30 age group. what happened to those kids? finally, we must simplify the measures and guide the development of these future projects, because it is the future of young people that is at stake.
madam president, commissioner, three years after the launch of the youth guarantee, about one in five young people is still unemployed. we must therefore examine the effectiveness of our policy and take stock. the european union has been a great success in the past, but it is not enough to say that it is a success. at any rate, they challenge us even more. so i have a number of questions, commissioner. firstly, what is the european commission doing to simplify and make financing for youth employment accessible to the greatest number? in france, due to the complexity of the procedures, the youth employment initiative often benefits the same structures without reaching new targets. secondly, if the youth employment initiative is extended beyond 2017, how can we ensure that it benefits those who are in the blind spot of our public policies? i am thinking in particular of young people from rural areas and the least qualified. thirdly, despite the erasmus+ programme, very few young apprentices cross borders and i would say that cross-border learning projects, such as those we have in the upper rhine, are too rare. so what is europe doing to develop this type of project? (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". no, i agree with you, mr president, there is a real responsibility on the part of the member states. this is what i said when i spoke about the dysfunctions of the european union, but above all about the dysfunctions in the member states. in my country, for example, in france, there are also important improvements that should allow projects to reach a much wider audience, and to really help young people in difficulty, which is not always the case today.
in writing. since april 2013, eu member states have implemented the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative as a panacea for the youth employment problem. but if i take stock of the employment of young people in my country, and in particular of those with the lowest qualifications and those furthest from the labour market, i find that one in five young people is still unemployed in europe (25% in france and more than 50% in greece!). brexit has thus thrown a spotlight on the dysfunctions of the european union and also those in the member states. the problems remain intact. the complexity of the procedures and the european bureaucracy often prevent new targets from being reached. on the other hand, rural young people and the least qualified are still too often excluded from the labour market despite all the various measures. finally, the problem of youth employment is primarily a matter of national logic: reforms of education systems but also the promotion of apprenticeship, which is too often poorly perceived in some countries such as my own, france.
in writing. i have approved the report unanimously adopted by the committee on budgetary control which calls on parliament to postpone its decision on the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. this is the consequence of a lack of transparency on the part of the council as regards the funds entrusted to it. parliament therefore asked the council to forward its annual activity report, which would include a detailed overview of all the human resources available to the two institutions, broken down by category, grade, sex, nationality and vocational training. the report also highlights the worrying lack of transparency in the legislative process, negotiations, member states' positions and meetings. it called on the council to publish the relevant documents and to put in place a clear reporting system which would enable the public to follow legislative procedures in an open and transparent manner.
the report is to be submitted to the european parliament and the council by the end of the year. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs forenza, for our good cooperation on this report. since 2010, progress has been made by the commission and trade continues to seek to contribute, at bilateral and multilateral level, to the respect of human rights, as well as social and environmental standards. the human rights clauses in trade agreements, the presence of binding sustainable development chapters and the commission's action on the international stage must be maintained and strengthened. in this sense, we must call on the wto to take greater account of social and environmental standards in its reform. the european union's actions must go further. for example, we must pay particular attention to the gsp+ system and improve it so that the conventions are actually respected. on the other hand, certain initiatives need to be pursued. i am referring to the sustainability pact, launched in the wake of the rana plaza tragedy. the commission must continue its policy on corporate social responsibility and extend this type of action to other trading partners. i would also like to raise a request that was already made in 2010 and which has not been followed up. the commission must present as soon as possible a legislative initiative to put an end to child and forced labour. i would like to stress the importance of the effective implementation of the agreements and commitments that have been made, and to do so in full transparency. it is important that parliament is more involved in the monitoring process. as regards the union's trade strategy, i thank mrs beghin for her work. it is essential that the spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit be at the heart of the european union's trade relations with its partners. particular attention should be paid to sensitive products, in particular agricultural products, with the introduction of specific and appropriate treatments. finally, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i would like to stress that trade policy must help to protect and promote the values which the european union stands for. we also encourage the commission to continue its efforts to communicate with the public and to improve access to negotiating documents.
mr president, it is no secret that the union's trade policy is a subject of much fear and scepticism, as has been shown by the speeches which have just taken place. and it is not, contrary to what i have heard from the benches on the right, a problem of communication. it is about the reality that people live. they find that in the context of liberal globalization, widespread free trade often benefits the same people. we say: 'there are winners and there are losers' but the truth is that it is often the same winners, that is to say the big companies, and that the losers, we know them: industry, farming and public services, which are systematically dismantled. both reports are obviously going in the right direction; they outline what you might call "fair trade", but we have to be specific about a number of things. firstly, the increase in bilateral negotiations is not necessarily a guarantee of success and progress. sometimes you have to hurry slowly. second, and equally important, is having the courage to protect yourself. yes, we must protect european industry. yes, we must protect sensitive agriculture. finally, we must base our policy on values - this has been very well said by my colleagues, but there is still a lot of progress to be made.
mr president, in this institution the verse on youth mobility is often recited as a rosary bearing the hope of finding a job. the european youth strategy makes mobility the only passport to employment. i know that my colleagues in the commission are keen to take the voice of young people more seriously, as is emphasised in the programme 'a new narrative for europe' by commissioner navracsics. however, according to the opinionway barometer on youth mobility in france, 47% of young people aged 15 to 35 consider this mobility a constraint, 65% consider it a necessary step to succeed and, finally, 52% of young people surveyed would dream of a fixed place of residence without too much change, further proof that young people do not want your union of posted workers, but are rooted in a culture, a territory and a language. it is our duty to enable them to fulfil these aspirations and to be able to flourish in their own countries, just as migrants do elsewhere.
mr president, on 6 may president juncker announced the creation of a special envoy for religious freedom. but while religious minorities must be protected, it is equally important to ensure freedom of religion. the list of countries where secular activists, atheists, apostates are persecuted is far too long: yemen, syria, qatar, bangladesh, and we could go on and on. for example, last year, a young student was sentenced to three years in prison in egypt for declaring himself an atheist on facebook. i am also concerned about the separation, the division between human rights, which are indivisible. freedom of religion should not be considered separately from other fundamental rights because in some contexts religion itself is an obstacle to the exercise of certain rights: sexual and reproductive rights, lgbt rights, gender equality. we therefore ask, through this special envoy, for clear guidelines to avoid the establishment of parallel religious diplomacy and to ensure the defence of fundamental rights without any exception.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, what hatred, what rage on the part of the europeans! thank you, my dear friends, for showing your true colors. the day after brexit, i held a press conference and told the french people: "listen carefully, look carefully at them in the coming days, and then you will see the true face of the european union and its defenders". well, the least we can say is we were served. after the gigantic pre-brexit manipulations, where we were told the apocalypse according to tusk european civilization was going to collapse, the stock market was going to explode and it is hardly if the uk was not going to sink , nothing of this obviously happened. so we've moved on to the second phase, where we challenge the people, their will, democracy. bertolt brecht said, "when the people vote wrong, you must dissolve the people". in fact, that may be what you have already begun to do for years with mass immigration, but you go much further. you say, "when the people vote badly, the vote must be abolished". it's so much simpler that way, indeed. so, it was a contest: in france, it was proposed that young people vote twice, it was proposed to ban older people from voting; in the united kingdom, there were protests, until this totally bogus petition with millions of false signatures, which you have, of course, relayed in the media. at the summit on 28 and 29 june, european heads of state did not reach any conclusions on brexit: they remained dry. the european union without the united kingdom has no more ideas and no more future than the european union with the united kingdom. the challenge for the coming months is simple: will the separation between the eu and the uk be conducted in good faith or bad faith, allowing the partners to remain on good or bad terms? we have heard many europeans unable to accept the result of the thunder ballot that the british people had to pay dearly for this divorce, for the sole purpose of setting an example, of course, to deter other peoples by terror. of course, you will be shooting yourself in the foot, and you know it, because this policy of the worst will be detrimental not only to the united kingdom but above all to france and many other european countries. our exports to the united kingdom are far greater than our imports. you see, it's not in our best interest to create tension, but with you, the worst is always certain. the reality is that the links between, for example, switzerland and the countries of the european union should be a model for forging a realistic and friendly partnership with the united kingdom, but you do not want to see that. you refuse to accept that the peoples of europe reject your european union; it's as simple as that. they tell you that in every tone, they've told you that every time you've asked them that question in the last few years. you continue to want to impose more integration and more european union, and you are even considering - and i almost want to thank you for this - to pass ceta and tafta without the consent of parliaments. you'll show your true colors again. the peoples want their sovereignty back, they want to cooperate freely in a new europe of nations and peoples. so your choice is simple: either you change radically or you disappear.
mr president, the european council of 27 and 28 june shows that, as here, most european leaders have not understood the situation at all. instead of a union based on the agreement of free states developing concrete programmes of cooperation between them, you want more and more forced integration, which is increasingly arousing the distrust and hostility of the peoples. two examples of these conclusions have been given: national parliaments will not have a say in ceta, the agreement with canada, and in warsaw in july our foreign and security policy will be brought even more into line with that of nato, that is to say, with that of the united states. but autism doesn't rule out contradictions. mr weber, for the epp, is indignant at the absence of mr farage, but mr verhofstadt, for the liberals, is indignant at the fact that mr kamall is still here, and even dares to speak. mr verhofstadt explained that according to the eurobarometer, european citizens want more action from the union, particularly on migration. but yes, mr verhofstadt, to contain mass immigration, not to organise it, as we did here yesterday in this chamber. as for the united kingdom, we went through all the stages of intimidation, trying to make it look like a series of terrible catastrophes. they don't happen. they try to provoke them with self-fulfilling prophecies. we want to preserve the free movement of people, to impose it on the british if they want to preserve the free movement of trade. yet you continue to negotiate with japan, the united states and many others, who do not have free movement of people. anger blinds you, and it really seems like she's a bad advisor.
madam president, i regret to say that in preparing for the consequences of brexit, our three institutions have seriously failed. in politics, there are unpredictable events, and we have not missed them, but there are also predictable events. there was a one in two chance, or rather a risk, that the british referendum would lead to brexit. we had to prepare for it in order to deal with the many problems posed to each of our institutions by the departure of a member state. some of us have tried, but to no avail. so today we have to deal with very sensitive issues, with warmth and emotion, because they concern people, colleagues and friends. for example, could we find ourselves in a situation where a member who would leave the family would preside over family meetings? can we accept that a european law which will not apply to the country which is leaving us is adopted by a majority obtained through the representatives of that country against a minority of countries to which the law will apply? what is the legitimacy of a commissioner appointed by the country leaving the union? jonathan hill has responded with great elegance, but he will have a successor. and finally, we leave the decision to the individual conscience of each person concerned. it's very unpleasant for them and it's unpleasant for us. what about the officials? there are 1,900 british agents working in our institutions. they obviously have their place with us. but what will their future be? can they be promoted to positions they would only occupy for a few months? they have legitimate rights, but so do their colleagues, and naturally the union's interest must prevail. it is urgent that our three institutions come together to find a common answer to these questions, and that depends only on us, without waiting for the decisions that depend on london.
madam president, mr tusk, we are at a time when europe is putting its very survival at stake. you are speaking after a european council, and three quarters of your speech is devoted to the issue of economic migrants - hardly a word about brexit. you are in fact acting directly as the gravedigger of this europe. the intergovernmental logic has failed and continues to fail. you made corridor deals with mr. cameron, and we've seen where that's gotten us. so please, for the sake of europe, let the commission, let the european parliament do the negotiating. i do trust those who defend the general european interest, not the interest of the states. mr monnet said: 'europe is here to bring people together, not to bring states together'. think about it. i'll just finish. mr juncker, i trust in your will to lead europe out of this crisis and to defend the 27 against the interests of the united kingdom alone. just a word to ponder: mr. einstein said, "i know you have a sense of humor", that madness is hoping, by doing the same thing over and over again, to get a different result. think about that and try to get out of the public policies that we are currently implementing.
madam president, the cowardly abandonment of the brexit leaders, refusing to face the situation they themselves created, says a lot about the significant threats that now hang over britain. but i am saying that there are also significant risks for those who remain - risks of disintegration, of being stuck, of being torn apart - if we are not able to change what must be, to take initiatives, to rethink europe, its objectives, its rules and its functioning. what the peoples of europe are waiting for is a vision, a perspective, not just that of the market, because we do not give our lives to the market, but that of a political, efficient, useful europe, refocused on the essentials, that of a democratic europe, in which citizens will finally be involved in the decisions taken in their name. i call on all european leaders to realize this before it is too late. it's really urgent.
madam president, mr tusk, mr juncker, colleagues, the british people have spoken and they have decided to leave the union. if we regret that decision, it is binding on all of us and must be respected. we must draw the consequences and approach this departure with reason and the general interest as compasses. we have, of course, a historic responsibility to give new meaning to the concept, to build a new european horizon which is not limited to the market. the next few months will be spent on this re-foundation, i hope. but we also have immediate responsibilities, including the budgetary consequences of the uk's departure. the commission must assess the budgetary implications of the departure of our british friends, with the question of their cheque and the discount, without waiting for article 50 to be activated. we must prepare the budgetary scenarios that will be used in the negotiations. parliament must be informed in real time and must be fully involved in this work throughout the procedure. but, apart from these negotiations on the uk's withdrawal, these warning signs show our shortcomings and, first of all, that of our budget, a "budget croupion", without ambition, not really serious and not really sincere. not really serious because we cannot continue any longer with a budget that is based almost exclusively on contributions from the member states, which leads us to budgetary shortages. we must begin the process of establishing own resources. not really sincere: youth unemployment, the migration and refugee crisis, cop 21, the agricultural crisis, internal security, growth, employment and territorial and social cohesion, all these priorities are known and shared by all, and yet the means are not there. the european union needs a budget that is commensurate with its ambitions. if we don't do that, it's going to be piece by piece disintegration.
madam president, i wished the united kingdom could be in bremain and it is in brexit today. i believe that as a european institution it is our responsibility to deal with this matter as soon as possible and to reduce this uncertainty which is raising doubts, doubts which undermine the basis for any revival of the european project. it is in the interests of the british people and the 27 countries. i am counting on you, mr president and mr president, to make that happen. president donald tusk, president jean-claude juncker, you are two of the five presidents who drew up a report on the future of the euro zone before brexit. i hear some people say that after brexit we should avoid deepening the divisions in the european union and that the euro area cannot be dealt with as a matter of urgency. if you do not do something about it, there will be no more europe because there will no longer be the absolute foundation of an economic and monetary union around the euro. i am looking forward to your speedy proposals to relaunch and implement the proposals in the report by the five presidents, which you are the authors of.
mr president, by lying and saying anything about the european union, the farages, the johnsons and a few others have won a victory which they do not know what to do with today. they're leaving the ship in disgrace. even if he had been elected, mr cameron would have known that this kind of referendum was risky, because it crystallized all the discontent. we've seen others who have suffered the same fate. these discontents are partly linked to the functioning of the european union, sometimes rightly so, but the main reason for the rejection is the social misery, the deregulation of labour, the poverty in the rural world. from this point of view, the 'no' card is quite edifying, particularly in england. so the british government was partly responsible for the 'no'. it does not relieve the european union of its responsibilities, and today swift decisions must be taken to restore the citizens' confidence, to give them prospects and, as mrs thomas said earlier, to give them a budget which actually allows them to put policies in place.
mr president, we note the decision of the british people - a sovereign decision - and we deplore it. i personally regret it very much, but what is done is done, what is voted is voted. so, after brexit, what do we do? firstly, we are trying to remain loyal, consistent, to fully respect the decision of the sovereign british people, and therefore to move quickly, within a reasonable time, towards actually starting a withdrawal procedure, a negotiation in which we will have to work towards building a new relationship between the united kingdom and the european union - a healthy, friendly, balanced relationship, based on mutual benefit, but without concessions. so no small arrangements, no small accommodations, no hesitation or procrastination, no cherry picking, no europe to the letter. we need clarity, firmness, but also stability and, above all, we need, in the face of this brexit, to think about reviving, renewing and rebuilding the european project. the task is immense. it takes clarity, courage and determination.
mr president, i have agreed to this explanation because i did not support the resolution adopted at the last meeting in brussels. i regret the decision of the british people to leave the european union, but i fully respect it, and i felt at that last meeting that perhaps it was better to let the emotions cool a little and act more objectively. and that is also the main reason why i do not support this resolution, because even from the individual parts of the resolution, there are simply certain emotions to be felt without having a substantive discussion about how to set up the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom in a way that is beneficial for both sides. that is why i have also been delayed, and perhaps i should add that we can call on the united kingdom to start the process of withdrawal quickly, but as we know, it is entirely up to it under the treaty of lisbon and its government has to decide when it will itself start the process of ending its membership of the european union under article 50.
mr president, you say that you intend to take note of the departure of the united kingdom from the european union and that this means that europe must now, very sadly, be reformed, but you are careful not to say how you intend to do this. the only thing we have heard so far is mr schäuble telling us that for him the future development of europe is a further tightening of control over the budget of the nation states and an increasingly rigid control over the social rules which are destroying our societies in favour of capital. i believe that the europe that has been built is a europe of social violence, as we see in every country whenever a posted worker arrives, stealing bread from the workers who are there, a europe of political violence, as we have seen applied in cyprus and greece, and a europe of war violence, like the one you are preparing against russia. all this is madness and i tell you, this europe - the people keep telling you this - either you change it in favour of human beings or we will all leave it, because no one wants to live in a place like this anymore which opposes the slightest effort made by our citizens for their own development and that of their children. in the meantime, the truth is, we either change her or we leave her. and this is a lesson you need to hear. no, britain is not made up of racist and xenophobic citizens; no, a "no" vote is not a vote for war and against europe. the vote of the british people, like that of my own country, is a vote for the union of peoples, for peace and for social co-ordination, but you do not want that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with peru on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations, i believe that such agreements are not appropriate at the present time. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. even if peru does not pose a direct threat, i do not think it would be wise to make such an agreement in the present context, regardless of the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of this agreement, which is a step forward in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru. the agreement will provide the eu with an additional tool to strengthen economic and cultural relations and political dialogue with peru, particularly on the issue of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because if the rapporteur asks the european commission to observe possible developments with regard to the criteria relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, this shows that there are considerable problems. in the context of mass illegal immigration, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to make it easier (in particular by extending the validity of visas) for peruvian citizens intending to travel to europe to obtain a visa.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which approves a report signed between the union and peru on 14 march last, which grants visa exemption to any citizen of one of the two contracting parties travelling to the territory of the other. apart from the fact that the arguments used to justify this agreement do not seem convincing to me, this policy of visa-free travel in all directions is a real scandal in the context of the terrible migration crisis europe is going through.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this agreement between the european union and peru on the short-stay visa waiver. this text provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and peruvian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the policy of liberalization which the commission is constantly trying to impose on us in the context of the migration crisis currently affecting the european union seems to me completely out of place. the commission argues that the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking, will be greatly strengthened. on the one hand, i do not see any substantial advantages in these areas with this agreement. on the other hand, i am concerned that the commission, despite a clear view of the risks posed by such an agreement, may insist on wanting to open the borders of the european union.
in writing. ‒ given the mass immigration facing european states, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the agreement of 14 march 2016, which is provisionally applied pending the approval of the european parliament, provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and peru for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa exemption will benefit all categories of individuals except those who are gainfully employed. the agreement is expected to boost tourism and help strengthen trade relations between the two sides. although the situation regarding illegal migration from peru has improved, it seemed highly inappropriate to conclude such an agreement at a time when the member states of the european union are experiencing an unprecedented influx of migrants. therefore, i consider it essential that peru remains a key partner in the fight against organised crime without liberalising visas for its nationals. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report is a consultation of the european parliament on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru. it aims to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas and provides for a visa-free travel regime for european and peruvian citizens travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days. considering that this agreement between the european union and peru will strengthen their economic and cultural relations and intensify the political dialogue between the two parties, i supported this report.
in writing. i have supported the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and peru on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement will deepen economic and cultural relations and political dialogue between the european union and the republic of peru. it was important, however, that this agreement be accompanied by the joint declaration on cooperation on irregular immigration, in which the union and peru recall their commitments on the readmission of their irregular migrants.
in writing. ‒ the agreement signed on 14 march 2016, which is applied on a provisional basis pending the approval of the european parliament, provides for a visa-free travel regime for eu citizens and peruvian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, except for the purpose of gainful employment. it aims to boost tourism and help strengthen trade and investment relations. peru can also become a key partner in the fight against organised crime, including drug trafficking and human trafficking. however, cooperation in this area does not require visa liberalization, but the opposite. however, as i am opposed to any visa liberalization, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: in a context of mass illegal immigration, we oppose any visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to approve the implementation of the agreement between peru and the european union on the short-stay visa waiver as analyses have shown that the risk of irregular immigration from peru has decreased significantly and the provisions of the agreement do not apply to french guiana. in addition, the peruvian authorities have committed themselves to facilitating the readmission of their irregular migrants. the agreement, which was signed in march but was to be submitted to the european parliament under the consultation procedure, provides for a system of reciprocity. the visa waiver will also apply to european citizens travelling to peru for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the agreement - signed on 14 march 2016 and provisionally applied pending the approval of the european parliament - provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and peruvian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. as europe is suffering from uncontrolled immigration, it seemed only natural to me to be against visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a visa waiver for peruvian nationals. the purpose of this agreement is to simplify the procedure for issuing short-stay visas for peruvian and european nationals. this is a visa-free travel arrangement for a stay of up to 2 months over a period of 4 months. this will strengthen cultural exchanges between europeans and peru, allowing for increased movement and mobility. this exemption proposal was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of an agreement with the republic of peru to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement between the european union and peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the rapporteur calls on the european commission to monitor possible developments in the criteria relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, which clearly confirm that there are many important problems. the report also mentions that peru could become a key partner in the fight against organised crime, including drug trafficking and human trafficking, which can represent important areas of cooperation. this is a rather bizarre observation, since cooperation in this area does not require visa liberalisation, on the contrary. the visa exemption is likely to exacerbate the problems. moreover, in the context of mass illegal immigration, i am opposed to any further visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ the text validates the agreement signed on 14 march 2016 by the european union and peru. it allows citizens to travel between the two countries without a visa for a maximum of 90 days, for a total of 180 days (outside paid employment). the report also stresses the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat drug trafficking and organised crime. tourism could certainly benefit, but i do not think that the situation of massive migration crisis in which europe is plunged will improve. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report concerns an agreement signed on 14 march 2016 providing for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and peru for short stays (maximum 90 days in any 180-day period). peru is a relatively stable state whose nationals have little difficulty in obtaining schengen visas. however, in view of the real dangers of drug trafficking in peru, we cannot approve this agreement.
in writing. ‒ where cooperation with certain third countries allows, a reciprocal short-stay visa exemption (i.e. mainly for tourism) is negotiated. the council, acting on behalf of the states, shall decide. the criteria observed are as much the political situation, respect for human rights, as the absence of 'risk of irregular migration'. this is peru, with which the eu has signed specific free trade and readmission agreements (for the return of migrants). however, considering that peru is one of the only countries in latin america whose citizens do not yet have a short-stay visa exemption to travel to the eu, i vote in favour. i also voted in favour of this exemption for colombia at the previous voting session. i would stress, however, that the request for parliament's consent is again a demonstration of the eu's democracy pantomime, since the agreement has actually been in force since last march.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the rapporteur only invites the european commission to observe possible developments with regard to the criteria relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, when the problems are colossal. in the context of mass illegal immigration, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement was signed on 14 march 2016 and applied provisionally pending the approval of the european parliament. it provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and peruvian nationals who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. even though peru is not a country of origin for the majority of the migration flows to france, in the context of mass illegal immigration, we are opposed to any visa liberalisation and we are voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ in a context of mass immigration, i am opposed to any visa liberalisation and therefore to this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for a reciprocal visa-free regime for short-term stays for citizens of the european union and peru. this agreement will strengthen the economic and cultural links linking peru to our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mariya gabriel. the european parliament was to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru, which had already been negotiated between the republic of peru and the european commission. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the agreement, including a recommendation to the council to approve the conclusion of the agreement. the purpose of the proposal is to conclude an agreement with the republic of peru to facilitate the issue of short-stay visas. the agreement takes account of the situation of member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. it provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and of the republic of peru who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the schengen agreements forbid france to decide which countries it wants to grant this kind of provision or not. in the current context of mass immigration to europe, i am opposed to any liberalization of visas. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the agreement signed between the european union and peru to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas for european and peruvian citizens. nationals of both zones will now be able to travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver, signed on 14 march 2016 and provisionally applied pending the approval of the european parliament. the agreement will make it possible for citizens of the european union and peru to travel without a visa to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all citizens with a valid passport, regardless of the purpose of the trip, except for the purpose of gainful employment. this agreement is a good step forward in the deepening of relations between the union and peru. it will boost tourism and help to strengthen trade and investment relations. it will also allow for the continuation of regular and in-depth political dialogue on various issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. finally, cooperation between the union and peru will be beneficial in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and peruvian nationals who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to facilitate the travel regime for peruvian nationals. the european parliament must ratify an agreement signed on 14 march between the european union and peru, which provides for a visa-free regime for european and peruvian citizens for a maximum of 90 days (except for paid employment). the report adds that there is a need to be alert to possible illegal immigration, public order and security problems. i have opposed this liberalisation and will oppose any further visa liberalisation, as i have seen the problems facing the eu with regard to illegal mass immigration. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ since last december, the eu has concluded agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with 19 countries. the caribbean and pacific islands were the most affected for reasons mainly related to tourism. at the time, i was already surprised by the choice of the united arab emirates, given the countless violations of human rights and the rule of law in general in this country, a hotbed of international terrorism. this time, peru is exempted. the entry into force of this exemption agreement was delayed pending the introduction of biometric passports, a prerequisite for obtaining this visa facilitation. that's all i'm saying. i regret that, as with all these agreements, it was put in place in march before it was approved by the european parliament, which turned it into a registry chamber. the eu/ngl group supports the free movement of persons and therefore the liberalisation of visas, particularly for short stays. i still have my doubts, however, about the choice of countries which benefit from it made by the commission. i voted yes.
in writing. - i voted against this text. it proposes to establish a more binding regulation than the existing directives, including stricter standards for most engines already covered by directive 97/68/ec, and to extend its scope to other engine power categories. the text is a desire for standardization, as opposed to a well-understood principle of subsidiarity. this text is also part of the political project to create a transatlantic single market. finally, it brings an additional difficulty to european industry at a time when the urgency is to support european industrial production.
in writing. ‒ engines from non-road mobile machinery make a significant contribution to air pollution and are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter (pm) emissions in the eu moreover, their share of total nox emissions in the eu will increase over the same period from 15 to 19% in 2020. while the standards for emissions from road vehicles have become stricter, the measures for non-road mobile engines have lagged behind. this is why a new legislative framework addressing these sectors is key to achieving the objectives of better air quality in the european union.
in writing. ‒ this proposal substantially updates the type-approval system for engines of the emnr with regard to technical requirements for emissions. this legislation is generally more restrictive for manufacturers and places a new sector of industry in an increased difficulty. moreover, these rules apply to a considerable number of objects, from lawnmowers to motorboats. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ emissions from non-road vehicles account for 15% of total nitrogen dioxide (nox) emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the eu. the european parliament was then called upon to consider comprehensive legislation to regulate emissions from this type of craft. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this report which proposes draft updates of the type approval rules and emission limits for engines for non-road machinery, including lawnmowers, bulldozers, diesel locomotives and certain boats.
in writing. ‒ non-road mobile machinery (enmr: agricultural tractors, carts, lawnmowers, etc.) is, according to the commission's impact study, the source of a significant amount of pollution: it produces, among other things, 5% of the emissions of fine particles in the eu. the text therefore provides for stricter emission standards for enmr engines and for the extension of the scope of existing regulations to other engine power categories. this report is in fact leading to a standardisation which flouts the key principle of subsidiarity and which is part of the disastrous project of the transatlantic single market. moreover, at a time when it is important to support european industrial production, it only adds to the burden on an already struggling european industry. so i could only object.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which validates the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft regulation. the environmental perspective is commendable, but it is being used to the detriment of the principle of reality, which calls for more flexibility in the transition period. moreover, the motives behind this new regulation are well known: it is to harmonise european legislation with us legislation in the context of the ptci, to the detriment not only of the principle of subsidiarity but also of the competitiveness of european industry.
in writing. ‒ while the text of this regulation is in favour of limiting emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which i can only support, for combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, it does have the following very negative features: it provides for harmonisation with us standards in the context of the tafta negotiations, and it aims at a standardisation of european standards, which will undermine the diversity of the supply of these products and the competitiveness of european manufacturers. i therefore voted against.
in writing. according to the commission's impact study, non-road mobile machinery is responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union. the current limits are defined by directive 97/68/ec, but technological developments and the desire to standardise the internal market would, in their view, justify a new regulation. this proposal sets a much more restrictive legislative framework for manufacturers of non-road mobile machinery such as lawnmowers. on the one hand, the resulting standardisation of standards is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity; the new regulation is also part of the plan to create a single transatlantic market. it is also absolutely counterproductive to tighten up the current legislation at a time when our companies are already suffering unfair international competition because of the environmental dumping by emerging countries. for all these reasons, i was opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery. the first objective is to improve air quality. the second objective is to create a harmonised market within the european union and with our main trading partners worldwide. non-road mobile machinery is responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the union. the aim is to set stricter standards for engines. the european union intends to align itself with us standards where they are stricter than european standards. i am in favour of finding a reasonable balance between the health and environmental concerns put forward by the commission and the competitiveness of the union's manufacturing industry, which is vital for our jobs. a stable regulatory environment for industry must be ensured.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to introduce a limit on the number of particles emitted by non-road mobile machinery (trains, cranes, combine harvesters, tractors, etc.). the political agreement reached with the council proposes ambitious reduction targets but also exemptions for certain sectors to give them time to comply with the new proposed standards. i have also made a special effort to adapt the legislation to the particular case of locomotives with a payback period of more than 15 years and agricultural machinery. i believe that these new provisions are balanced in the light of the emission reduction objectives and the technical and economic constraints faced by the various sectors, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery. as the non-road mobile machinery sector is one of many sectors contributing to the emission of harmful gases or particles, this report presents a balanced compromise between health and environmental concerns on the one hand and the competitiveness of the union's manufacturing industry and jobs on the other.
in writing. ‒ improving air quality is absolutely essential for the protection of human health and the environment. this is one of the reasons why i supported the gardini report, which aims to strengthen the emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmes) and extends the scope of these emission limits to new categories of machinery and new pollutants. i welcome the balance of this work, which takes account of the economic and technical constraints of emission limitation for sectors using emnrs. it is essential that they have sufficient time to change the design and manufacture of engines and machines to bring themselves up to date with the new standards. i therefore fully support this balanced and reasonable report, which aims to protect the health of citizens and the environment while preserving the economic viability of the sectors concerned by the use of emnr.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes to establish stricter standards for most engines already covered by directive 97/68/ec in the form of a regulation, which is more binding than the directives it replaces. it aims to extend the scope of this directive to other engine power categories, types of combustion and fuels used, and to a number of additional engine categories. the commission and the rapporteur believe that technological progress justifies the strengthening of legislation. the latter, however, is a challenge to an industry sector. i am opposed to the desire to bring european legislation closer to american legislation, to the uniformity of the internal market and to a form of planned obsolescence which excludes a large number of engines that are valid beyond the transition period, so i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we criticise this text for bringing additional difficulties to european industry at a time when the urgent need is to support european industrial production.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. it strengthens the emission limits for non-road mobile machinery, a major step forward for the health of those who work with these machines every day. it also extends the scope of emission limits to new categories of engines and pollutants while simplifying the current legal framework. this simplification and greater flexibility of administrative procedures will benefit smes, which must not be the victims of overly scrupulous and bureaucratic regulations! finally, it takes account of the specific nature of the agricultural, railway and river transport sectors, which are so strategic for the development of our economy.
in writing. ‒ the final text proposes to establish, in the form of a regulation (which is more binding in nature than the directives it replaces), stricter standards for most engines already covered by directive 97/68/ec and to extend its scope to other engine power categories, types of combustion and fuels used, and a number of additional engine categories. the commission and the rapporteur believe that technological progress justifies the strengthening of legislation, which, through a virtuous circle, improves the competitiveness of industry. this ideal vision is always denied, and i reproach this text with: 'standardization against well-understood subsidiarity; to be part of the political project to create a transatlantic single market; to bring additional difficulty to european industry at a time when the urgency is to support european industrial production; a form of obsolescence designed to banish a large number of valid engines beyond the transition period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elisabetta gardini on the proposal for a regulation on 'emission limit and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery'. considering that the latter are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter, it is imperative to strengthen the emission limits applicable to those engines and to extend the scope of the emission limits to new categories of engines and to new pollutants. such measures are, in my view, essential to ensure a gradual reduction in polluting emissions from fossil fuels. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which strengthens the emission limits for non-road mobile machinery and extends the scope of the emission limits to new categories of machinery and new pollutants. the text seeks to ensure a balanced approach between the competitiveness of european industry and environmental protection, even though these machines account for almost 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery. non-road mobile machinery is the source of a significant amount of pollution, according to the commission's impact study: 15% of nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu. the new text is justified by the development of technologies which make it possible to produce less polluting engines, the desire to bring european legislation closer to american legislation and the desire to bring the internal market a little closer together. the rules apply to a wide range of objects, from lawnmowers to motorboats. this text is a standardisation against a well-understood subsidiarity. it is part of the political project to create a transatlantic single market. it is a further challenge to european industry at a time when the urgent need is to support european industrial production. in addition, it introduces a form of obsolescence designed to banish a large number of valid engines beyond the transition period.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make a fundamental change to directive 97/68/ec, which governs engines. the evolution of technology is bringing new types of engines to the market, which are less polluting and more efficient. the rapporteur proposes that the standards and technical requirements should be strengthened and extended. these legislative developments clearly demonstrate a desire to approximate to us legislation and to standardize this market. i do not think that progress justifies more stringent rules. the commission's study which seems to show that non-road mobile machinery (nmme) is the source of more pollution, representing 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu, does not allow it to plan to end it through stricter regulation. this project is a challenge to european industrial production and is part of the idea of a transatlantic market. i voted against it in a very strong way.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report is a proposal for a regulation on emissions from non-road mobile machinery. non-road mobile machinery, which accounts for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union, is partly covered by directive 97/68/ec. in addition to the fact that a regulation is by its nature more binding than a directive (which requires prior transposition into the law of the member states), the proposal for a regulation introduces more binding emission limitations than the directive referred to above. it also extends its scope to additional categories of engines and vehicles. we disapprove of this draft regulation both in principle and in terms of its provisions. it is an american-inspired model and represents a further step in the unification of the european car market. its strict provisions are creating additional difficulties for the european automotive industry, which is currently in the throes of an unprecedented economic crisis. finally, too many valid engines are deemed obsolete beyond a deadline.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to reduce pollutant emissions (in particular carcinogenic ultrafine particles) from non-road mobile machinery. more specifically, it is about curbing air pollution from tractors, lawn mowers, bulldozers, locomotives, inland waterway vessels, etc., which cause about 15% of nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu. the commission proposes to establish stricter standards for engines already covered by directive 97/68/ec and to extend its scope to other engine power categories, combustion types and fuels used, as well as to a number of additional engine categories, in order to fill any gaps in the legislation. the regulation sets stricter emission limits for nitrogen oxides (nox), hydrocarbons (hc), carbon monoxide (co) and particulate matter to adapt them to new technologies. in addition, the report proposes a new monitoring system to assess the performance of engines in real life to close the gap with laboratory tests. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this proposal substantially updates the type-approval system for engines of the emnr with regard to technical requirements for emissions. this legislation is generally more restrictive for manufacturers and places a new sector of industry in an increased difficulty. moreover, these rules apply to a considerable number of objects, from lawnmowers to motorboats. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the proposal substantially updates the type-approval system for engines for non-road mobile machinery with regard to technical requirements for emissions. this legislation is generally more restrictive for manufacturers and places a new sector of industry in an increased difficulty. it should be noted that these rules apply to a considerable number of objects, from lawnmowers to motorboats. the commission and the rapporteur believe that technological progress justifies the strengthening of legislation, which, through a virtuous circle, improves the competitiveness of industry. this view is still being denied, and we reproach this text for 'standardizing' in a way that goes against a well-understood principle of subsidiarity, for being part of the political project to create a transatlantic single market, for adding a new difficulty to european industry at a time when the urgent need is to support its production, and for encouraging a form of planned obsolescence by banning a large number of engines that are valid beyond the transition period. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the political project to create a transatlantic single market. it will also bring additional difficulties to european industry at a time when the urgent need is to support european industrial production. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on emission limit and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. this report provides a balanced compromise between the need to protect the environment and the need not to undermine the competitiveness of european union enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i object to this text: it is a standardisation operation against a well-intentioned subsidiarity; it is part of the political project to create a transatlantic single market; it is an additional difficulty for european industry at a time when the urgent need is to support european industrial production; a form of obsolescence designed to banish a large number of valid engines beyond the transition period. i voted against this report, of course.
‒ certain non-road mobile machinery, such as certain boats or diesel locomotives, account for 15% of total nitrogen dioxide (nox) emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the european union. i voted in favour of rules which will limit these emissions but which will not jeopardise the competitiveness of our european companies in the sector, which will be able to comply quickly with the european regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on emission limit and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery such as lawnmowers, bulldozers, diesel locomotives and certain boats. these engines are responsible for 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the union. it was therefore necessary to update the current legislation to take account of technical developments. we have tightened emission limits for many types of engines, extended legislation to other engine categories, simplified administrative procedures and strengthened market surveillance rules. the commission should also implement monitoring programmes to determine the discrepancy between measured and actual emissions. i think the text strikes a good balance between protecting the environment and health on the one hand, and the competitiveness of european businesses on the other.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the requirements for emission limits for non-road mobile machinery. the aim of this text is to extend the scope of european legislation in the field of non-road engines with a view to harmonising the market and reducing distortions on it. the regulation aims to simplify the current legal framework and administrative procedures. the primary aim of this report is to ensure the protection of the environment and the health of people working in the vicinity of machinery and therefore particularly exposed to emissions. the report recommends that member states should be able to prohibit the use of combustion engines on health and safety grounds. internal combustion engines are a major source of greenhouse gas and fine particulate matter emissions that are particularly harmful to human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ non-road mobile machinery accounts for 5% of the eu's particulate matter emissions. the text thus seems to be moving in the right direction by proposing harmonisation of standards across the european union with a view to reducing these particulate emissions. the fight to preserve the environment is a matter for us all. however, the report does present some dangerous points for our car industry. manufacturers are investing in making their engines less polluting and are succeeding in reducing emissions. the regulation therefore seems too harsh in view of the current crisis in the automobile sector. the report also contributes politically to the creation of the transatlantic single market with the united states. finally, it indirectly advocates a form of programmed obsolescence of engines which are still valid. constitutionally, this text is a regulation binding on the member states, a common eu procedure which i denounce every day. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the integration of 'refugees' into the labour market. there are several problems with this text. first, it makes no distinction between refugees and economic migrants, whereas this distinction is paramount in the context of a migration crisis. the second problem is the eu's strategy for the integration of refugees: brussels wants to put everything in place to find them a job within 6 months, while it has been unable to offer this to european citizens. finally, the arrival of migrants is presented as an "opportunity" for european citizens, but the security risks that these flows can generate are not mentioned at any time.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the commission's work towards a common approach to foster the integration of refugees into the labour market and their greater social inclusion. we call on the member states to put in place effective integration policies without delay and to make available sufficient financial resources to ensure the rapid and full integration of refugees into the labour market and their social inclusion, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as a whole because it is peppered with gender theory (protecting refugees because they are more exposed to risks, because they are more threatened, because it is more difficult for them to find a job...) and anti-extremist struggle (the report notes the rise of xenophobic rhetoric, ambient racism and anti-migrant behaviour). on the other hand, nothing is said about security risks: there is no mention of the risks that migrants pose to european citizens, nor of the terrorist threat. worse, the report supports the commission when it condemns member states that have not (could) put in place the arrangements for the reception of migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on member states to promote the social inclusion of refugees by integrating them into the labour market. i note that work is the best way to learn a language and the culture of the host country. however, i raise the alarm about the use of refugees as cheap labour (especially in the agro-food and construction industries). this situation is causing unacceptable social dumping which must be denounced and resolved by the introduction of a european law for asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, 5 july, by adopting by a large majority a resolution on the 'social inclusion and integration into the labour market' of 'refugees', the euro-globalists who preside over the destinies of our drifting old continent have once again confirmed murphy's law: with them, the worst is always certain. this is a text which, among other immigration-related delusions, encourages the development of voluntary associations and community-based mutual aid services (§18), calls on the member states to 'ensure that asylum seekers are treated in the same way as union nationals' in their access to the labour market (§32), 'stresses the positive effects of refugee mobility' (§36)... and 'expresses concern at the decision of some member states to close their borders' (§38) to these generous migrants who would constitute an 'opportunity' for our civilisation in full demographic decline. a text which, of course, constantly confuses 'refugees' and 'migrants' in order to ensure their better and more durable settlement in our territories, and this is the directive on posted workers extended to all migrants of today and tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ as i did in the culture committee which delivered an opinion on this text, i strongly opposed this report on the social inclusion of refugees and their integration into the labour market. first of all, the rapporteur deliberately confused the terms 'refugee' and 'migrant', the former being simply a temporary stay due to a conflict. the report maintains the confusion in order to advocate for more legal immigration, to the detriment of the european population: immigration is used to respond to the demographic challenge rather than to implement smart birth policies. while the european union is already suffering from around 10% unemployment, the text calls for everything to be put in place (language courses, social assistance, supported jobs) for the integration of migrants into the labour market, which shows once again that the supporters of globalism still prefer 'the other to themselves', our unemployed having, for their part, only to continue to impoverish themselves. finally, the report is supposedly humane in its treatment of the precarious situation of migrants, but it does not mention the security issues or the problems of reception capacity for member states.
in writing. ‒ while i am in favour of ensuring a proper reception for genuine refugees, this report too often confuses genuine refugees with migrants, most often for economic reasons. how can we provide jobs for all these migrants when we cannot provide permanent jobs for our own young people? i also read in the report that this massive immigration would be a good thing for france, while the settlement of these populations on the territory weighs heavily on the financial balances of our public accounts. finally, the argument of demographic advantage could be replaced by an incentive policy of birth control. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ while the member states of the european union are experiencing an unsustainable influx of migrants, the report considers that the arrival of these illegal migrants represents an economic and cultural opportunity for our western societies. the rapporteur goes so far as to say that their social inclusion and economic integration would help to remedy the european demographic crisis, characterised by an ageing population resulting in particular from a fall in fertility. it is truly scandalous that the european union should prefer to focus on the professional integration of these illegal migrants rather than on combating the mass unemployment that millions of our fellow citizens are suffering from. in reality, the european commission is using this humanitarian crisis as a pretext to satisfy the demands of the big business, which sees in this human tragedy an opportunity to bring in cheap labour. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to provide answers to the challenge of social integration of refugees in the context of the migration crisis, as well as their integration into the labour market and education. the report calls on the member states to ensure full and rapid integration into the labour market and social inclusion of refugees, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment, but also with the national labour market situation and national and european legislation. it called for their integration to be promoted for the duration of their stay in europe through access to public services, including housing, healthcare and social protection, integration courses, language learning modules and other education and training measures. finally, it called for the mobilisation of a new financial instrument for the integration of refugees within the european budget. i have supported this report, considering that the integration of refugees into the labour market is a prerequisite for their social inclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this non-binding text on the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees. it is essential to distinguish between refugees, who must be able to integrate into our societies through education and access to employment, and economic migrants, who we can no longer welcome in europe and who must be returned to their countries of origin. because refugees must be able to access the labour market and not be a financial burden on the host country, i am particularly in favour of minors and young people being able to have access to the appropriate training, learning modules and language courses which are essential for their integration.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on the vote on this report because too many points are problematic in my view. first, the terms 'refugees', 'asylum seekers' and 'economic migrants' are not clearly differentiated, which can distort the interpretation of the text. moreover, while i am of course in favour of the social inclusion and integration of refugees into the labour market, i do not think that courses in their mother tongue are beneficial: on the contrary, they could represent a serious obstacle to the integration of these populations, which is the aim of this report! i am also not in favour of the revision of the regulation on the reception conditions for migrants: it was already revised in 2013 and it is up to the member states alone to apply it!
in writing. ‒ there is a need to harmonise administrative and judicial procedures between member states so that all asylum applications in the union are dealt with in the same way and within the same time limits. such harmonisation is also desirable as regards access to the labour market for refugees who have been granted the right of asylum in europe. to facilitate their integration, it is necessary to assess their skills in a timely and fair manner, and to recognise and validate their qualifications.
in writing. ‒ this text amalgamates the terms 'refugee' and 'migrant'. the concept of 'refugee' implies that a person will eventually return to his country of origin when the conflict is over. the eu also presents the arrival of migrants as an 'opportunity' for our societies, in terms of socio-cultural openness and as a solution to the demographic crisis and the ageing of the european population. in addition, brussels wants to offer refugees a job within six months of their application, with language training, social assistance, assisted employment or interpreting at the workplace. finally, the report is polluted by gender theory, while at the same time the terrorist risks are ignored. it even supports the commission in condemning member states which have not put in place the necessary measures to welcome migrants. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: utopian project to offer refugees a job within 6 months without taking into account millions of unemployed europeans and amalgamation between refugees and migrants.
in writing. - i voted against the benifei report. it proposes nothing more or less than a general priority in access to housing, employment, vocational training, the easy recognition of diplomas or qualifications... for refugees, while maintaining a confusion between refugees and simple immigrants. i can understand that people who are forced to leave their country to seek refuge in another need special help to facilitate their stay, which is necessarily temporary, and not to live on the hook of the society that welcomes them. but in the context of mass unemployment, especially among young people, budgetary constraints and above all the massive arrival of hundreds of thousands of migrants in europe, this priority for the latest arrivals is more than objectionable, it is indecent. we do not have to collectively suffer the choices germany has made because it is afraid that its demography will eventually kill its growth and its economic supremacy. keep voting for this kind of report and you will have convinced even the most euro-beat of citizens that your policies are insane and that it is time to leave the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to encourage access to the labour market for refugees, who should not be confused with economic migrants! on the one hand, so that they can quickly integrate into work, and on the other hand so that they do not become an additional burden on our unemployment benefit systems. i have, however, spoken out against an additional transfer of 23% to 25% of the allocations from the cohesion funds to the european social fund. i think it is unacceptable to take funds from the budget for the development of our territories for the integration of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this all-encompassing text which alternately refers to refugees, migrants and asylum seekers. i am fully in favour of social inclusion and the integration of refugees into the labour market in accordance with national regulations. i also believe that a refugee who works is a lower cost to public finances and that the introduction of language courses in the host country and training or apprenticeship programmes can promote integration. on the other hand, i reject all the proposals that impede the possibility for a member state to strengthen the conditions and modalities of family reunification, the claim that the reintroduction of internal border controls is necessarily bad, the injunctions to review the regulation on the reception conditions of migrants when it was revised in 2013 and only needs to be well implemented by member states, as well as the recommendation to organize additional courses in the language of the country of origin for refugee children, which would hinder their integration and increase public expenditure if the courses were now taught in tigrinya or afar...
in writing. ‒ the whole report is based on the idea of gender (protecting refugees because they are more exposed to risks, more threatened, more difficult to find a job...) and anti-extremist (the report notes the rise of xenophobic rhetoric, ambient racism and anti-migrant behaviour). on the other hand, nothing is said about security risks: there is no mention of the risks that migrants pose to european citizens, nor of the terrorist threat. worse, the report supports the commission in condemning member states that have not or cannot put in place the arrangements for the reception of migrants. i therefore oppose this text and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the benifei report on the vocational integration and social inclusion of refugees. in the context of the current migration crisis, this report makes several proposals to deal more effectively with the political, economic and social challenges facing europe that we cannot ignore. however, while unemployment rates are high in france and europe, the issue of the integration of refugees into the labour market cannot be treated lightly. that is why my political group, the epp, has made sure that the terms 'refugees', 'asylum seekers' and 'economic migrants' are clearly differentiated. thus, this report does not concern economic migrants. i also voted to ensure that the proposals put forward by the rapporteur do not come at the expense of funds for the development of our regions and smes, or of the fight against unemployment, which affects a large part of our population, especially young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which clearly differentiates between the terms 'refugees', 'asylum seekers' and 'economic migrants'. this report does not concern economic migrants. moreover, the situation of asylum seekers is differentiated from that of refugees who have been granted refugee status and are therefore able to enter the labour market. this report therefore focuses on the challenges associated with the social inclusion of refugees in the labour market and aims to improve their integration. the text calls in particular for integration procedures to place greater emphasis on language learning.
in writing. ‒ promoting effective access for refugees to education and the labour market contributes to the success of the integration process, which must work in a reciprocal way between refugees and the host community, involving both rights and duties for each. i therefore voted this week in favour of the benifei report on the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees. this resolution will allow refugees and asylum seekers to work in their host countries, while also reducing the pressure on our public budgets, as refugees become taxpayers. the report also provides for the creation of a vocational language training programme and access to orientation courses on european values, culture and fundamental rights. we have therefore responded to the requests of our citizens by including in this resolution that assistance to refugees and asylum seekers should not be financed from resources for programmes targeting other disadvantaged groups, thanks to an increase in the european social fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees. too often, the word "refugee" is confused with "migrant", and the relationship itself is switched between the two without explanation. it would therefore be necessary to share things. the text presents the arrival of migrants in europe as an 'opportunity' for our societies, an opportunity for our citizens, who will benefit from this cultural and social opening. brussels wants to put in place all the provisions to offer them a job within 6 months of their application: language training, social assistance, jobs for migrants, interpreting at the workplace... while the eu is experiencing an economic crisis and is not even able to offer all this to european citizens, and especially to young europeans entering the labour market. we never talk about the risks that migrants pose to european citizens, or the terrorist threat. the report supports the commission in condemning member states which have not (or cannot) put in place the necessary arrangements for the reception of migrants.
in writing. - i voted against it. in the face of the migration crisis that is overwhelming europe, the report seeks to propose solutions to improve the situation. however, from the outset, it makes no distinction between migrants and refugees. a refugee is a person who is granted temporary subsidiary protection because his or her country is at war and is expected to return to it once peace has been restored. this lack of precision in the text shows the break with reality in the eu. the solutions proposed in the report therefore tend to establish migrants permanently, all of them, by facilitating their access to the labour market, to the detriment of european citizens. immigration is presented as a chance for europe to correct the demographic curve, develop cultural and social openness... the report is also punctuated by ideology on gender theory and overlooks the major issue of immigration, namely security.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing the largest influx of refugees since the second world war. the european response took the form, in september 2015, of a temporary mechanism for the distribution of 120 000 refugees in 23 member states. this report therefore feeds the debate on a subject which has not yet been sufficiently addressed at european level: social inclusion and the integration of refugees into the labour market within the european union. among the many proposals in the report, the text calls for a common approach by the member states to non-discrimination and access to education, the labour market, training and social protection. i strongly hope that these women, men and children who are currently fleeing conflict zones close to our continent will become an integral part of and contribute fully to the economic and social life of european countries. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on which our group proposed an alternative resolution. this report sheds light on the pontificals on refugees whose massive arrival would help to solve the european demographic ageing. it conflates refugees with economic migrants, even though the concept of "refugee" is essentially a temporary protection status. more importantly, the report calls on member states to adopt strong measures to promote the integration of refugees into the labour market within six months of their arrival on the territory of the member states. these measures include training, especially in language, social assistance and supported employment. we strongly condemn this report both in its ideological assumptions and in the measures imposed on the member states. this policy of forced immigration is all the more reprehensible in view of the high unemployment rates in some member states.
in writing. ‒ this report attempts to present the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the eu. it focuses in particular on aspects of access to the labour market. the document calls for the recognition and validation of "the existing qualifications of refugees" or the guarantee of "quick, easy and equal access to training". however, despite the generous emphasis in the text which 'calls on the member states to ensure full and rapid integration of refugees into the labour market and social inclusion', there are reasonable doubts as to whether this objective 'in accordance with the principle of equal treatment' will be achieved when one observes the current situation of posted workers. i am voting for this text, with no illusions about its application.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as a whole because it is full of gender theory and anti-patriotism. the report also supports the commission in condemning member states that have not put in place reception arrangements for migrants. finally, and this is the heart of the matter, the report aims at the sustainable integration of migrants, which goes against the will of the people and the capacity of the states to welcome them.
in writing. - there are many aspects to this report. too often, the words "refugee" and "migrant" are confused, and the text is switched between them without explanation. it would therefore be necessary to take action even before the migrants enter the territory, something europe does not seem to be in a hurry to do at the moment. secondly, he presents the arrival of migrants in europe as an 'opportunity' for our societies. on the other hand, nothing is said about security risks: there is no mention of the risks that migrants pose to european citizens and european identity, nor of the terrorist threat. the report also supports the commission in condemning member states which have failed to put in place the necessary arrangements for the reception of migrants. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report does not mention the security risks linked to migrants: for european citizens, and also in terms of the terrorist threat. worse, the report supports the commission in condemning member states that have not been able or willing to put in place the arrangements for the reception of migrants. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the vocational integration and social inclusion of refugees. some provisions are yet another air-pull to illegal immigration. this text implies that we can welcome them in europe with dignity, whereas the reality shows that we are not able to provide them with housing, employment or the means to assimilate properly.
in writing. ‒ the report itself underlines the very wide use of the term 'refugee'. too often, the word "refugee" is confused with "migrant", and the relationship is shifted from one to the other without explanation. the aim is to put in place all the necessary arrangements to offer them employment within six months of their application: language training, social assistance, assisted employment, interpreting at the workplace, etc. all this while the member states are experiencing terrible unemployment rates, especially among young people and the elderly, aggravated by the austerity policies imposed by brussels. nothing is said about the security risks, while the new year's attacks in cologne and the presence of several terrorists among the migrants have shown the scale of the problem. this report takes no account of the will or the most basic interests of the people of europe. i'm voting against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ the crisis facing eu countries in dealing with the influx of migrants is unprecedented. not all refugees and asylum seekers can be welcomed in our territories. however, it is the duty of member states to receive in dignified conditions refugees or asylum seekers who have complied with legal procedures. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to integrate these people into the labour market, including through the basic learning of the language of the host country, in order to enable them to integrate into our societies, to contribute to the economy and thus to reduce the pressure on public budgets dedicated to the temporary reception of migrants.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of my colleague brando benifei's report, which calls for the full inclusion of refugees in society and for their integration into the european labour market. a common approach to integration implies measures to combat discrimination and promote equal treatment, as well as access to education, training, housing, healthcare and social protection. this also means ensuring the recognition of qualifications of third-country nationals and guaranteeing family reunification. in this context, it is particularly important to take into account the needs of vulnerable groups, especially women and children. access to the labour market for refugees is the key to successful integration policies. allowing people in need of international protection to benefit from a blue card is a step forward, but it is not enough, as it is necessary to open up to all levels of competence. the current challenges of migration should not be seen as problems. on the contrary, the integration of refugees represents a real opportunity. it is a chance for the future, which will help to revive the economy and enrich our societies.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees. it is necessary to offer them the best conditions for integration and inclusion in order to enable them to support themselves, become economically independent and participate fully in the activities of our societies. in this regard, it is necessary, in particular, to revise the reception conditions directive in order to ensure that persons applying for international protection have access to the labour market as soon as possible, and at the latest six months after their application. it is regrettable that this six-month provision was not accepted. in addition, compulsory language courses for refugees should be introduced, both general and vocational. member states and european companies must show solidarity and a common commitment.
in writing. ‒ what we are experiencing now and call the 'migrant crisis' is gradually turning into a serious humanitarian crisis in france and the rest of europe. in this report, the term migrant is replaced by the term refugee. this means that the vast majority of meps consider all illegal immigrants to be refugees. this voluntary amalgamation actually illustrates the idea that the european authorities have of this crisis: migrants are an opportunity for our european societies, they will allow us to open ourselves to other cultures and replace our aging populations with young individuals. i think that it is essential to think first of our families and of a voluntary birth policy. finally, this report discusses the strategy to be put in place for the reception of these young migrants, or how to give them a job within six months while protecting them from extremes. there is no mention of national security or public disturbances, which our citizens have noted. i voted against this ideological report.
mr president, this report is a good thing: it proposes to introduce the standards of the international labour organisation into international trade agreements. that's very good! since we are at this point, i have a suggestion to make: since the european treaty prohibits social harmonization, why, for example, could we not say that all the member countries of the european union are obliged to sign the conventions of the international labour organization? this is of great importance for the future, especially for the tafta agreement we are preparing, because if we make the standards of the international labour organisation mandatory in our international treaties, then we will be obliged to ask the united states of america to ratify the main conventions of the international labour organisation. you may not know this, but the united states has not signed the convention on freedom of association and protection of the right to organize, the convention on the right to organize and collective bargaining, the convention on equal pay for men and women, the convention on discrimination, or the convention on the minimum age for admission to employment. they have not signed the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities or the convention on the rights of the child. i would now like to conclude by saying that, since we have set ourselves this objective, we must support the un initiative which envisages the establishment in the treaties of environmental and social standards to be imposed on multinational companies. we must help instead of deserting the table, instead of voting against at the un, and i would like to commend the courage of mrs maría fernanda espinosa, who is now in charge of these negotiations, and the president, and the courage of her action and that of the government of rafael correa.
in writing. ‒ this report suggests that the eu's trade strategy serves as a standard for promoting certain values. to this end, the agreements signed by the commission should therefore impose binding clauses on the union's trading partners, such as: strict respect for human rights, promotion of human rights (according to the unilateral conception of the union and regardless of the local cultural context), etc. although it is a report of goodwill, it tends to impose a single vision of the values to be promoted, which do not always correspond to our worldview or to what multilateral agreements should be. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become a major concern for citizens. in this report we underline our unwavering commitment to these standards and call on the european commission to set a high level of ambition in this area. it is essential that these standards are legally binding for businesses and governments, which must take into account the legitimate expectations of civil society.
in writing. ‒ this report, with good intentions, aims to impose the same concepts of human rights on the whole planet through free trade. i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but i am very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards. i therefore abstained from voting for or against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to send a strong signal to european businesses. a growing number of them are promoting their social responsibility strategies in response to a range of social, environmental and economic pressures. companies invest in their future and hope that their voluntary commitment will help to increase their profitability. the report encourages them to step up their efforts to help their employees, investors, consumers, public authorities and ngos.
in writing. ‒ this document is based on the belief that trade policies must make a positive contribution to respect for social and environmental standards and, more generally, for human rights. the eu's trade strategy should promote democratic values and interests in third countries, for example by suspending a trade agreement in the event of non-compliance with democratic values, or by establishing free trade in green goods in the name of sustainable development. the report, which is supposedly well-intentioned, is in fact aimed at imposing the same political and social conceptions on the whole planet through free trade. i agree with some of the ideas expressed in this report but remain cautious about the desire to impose free trade, human rights and social and environmental standards. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. the text does indeed have noble aims, such as the promotion of high-quality social and environmental standards, values which should be taken more seriously by the wto. however, i doubt that the liberalisation of markets proposed in this text, by the standardisation of standards in the service of free trade at all levels, is the solution to be envisaged to meet these objectives. the promotion of these values must not in any way be the result of a market imperialism which the european union would use as its armed arm. once again, the good intentions of the european parliamentarians are being misled by their globalist choices.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for international trade practices to incorporate social and environmental values and obligations concerning human rights, particularly those of children. health issues would also be taken into account. the report recommends that the wto rules should be inspired by this. while i agree with these good intentions, i am surprised that this report continues to advocate the principle of free trade, which is totally contrary to the aim pursued. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates that the eu's trade strategy should be a lever to promote democracy, human rights and sustainable development in third countries. in concrete terms, the document advocates the inclusion of binding social and environmental clauses in new trade agreements. these clauses would therefore require third country governments to commit themselves to providing access to water, health and education for their people. while we share the desire to restrict tariff concessions to countries which deliberately practice social, environmental and fiscal dumping, we are perplexed by the idea of imposing our conception of democracy in third countries in return for trade agreements. on the one hand, the european union has no legitimacy to interfere in the internal affairs of third countries, and on the other hand, it is the responsibility of international institutions to protect civilians in states where human rights are violated. that is why i abstained on this subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. the aim is to strengthen the coherence between development aid policies in third countries and the european union's trade policy. trade and foreign direct investment are driving these countries' prosperity. the union's trade strategy must be an instrument for promoting european values in the world. however, the current clauses have a limited impact on the respect of human rights obligations. i am in favour of strengthening the mechanism by integrating a 'corporate social responsibility' component into multilateral trade policies.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to analyse the implementation of social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility (csr) in trade negotiations. it presents the main progress made in this area and recalls the need to establish closer cooperation with the international labour organisation (ilo) and to monitor and apply the corporate social responsibility (csr) clauses on human rights and sustainable development in international agreements. considering that european trade policy must also respect the environmental, human and social interests of the european union, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported this report which reports on the implementation of the 2010 european parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in the context of european trade policy. it was particularly important in this report to stress the role of trade and foreign investment in promoting economic growth, good governance and the protection of human rights. indeed, trade remains an undeniable tool for promoting our values in the world.
in writing. ‒ the european union, the world's leading trading power, accounts for 16.5% of total world imports and exports. the link between trade and sustainable development requires us to put trade at the service of development. the rules governing trade, at both european and global level, must integrate social and environmental standards, corporate social and environmental responsibility, and human rights. improvements must therefore be made to the union's trade policy. at bilateral level, when negotiating trade agreements, the union should ensure that provisions on sustainable development are strengthened, ex ante and ex post impact assessments are systematised and corrective measures are applied in cases of non-respect of human rights by its partners. at the multilateral level, better synergy between the work of the wto (world trade organisation), the ilo (international labour organisation) and cop21 should be ensured. in general, the union's trade policy must encourage european companies to act in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, both in the countries where they are established and in those from which they source their supplies.
in writing. according to this text, wto trade policies must contribute positively, through legally binding clauses, to the promotion of human rights, social and environmental standards, the right to health, education and protection of children, access to water and sustainable development in third countries. the report provides for the possibility of legal action with sanctions against violators, and a trade agreement can be suspended if necessary. it also advocates that multinationals should be taxed where their economic activities take place. the report is well-intentioned and aims to impose a certain conception of human rights on the whole planet through free trade. i therefore preferred to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: agree with some of the views expressed in this report but very cautious about how to mix or even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ this report, with good intentions, aims to impose the same concepts of human rights on the whole planet through free trade. all my colleagues in the enl group and i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but we are very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights and social and environmental standards. that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague eleonora forenza on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. the report assesses the state of play of these standards in the union's trade policy and negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and freedoms, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and freedoms. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the recommendations of the parliament, which in november 2010 had voted in favour of two own-initiative reports on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements . the forenza report reflects the efforts made by the commission to include these references as much as possible and to implement the recommendations of the 2010 reports, as shown by the new standards included in the trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. the main thrust of this document is that trade policies must contribute positively to human rights, social and environmental standards. the report argues that the eu's trade strategy should be a tool for promoting democratic values and interests in third countries, a lever for promoting human rights, the right to health, child labour, sustainable development and environmental standards. this text, which is intended to serve good purposes, aims to impose the same concepts of human rights on the whole planet through free trade. we agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but we are very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the text is to introduce a social and environmental dimension into trade policies. values such as human rights, democracy and sustainable development should be upheld by the commission in wto (world trade organisation) agreements as well as in free trade treaties. although the defence of these values is positive, the rapporteur tends to impose a purely western vision of values, including the dogmatism of free trade, on all the countries of the world. i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this document concerns the wto trade negotiations. the european union would like to see social and environmental criteria introduced in the treaty, which could then be imposed on third countries. where appropriate, these criteria could be suspensive for any trade agreement with a third country which fails to comply with all or part of them.
in writing. ‒ the forenza report follows a series of recommendations made in 2010 by the european parliament. at the time, meps - with very concrete proposals to back it up - called on the european commission to adopt a trade policy that promotes the protection of workers rather than the race to dump. unfortunately, the european commission did not take these recommendations into account, which led to even more pressing requests six years later. in the forenza report, which i amended, we call on the european commission to systematically include binding chapters on sustainable development, which make the introduction of trade preferences conditional on the parties respecting their human rights commitments. this is an important clarification: the economic partnership agreements currently being negotiated with africa do not contain such chapters. we also urge european negotiators to demand ratification of the core conventions of the international labour organisation (ilo) by their trading partners: canada has not done so, despite the ceta agreement. i therefore voted in favour of this report - which lays the foundations for a new globalisation - but i hope that this parliament will be able to show consistency on these issues.
in writing. ‒ i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but i am very cautious about how to mix, or even impose, free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report, with good intentions, aims to impose the same concepts of human rights on the whole planet through free trade. we agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but we are very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards together. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ this report, with good intentions, aims to impose the same concepts of human rights on the whole planet through free trade. i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this report, but i am very cautious about how to mix and even impose free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. i support the provisions in this text which aim to reduce discrimination against women, in particular with regard to compliance with the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the forenza report on the implementation of social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. trade is also an instrument for promoting european values, and can generalise the effective and systematic inclusion and implementation of social and environmental standards. closer cooperation with the ilo in this area is essential; how does it work? for example, by monitoring and enforcing human rights clauses in the union's international agreements with an open and inclusive approach, by establishing a closer link between human rights clauses, by introducing regulations prohibiting the import into the union of goods produced by modern forms of slavery or forced labour in violation of fundamental human rights standards, or by improving the commission's model for assessing the impact on sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ this report, with good intentions, aims to impose the same concepts of human rights on the whole planet through free trade. i agree with some of the wishes expressed in this text, but i am very cautious about how to mix free trade, human rights, social and environmental standards. this method is really a form of faith without foundation. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which builds on work carried out in 2010 on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade and on corporate social responsibility in trade agreements. trade is not just a tool for economic development: it allows the european union to promote its values, which allows for upward harmonisation of mutually beneficial standards in trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which sets out detailed proposals to be implemented by the european commission to ensure that the union's trade policy is a relevant instrument for defending and promoting social and environmental standards, human rights and the principle of corporate social responsibility. trade policy takes place at different levels of action, both multilaterally within the world trade organisation and at regional and bilateral levels. this is why our assembly is drawing up recommendations for action and reform at each of these levels. furthermore, with regard to corporate social responsibility, we ask the european commission to update its corporate social responsibility strategy to ensure better application of the un guiding principles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, for which i was the epp's fictitious rapporteur, on the implementation of the recommendations made by parliament in 2010 on human rights, social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility in international trade. the text also recalls that trade contributes to the respect of human rights, in particular through the inclusion of human rights clauses in eu agreements and the inclusion of ambitious sustainable development chapters. the european union must continue its actions to improve the contribution of trade to respect for human rights and social and environmental standards. for example, the union should continue to improve the gsp+ system to ensure compliance with the conventions; it must also extend its initiatives such as the global solidarity pact to other actors (initiative set up in the wake of the rana plaza tragedy in bangladesh). finally, i wanted to recall a recommendation already made in 2010 which has not received a response: the commission must act to combat forced and child labour.
in writing. ‒ this report argues that trade policies must contribute positively to human rights and social and environmental standards, i.e. they must promote the right to health, the prohibition of child labour by no longer producing in countries that can practice this, sustainable development, or environmental standards. the wto should, according to the eu, apply these principles to the whole world, and that is precisely what is troubling about this report. all the points mentioned above must be defended, but not through the free trade of the world. this free trade and the creation of a global market cannot allow us to defend the weakest, wherever they may be. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ while the report initially stresses the absence of debate in the eu on its trade strategy, it suggests extending trade relations (based on customs-related agreements) to other standards, including the application of human rights. it proposes to introduce uniform international standards, sees the establishment of an international arbitration tribunal as an opportunity to protect international investors, which is not certain. it also called for public procurement to be opened up to the principle of reciprocity. in other words, it opens a door for foreign investors to (protected) markets to which they do not have access. finally, it opposes any strengthening of protectionism and, under the guise of free trade, insists on the need to abolish the last of its standards. given the risks this report poses to our economies, i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ while we welcome the european commission's change of tone to finally base trade on eu values, we call on the commission to translate these commitments into action! trade is not automatically virtuous as the commission claims! this is why in this report we highlight a number of blind spots in its thinking such as the need for reindustrialisation in europe. we also demand the protection of sensitive agricultural sectors and the exclusion of public services from the scope of the negotiations. we oppose the granting of market economy status to china. in addition, transparency must be drastically increased and the link between trade, development and the raising of social, environmental and labour standards must be automatic. finally, we call for caution in the multiplication of trade agreements: the commission must take into account the cumulative impact of the quotas offered in the various negotiations, especially in the agricultural sector, which must not be sacrificed.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects to this text, such as the fight against illegal trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. but he calls for the fight against protectionism, more free trade, free trade in services, convergence of international standards and an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. i therefore voted against this report, as well as the replacement report by the greens/efa group, which is in favour of more multilateralism. it opposed the eu's new policy to 'force' developing countries to cooperate on migration control and readmission procedures and against the gue/ngl group report because its vision of a more democratic wto regulating globalisation was not acceptable, as was the inclusion of human rights, women's rights in trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recalls that trade is not an end in itself but a means to ensure prosperity and equality, to promote trade prospects, sustainable economic development, social progress and understanding between cultures, to generate jobs and to improve living conditions without burdening public finances.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which calls for a more vigorous fight against all forms of protectionism and insists on the more general introduction of the sacred and holy free trade, extending it in particular to the services sector. such a policy of forced liberalization, which has already shown its negative effects on our industry, would only exacerbate the eu's economic difficulties if it were extended to the services sector, which remains one of our last assets.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report by the inta committee on a new innovative trade and investment strategy, which is a ram designed to break down the doors of all forms of protectionism in favour of global standards and of course the king of the market. the text is thus a plea for a 'global economy', which has already shown its dire consequences, except for the powerful multinationals. one of the most aberrant proposals in the report is the creation of an international arbitration tribunal to "protect international investment", that is, to give power to big business at the expense of sovereign states and their citizens. finally, the alternative report by the green group is no better, because, while it has the merit of denouncing the policy of austerity and unfair international competition, it wants to go further than the original text on the international arbitration tribunal, which would only put sovereignty in the hands of the big groups once and for all.
in writing. ‒ the text highlights some positive aspects, such as the fight against illicit trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses such as the protection of aocs, the inclusion of a number of social and environmental values in the wto, and the refusal of china's market economy status. on the contrary, it advocates free trade, the end of all protectionism and the convergence of international standards. i believe that this will mean the bankruptcy of the developed countries, including france, and i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that trade agreements cannot be limited to a reduction in customs duties but must aim to bring international standards closer together. paradoxically, the text advocates fighting all forms of protectionism while proposing to include social and environmental clauses in future trade agreements and to make tariff concessions conditional on respect for democracy and human rights. although this report advocates the fight against the illicit trade in wildlife products and opposes the market economy status granted to china, i opposed this text which makes the removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers its priority. finally, i would like to stress that the rapporteur welcomes the creation of an arbitration tribunal which will bring states and their peoples to their knees before multinationals. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new innovative future strategy for trade and investment. foreign trade is an essential factor in the development of the european economy. in 2015, the european commission proposed a new eu strategy on trade and investment. the trade policy of the 21st century must respond to the concerns of the population. it must be more transparent, more committed and more accountable. the coherence of the union's trade objectives with the other facets of its foreign policy is a priority in the face of the challenges facing the union, such as the migration challenge. it is about strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights and social and environmental standards worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this own-initiative report is to indicate the european parliament's priorities on the european trade strategy. international trade is a major issue for the european union, which is the world's leading trading power. this is also a crucial issue for the european agri-food sector (€12 billion and 6% growth in 2015), so i wanted the committee on agriculture to address this issue via an opinion for the committee on international trade. i believe that european agriculture must develop new markets on the international scene in order to support and develop its production, but it is also necessary to protect certain productions, the existence of which would be seriously threatened if customs duties on the products of its competitors were abolished. i believe that agriculture should not be used as a bargaining chip in favour of other sectors such as services or industry. finally, the protection of our know-how and the wealth of our territories is a priority: trade agreements must not be concluded without the recognition of european geographical indications (gis) by our partners. as these principles are contained in the final report, i supported the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the new innovative future strategy for trade and investment as it takes account of developments in international trade policy and economic realities to propose a medium and long-term trade strategy. this new trade and investment strategy must also integrate the fight against corruption and tax evasion in order to be fully effective and transparent. finally, the spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit must be the sine qua non of the european union's trade relations with its partners.
in writing. ‒ for the european union to remain a major international trading player, it is of course essential to develop an innovative future strategy for trade and investment, which is why i supported this report. however, i also want to support the statements made by my colleague esther herranz garcia: as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i too want to reiterate that agriculture is too often an adjustment variable in these trade negotiations. as i have said on other occasions, this must not be the case anymore! while trade agreements with third countries are necessary and bring many significant benefits, let us not forget to protect sensitive sectors such as agriculture, ensuring that it is not sacrificed to the benefit of other sectors! i want the citizens of europe, and in particular the farmers, to know that we understand their concerns and that we are acting to protect their interests!
in writing. ‒ this text provides critical support for the commission's new trade strategy for the european union (which aims to value global trade and increase bilateral agreements) while highlighting the shortcomings. i voted for this text partly because a number of s&d amendments were able to bend the line. the resolution stresses the need for transparency in trade negotiations. it states that trade is not an end in itself but a means of strengthening social, environmental and working conditions. we also stressed the importance of restoring europe's industrial base and protecting it from unfair practices. in this case, we warn against the market economy status for china. we call for the unblocking of the reform of trade defence instruments, reciprocity in access to public procurement, and the taking into account of the particularities of certain sectors, notably agriculture, where our interests are mainly defensive.
in writing. ‒ trade and investment must support growth and employment. hence the importance of an appropriate european strategy. the union's trade policy must defend the interests of european producers and consumers. it must be conducted in a transparent manner, in particular when negotiating trade agreements. and to involve civil society and national parliaments much more closely in its objectives, so that the defence of our interests is really taken into account. in this spirit, europe must rapidly strengthen its trade defence instruments and adopt a single, unambiguous position vis-à-vis china by refusing to grant it market economy status until beijing has carried out the necessary reforms.
in writing. according to the report, trade agreements must go beyond the reduction of customs duties, aiming at convergence of international standards and fighting all forms of protectionism. the text aims to include human rights, social and environmental standards in trade policy. there are some positive aspects to this text, such as the fight against the illicit trade in wildlife products and the rejection of china's market economy status. nevertheless, it aims at more free trade in services, a convergence of international standards and welcomes a future international arbitration tribunal to protect investments. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the green report, which calls for the fight against protectionism, more free trade, free trade in services, convergence of international standards and an arbitration tribunal to protect investments.
in writing. ‒ i do not see how the report is proposing a new strategy for trade and investment. it is true that it wants to involve citizens in the conclusion of a new trade agreement by informing them. and for good reason: the ongoing negotiations on the transatlantic treaty and the forthcoming ratification of the ceta agreement with canada are provoking hostility in the most diverse circles throughout europe. i would also point out that if the concerns of the citizens were really taken into account, this parliament would be standing up against the ttip negotiations and would be preparing to reject ceta. this is not the case, and for good reason: the 'new strategy' is to further liberalise world trade and capital flows, an acceleration of globalisation that only makes the predatory multinationals and international finance happy. a little bit of this and that, such as trade defence instruments which can hardly be more paltry than those we have, access to public procurement or to the services market of other countries, which will enrich companies without really creating jobs in europe, does not change the essence of the problem.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that there has been no debate in the eu on free trade policies. trade agreements must go beyond the reduction of customs duties towards a convergence of international standards. the text has some positive aspects such as the fight against the illegal trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. but it supports the fight against protectionism and encourages more free trade, particularly in the services sector. it also encourages convergence of international standards and an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. for all these reasons, i opposed the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tiziana beghin on a new trade and investment strategy. the fight against social dumping in public procurement will be a major driving force for job creation and growth. the report proposes a strategy that takes into account the constantly changing international trading landscape, the need to ensure transparency and the imperative to promote universally shared values through trade. however, as a member of the committee on culture and education, i regret that this report is not more committed to the development of the digital economy, which is a pillar of tomorrow's international trade. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to develop a much more innovative and forward-looking future strategy for trade and investment, to take account of the constantly changing international trading landscape.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'a new innovative future strategy for trade and investment'. there are some positive aspects to this text, such as the fight against the illicit trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. but he advocates fighting protectionism, more free trade, free trade in services, convergence of international standards and an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. the report welcomes a future international arbitration tribunal to 'protect' international investments. he called for reciprocal opening of public procurement.
in writing. ‒ the report is a non-exhaustive list of ideas to guide the future eu trade strategy. some positive arguments are included, such as the fight against illegal trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. however, the general orientation of the text runs counter to our european and national interests, calling for the fight against protectionism, the increase of free trade, the creation of a convergence of international standards... two alternative reports were tabled by the greens and the gue/lng and they range from more multilateralism to ideology. i voted against all three reports.
in writing. ‒ the beghin report assesses the european commission's 'trade 4 all' communication from october. the communication sets out the union's new trade strategy along two lines: firstly, to base trade on the values of transparency, democracy and respect for human rights; and secondly, to promote the conclusion of bilateral agreements that create jobs and ensure fair distribution of profits. this report struck a balance by supporting the commission's communication while pointing out its limits. the report calls for greater transparency in the negotiations and for the maintenance of a broad industrial base in europe. it also stressed the need to remain cautious in the multiplication of trade agreements. the cumulative impact of the quotas offered in the various negotiations could prove to be detrimental. this last point directly raises the problem facing the ors in the light of the proliferation of free trade agreements with sugar-producing countries. i am voting in favour of this report, which proposes significant improvements to the future trade and investment strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against both reports. the report has some positive points: the fight against illicit trade, the refusal to grant china market economy status in particular. nevertheless, the report takes a liberal economic line by advocating greater deregulation of trade and convergence of social standards. it also proposes the creation of an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. we also rejected the green counter-report. the text, however, calls for the review of austerity policies and condemns unfair competition in commercial matters. finally, despite its decidedly anti-liberal content, we rejected the text of the unitary left, in particular because of its emphasis on human rights and the promotion of gender equality in commercial matters.
in writing. ‒ the beghin report aimed to critically assess the european commission's recent 'trade 4 all' communication, which set out the union's trade strategy for the coming years. while i welcomed the commission's move towards value-based trade at the time, i denounced its ideological blindness to the automatic virtuousness of free trade for workers. i also criticised the commission's use of the agricultural and industrial sectors as bargaining chips to promote the services sector. the report submitted for a vote in plenary, which i helped to amend, has achieved an interesting balance. first of all, we are calling for a drastic increase in the transparency of trade negotiations. we also believe that trade should not be an end in itself but rather a means of raising social, environmental and labour standards worldwide. finally, we clearly recall the need to preserve a broad industrial base in europe by strengthening trade defence instruments and rejecting the granting of market economy status to china. i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ the report dares to criticize eu trade policy, assuring that 'trade is not an end in itself but a means to prosperity and equality'. or announcing that there can be no "trade agreements without safeguards". the report also opposes the granting of market economy status to china until the eu has "more effective trade defence instruments". but it provides a limited framework for such criticism, which cannot "question the contribution of free trade to economic growth". the text therefore simply calls for 'future trade agreements and negotiations to take into account and respect the views expressed by parliament in its resolutions on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) '. all this for this ? i vote against this useless text.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects to this text, such as the fight against illegal trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. but he calls for the fight against protectionism, more free trade in services, a convergence of international standards, an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. i therefore voted against this report, as well as the replacement report by the greens/efa group which is in favour of more multilateralism. it opposes the eu's new policy to 'force' developing countries to cooperate on migration control and readmission procedures and against the gue/ngl group report, as its view of the wto is not acceptable.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects to this text, such as the fight against illegal trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. but it also calls for a fight against what is akin to protectionism, it imposes even more free trade, including in the services sector, as well as a convergence of international standards and an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects to this text, such as the fight against illegal trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. but he calls for the fight against protectionism, more free trade, free trade in services, convergence of international standards and an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. this is therefore unacceptable and i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new innovative future strategy on trade and investment. it is essential for the european economy, which is now the world's largest, to have a new strategy in order to maintain its leadership, which, according to forecasts, is on the verge of collapse. in 2050, the 28 eu member states will account for only 23.7% of global gdp, compared to 50% in 2013.
in writing. ‒ there are some positive aspects to this text, such as the fight against illegal trade in wildlife products, the strengthening of trade defenses and the rejection of china's market economy status. but he calls for the fight against protectionism, more free trade, in particular free trade in services, and convergence of international standards, an arbitration tribunal to protect investments. these points are unacceptable to me and i shall therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which will allow the development of a new innovative trade and investment strategy. to have an effective trade policy, the european union must take account of the new economic realities and globalisation, while promoting its values. above all, it is important to understand that by speaking with one voice, member states are all the stronger on the international trade scene. despite the presence, often highly publicized, of many critics of trade at global level, it must be understood that trade and investment are the only drivers of growth and therefore of job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out various proposals to build a new forward-looking and innovative trade and investment strategy. we stress the importance of a more transparent and democratic trade policy and the use of monitoring, evaluation and follow-up of existing agreements. we call for a tailor-made selection of future free trade agreements to be negotiated and recall the need for effective trade defence instruments. we also call for greater coherence between the union's trade and industrial policies in order to guarantee a level playing field for european industry and to give it access to new markets. finally, trade policy must offer concrete benefits to consumers, for example by limiting unjustified geo-blocking practices or by strengthening passenger rights. we also recall that no trade agreement should lead to a reduction in the acquis in european consumer protection standards, including in the digital revolution, and i welcome this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the union's trade strategy for the coming years. the text thus gives an overview of the union's trade policy and sets out the objectives to be achieved. it is a reminder that trade must be conducted in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit. it is also essential that trade negotiations exclude public services and audiovisual services, allow for the protection and recognition of geographical indications, and finally provide an opportunity to access public procurement contracts from our partners. certain specific features, such as the special features of the outermost regions, must also be taken into account in trade policy. in addition, trade negotiations and eu policy must also ensure the sensitivity of certain products, in particular agricultural products, with the establishment of appropriate specific measures. the report also calls on the commission to continue its efforts to improve transparency and reiterates its call for the modernisation of trade defence instruments, without weakening them, in order to make them more effective, faster and more accessible to smes.
in writing. ‒ this text has two sides. the first is rather positive, with the rapporteur defending the aocs and the sensitivity of the agricultural sector by strengthening trade defenses, the fight against the illicit trade in wildlife products, or the rejection of china's market economy status. the other aspect is the fight against protectionism, the promotion of greater free trade in services and the convergence of international standards in this field. these contradictions in the text lead me to vote against. how can we claim to defend the aocs, true symbols of french and european know-how, while giving the same national market to the large stateless multinationals?
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the 'trade for all' strategy proposed in october 2015 by the european commission. the title is a challenge in itself. the stated aim of this strategy is unsurprisingly to strengthen the eu's trade policy by multiplying free trade agreements and making them more 'effective' ... this strategy thus supports the famous ttip negotiations and the new investment protection system 'ics' (formerly called 'isds'), i.e. private law mechanisms which private companies will be able to use to attack member states directly. the commission is also using this new strategy to integrate return and readmission agreements into free trade agreements with third countries in order to combat 'irregular' migration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text on the fight against human beings in the union's external relations. the eu uses the fight against trafficking in human beings to strengthen its international power. we could not, however, oppose this text in relation to the subject under discussion, which obviously deserves a real fight.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines that trafficking in human beings is a highly lucrative activity and that the proceeds of this criminal activity are largely reinjected into the global economy and financial system. the report also highlights the clear link between migrant smuggling and human trafficking. i condemn in the strongest terms all these forms of exploitation. it is essential to include the fight against this ancient phenomenon, but also the rights of victims, including the right to reparation, in eu policies towards third countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because the eu is using the fight against human trafficking to demand more power from the international community. the theme is that the opposition is politically sensitive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which strongly recalls that human trafficking is a modern form of slavery, a highly lucrative international crime and one of the worst forms of human rights violation.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the eu's participation in international programmes to combat trafficking in human beings. if i am totally committed to this cause, i can only see that the eu is using a really crucial subject to gain more power in terms of foreign policy. moreover, one has only to note the various failures of other initiatives of this kind once they have been undertaken by the eu to understand how illegitimate this claim of brussels is. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the european union's external relations. i am, of course, disgusted by the commodification of human beings and i am surprised that it is denounced in this report but that members are not concerned about other forms of commodification such as gpa. i also welcome the rapporteur's lucidity on this type of modern slavery. however, i condemn the habit of the european institutions of using sensitive, even emotional, subjects to arrogate themselves more power and in particular to substitute themselves for the member states in the field of foreign affairs; the member states are perfectly capable of establishing bilateral partnerships, particularly in the field of police and judicial cooperation, in order to combat the modern scourge of trafficking in human beings, in particular to apprehend those responsible for trafficking and the networks involved in this area. the rapporteur also seems to want to use this tragedy to legitimize more and more legal ways of immigration. i denounce this exploitation of human tragedies by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this text advocates the eu's participation in international programmes against trafficking in human beings, which is commendable. i feel that these proposals, despite their good intentions, are in fact aimed at strengthening the eu's international powers. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the european union's participation in international programmes against trafficking in human beings. while we are of course in favour of doing everything possible to eradicate the criminal organisations that are involved in these barbaric practices, we consider that the european union has no legitimacy and credibility to deal with this problem. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the european union's external relations. human trafficking is a form of modern slavery. it is one of the worst forms of human rights violation. it is one of the most lucrative criminal activities in the world. in many countries, the lack of legislation does not allow effective action to be taken to combat trafficking. europe is also suffering from this scourge. for example, more than 10,000 unaccompanied refugee and migrant children have disappeared in recent years. the european union must strengthen cooperation, coordination and the exchange of information with third countries.
in writing. ‒ this owninitiative report focuses on trafficking in human beings and recognises it as a new form of modern slavery, a crime against humanity. however, the report stresses the need to distinguish between trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants, considering that these concepts imply different legal responses and different obligations on the part of the member states. the report places particular emphasis on regional and international cooperation against trafficking in human beings, calling for greater coordination and systematic exchange of information. i have supported this report because i believe that the european union's external policy must provide responses to human trafficking in conjunction with our partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the union's external relations. this report focuses on regional and international cooperation against trafficking in human beings. this seems to me to be essential in view of the increasingly cross-border nature of this crime. the european union must strengthen the exchange of information and cooperation with third countries to dismantle criminal networks involved in human trafficking. in addition, victims, the vast majority of whom are women and children, must be able to identify themselves and have access to justice and information on their rights.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is one of the most unacceptable forms of organised crime. this crime, which is being carried out by now globalised networks, is contrary to the fundamental values of human rights. according to the latest report on slavery in the world, 35.8 million people are trapped in modern-day slavery conditions. the anti-trait legislation is not yet sufficiently implemented worldwide. to combat this scourge, the european union must strengthen police and judicial cooperation between member states and with third countries - in particular the countries of origin and transit of victims - in the areas of prevention and prosecution. it must also strengthen its partners' efforts to combat this crime and continue to promote human rights in its external policies - development policies, trade policies, investment policies, etc.
in writing. ‒ this text deals with the eu's participation in international programmes against trafficking in human beings. it seems that the european union is using the fight against trafficking in human beings to increase its prerogatives at international level. however, in view of the seriousness of the matter, i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the eu uses the fight against human trafficking to demand more powers.
in writing. ‒ this report refers to the eu's participation in international programmes against trafficking in human beings. given the political sensitivity of this issue, the european union is using it as a pretext to increase its powers with regard to state actors, but also internationally. i therefore preferred to abstain in order to prevent the union from further extending its prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague barbara lochbihler on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations. the report points out that human trafficking is a modern form of slavery that is becoming increasingly common. the text identifies several forms of exploitation and calls for the granting of several rights to victims. it encourages greater regional and international cooperation against trafficking through information sharing, the fight against corruption in the public sector and accountability of the private sector. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recognises human trafficking as a modern form of slavery, a highly lucrative international crime and one of the worst forms of human rights violation. the text also makes a key distinction between trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants, stating that each concept requires different legal and practical responses. if parliament had assessed the implementation of european legislation last may, it was time to take this phenomenon more into account in the union's external relations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the european union's external relations. this is a very serious problem, but we must ask ourselves what the european union's participation in international programmes against trafficking in human beings brings in addition to the member states. this text contains valid elements. i am thinking in particular of the traceability of products to avoid forced labour. however, the eu is using the fight against human trafficking to demand more powers at international level.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote is part of the european union's commitment to international programmes. turns out she's involved in a project to combat human trafficking. however, through this sensitive subject which must be defended, the eu is asking for more international powers and i am against this. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this text concerns the european union's participation in international programmes to combat trafficking in human beings. even if it is a vehicle for european interference in the internal affairs of other member states, we cannot stand in the way of a text on such a serious subject.
in writing. ‒ with wars, human trafficking increases (illegal domestic workers, organ trafficking, ransom payments to migrants). the report makes a number of proposals to improve the legal arsenal and the protection of victims. it's a lucrative market that's bringing in $150 billion for criminals. the fight against money laundering and the tracking of criminal networks are therefore crucial. but sometimes big companies also profit from this black market exploitation. the report highlights the ilo conventions that are not being respected and the importance of taking an active part in the work of the un towards the development of a binding treaty for multinationals. the right has obviously put its foot down and is calling for a stronger fortress europe so that it can "sort out" the migrants who are of interest for the european labour market and to drop the passages on aid to refugees. i also regret the timidity of the text on the question of prostitution, the so-called 'forced sexual exploitation', and above all on the 'profound causes' of trafficking which have been ignored: the responsibility for military interventions and a european trade policy which plunder, force into exile and sell entire populations for human trafficking. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because the eu is using the fight against human trafficking to demand more power on the international stage.
in writing. ‒ the eu is using the fight against trafficking in human beings to demand more powers in international relations. i therefore abstain from voting on this text, although its purpose is still commendable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, one of the provisions of which stresses the obligation for the union to have a binding and mandatory legislative framework for the resettlement of refugees. i have always voted against the irresponsible policy of quotas for migrants pursued by the european commission, which is a ruse to encourage illegal immigration and which has, among other things, resulted in the emergence of slums such as the calais jungle.
in writing. ‒ this is the eu's participation in international programmes against trafficking in human beings. i am of course very sensitive to the issue of combating trafficking in human beings, but this issue is a pretext for the eu to ask for more powers at international level. i refuse to recognize its competence in this area and therefore prefer to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recalls the importance of combating trafficking in human beings. sadly, this scourge of modern-day slavery is widespread. the european union and the member states must do more to combat corruption, in particular by strengthening the training of european officials to deal effectively with this situation. above all, it is the victims of trafficking who must be assisted and accompanied.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is a heinous crime that reduces millions of people around the world to the status of commodities. to combat this intolerable phenomenon, the report advocates a comprehensive approach, based on human rights, with a triple objective: prevention, protection of victims and strengthening the criminal prosecution of criminals. the fight against trafficking also requires a coordinated response by the union and the member states, in partnership with third countries. this requires better cooperation between police and judicial authorities and appropriate training for professionals who are in contact with victims. victims who must be given full information on their rights, effective access to justice and whose status must be recognised throughout the union. victims need full support, including legal, medical and psychological support, to help them reintegrate into society. these may include persons in need of international protection, especially women and children. in the face of this worrying situation, it is essential to improve the procedures for identifying victims of trafficking along the migration route.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which rejects human trafficking and calls for an end to it. human trafficking remains intolerable as long as it denies human beings their rights and freedoms, reduces them to mere commodities and is nothing more than modern slavery. victims must have their rights respected, they must be accompanied and protected. criminals must be prosecuted and brought to justice. there can be no respite in the fight against this barbarity. to combat poverty, coherence between the union's internal and external policies must be ensured. in particular, police and judicial cooperation between member states and with third countries should be strengthened. in addition, gaps in legislation need to be filled and existing legislation improved to cope with new forms of trafficking and new channels, such as the internet. member states should ratify all relevant legal obligations and international agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the union's external relations. human trafficking is a serious crime and one of the worst forms of human rights violations. the text recalls that trafficking in human beings is a transnational crime of a global nature; the european union must therefore take account of this problem not only in its internal policy but also in its relations with third countries. human trafficking generates, according to the ilo, about 150 billion dollars every year. therefore, as this report calls for, greater attention must be paid to the fight against money laundering. the union must strengthen its cooperation with third countries in order to better combat corruption and to better locate and confiscate the proceeds of these criminal activities. i supported this report which calls for enhanced cooperation in the judicial and police fields, as well as in the systematic exchange of information and the management of victims of trafficking in need of international protection.
in writing. ‒ it is very important to bear in mind that human trafficking still exists today and that we must fight it with all our strength. however, in this text, the eu is using the fight against human trafficking to ask for more powers from the international community. the report proposes that the union should be involved in international programmes against trafficking in human beings, which is not its role. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is one of the worst forms of human rights violations because it reduces human beings to a commodity. it takes many forms of exploitation: prostitution, forced labour, slavery, child soldiers, organ trafficking. women and girls are the main victims, particularly in sexual matters (79% of victims). in contrast, men are the majority of victims of forced labour (83%). human trafficking is a growing lucrative scourge, with illicit profits estimated at $150 billion. the report points to the lack or limitations of existing legislation and calls in particular for the strengthening of national legislation and international cooperation in this field. while the overall proposals in this report are correct, particularly as regards the application of ilo standards, some elements are not acceptable. the report welcomes in particular the 'eunavformed' operation, which aims to return vessels to their country of origin, in particular libya. i therefore regret the report's support for repressive immigration policies and have chosen to abstain.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank in particular my co-rapporteur, mr jan olbrycht. i believe that we have worked in accordance with our convictions, but above all in the interests of the european citizens, and my thanks, of course, also go to all the fictitious rapporteurs who have enriched the text, and to the committee on budgets, particularly its chairman. in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, parliament had removed the obligation to carry out a budgetary review and, if necessary, a revision before the end of 2016. it is to prepare parliament's position and to give the commission some guidance that the committee on budgets has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on this revision. in a europe that is hesitating, that is in doubt and is waiting for a new direction to be proposed, this text is intended as a revealing document, in which parliament makes a clear and lucid diagnosis of the budgetary situation. and this report is a wake-up call: we must respond urgently and use this review to ask the questions that will make it possible to draw up a budget that is up to the challenge. youth unemployment, migration crises, refugee crisis, cop 21, agricultural crises, underinvestment, internal security: unfortunately, in the last two years, new challenges and emergencies have rendered the multiannual financial framework voted in 2013 obsolete. this report gives a clear picture of the situation. what is it? the multiannual financial framework no longer meets the priorities, its limits have been reached, all the instruments of flexibility have been called upon to deal with the various crises and, without revision, we will continue to strip peter to dress paul. cuts have been made in key programmes - this is the case in horizon 2020, this is the case in the connecting europe facility - and a freeze of commitments to combat youth unemployment has been decided, while the ceilings, especially those for heading 3, have exploded. i think i can say that this report rejects the idea of a compromise between trust funds and facilities. it refuses to allow the proliferation of financial instruments to become the rule at the expense of the waning democratic control. and then, of course, there are the payments: the payment crisis is coming at the end of the period. if we do not make changes, we must stop acting like ostriches and run away from our responsibilities in this situation. the credibility of our institutions is at stake and, more importantly, the situation of all those who are waiting for these funds, whether they are local authorities, businesses or erasmus students on the move, who would be waiting for the european union to pay what they are owed. this hidden deficit of the union is contrary to the treaty and this report points out that the adjustment of the payment ceilings would prevent us from falling into the errors we experienced in the last years of the previous financial framework. the committee on budgets voted by a large majority a long list of recommendations. we had asked for it when the juncker plan was first introduced. the budget cuts of eur 2,2 billion in horizon 2020 and eur 2,8 billion in the connecting europe facility should be fully offset by the increase in the commitment and payment ceilings under this heading. same causes the same effects. how can we accept that there are no more commitment appropriations until 2020 for youth employment initiatives, when we are suffering from the scourge of youth unemployment? the commission cannot continue to oppose us to its late evaluation, firstly because no one can take advantage of his own foulness, but above all because the evaluation of this programme will not eliminate the need for means of action. it is therefore a matter of priority to review the ceilings for heading 1b, at least to the level of what we have done for the two years of launch, namely eur 3 billion per year. the same applies to internal security, to the promises made at cop 21, to the refugee crisis and to the agricultural crisis. my dear colleagues, how much excitement, how many cries of alarm will it take for us to take responsibility? the report will be used by parliament tomorrow to decide whether or not it takes the seriousness of the situation into account, and we are very clear: we want the revision to be presented quickly in order to conduct the negotiations on the 2017 budget in parallel.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i also welcome the work of the co-rapporteurs, but we cannot ignore brexit and this moment in history, because now is the time to change everything, now is the time to dare to break with the past, now is the time to send a strong and clear message to the european council to put an end once and for all to austerity policies, to put an end to 'monitoring and punishing', and also to put an end to this real budget which is a reflection of the false lack of ambition of the european council. i do not believe that the small additional resources requested will be sufficient to deal with the new crises that are going to confront us and to meet the demands of the citizens and peoples of europe.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteurs and the committee on budgets and i support their proposal. i do not, however, commend those of our colleagues who are absent and who give a very bad image of the european parliament. it's just the budget, excuse the smallness! the agreement reached in 2013 on the current financial framework included a requirement from parliament that the revenue side of the budget be reopened at the mid-term review: this is the reform of own resources. we are working on this, commissioner, in the high level group chaired by mario monti. brexit makes this reform necessary and urgent. by definition, the british rebate is going to disappear and this is an opportunity to make all the other rebates disappear as well, since their only justification was british privilege. the result has been an incredibly complex and shockingly unfair system: six of the richest countries contribute less to the european budget than the poorest countries in the union. we have the opportunity to make the financing of the european budget simple, transparent and fair. we would be unforgivable if we didn't seize it now.
madam president, i thank and congratulate both of our rapporteurs. our budget, locked into a seven-year framework, condemns the european union to show its impotence in the face of crises. it is pathetic, ladies and gentlemen, to see the proliferation of fiscal satellites: guarantee funds, trust funds and other financial stability mechanisms. madam president, this is a veritable budget galaxy, which is not legible, which is not understandable to the european citizens. these are instruments to ask the member states for the resources they lack. without flexibility, our budget is not understandable. moreover, it is not accessible because of the obstacles created by the accumulation of bureaucratic procedures and administrative complexity. but at bottom, the budget is only the expression of a vision, an ambition and a project, if any. in 2013, the current framework was concluded under the threat of a uk veto. david cameron had insisted that appropriations be cut for the first time, including those relating to migration. parliament's agreement had been withdrawn on the promise of a mid-term review. we are there, and after brexit, we have no more excuses not to move forward. we call on the council to respond to the realism of parliament in order to give the union the means to speak to europeans, europeans eager to understand what european added value is and how europe is able to effectively take on what states can no longer achieve alone.
madam president, although we must have an annual budget, the existence of a multiannual financial framework, the duration of which can be debated, is necessary to mark the ambition and objectives of the european union in the medium term. it is a planning tool, but it must remain flexible enough to respond to changes, shocks or crises, such as the recent migration crisis. it must be a document shared by the commission, the council and parliament, and a reminder to all of their commitments. as we know, the budgetary capacity of the european union is ridiculous in the face of the challenges of the present and the future. the glass is sometimes half full, sometimes half empty, but always not full enough. this report, which was adopted by a large majority, has the merit of recalling the importance of a real budget for the european union with the introduction of own resources, which would make it possible to return to the fundamentals of the financing of the european union, and which would avoid the budget being held hostage by the states and the council. i would like to stress the need to finance priority actions such as basic research and digital, rail and electricity interconnection, and of course to preserve structural policies such as the cohesion funds and the common agricultural policy, as well as all the policies which speak to the european people, namely youth mobility policies, vocational training and investment for employment. for all this, it is public money that europe needs and not financial arrangements that escape the democratic control of parliament.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their support and the vice-president of the commission for listening. if i take the four points which i think have resonated with colleagues, i would say, firstly, madam vice-president, that there is a large majority here in favour of a revision, not a technical adjustment. the time has come because the multiannual financial framework is obsolete and because the historical situation requires it. secondly, as you have observed, madam vice-president, the new financial instruments - i hope this is not what you call 'modernization' - are a bit worrying to parliament, not only for reasons of democratic control - although i thank you for the proposal to invite parliament to sit or at least to put its nose in these funds - but also because we do not want the budget to be transformed into a guarantee fund, and we will be very cautious on this point. thirdly, we have a new situation, namely the departure of the united kingdom. i asked president juncker this morning that the commission should quickly assess the budgetary implications of the uk's departure, its cheque and the rebates, because there is also the issue of the rebates which we have discussed in the report. fourth point: the causes. as many colleagues have said, the causes of the problem lie in the structure of budgetary resources. some 20 years ago we had a budget made up of 75% own resources and 25% contributions from the member states. today, more than 80% of the budget comes from contributions from the member states and less than 20% from own resources. there is a huge task ahead, madam commissioner, which we really want to start in parallel with these discussions, because we are only at the beginning of a great story between us, that of the thorough revision of the budget of the multiannual financial framework and of the own resources which will finally enable us, at the end of each year, not to be beggars to the council.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i will be very brief. i share the opinion of our colleague on certain points, but since, if i am not mistaken, he is a portuguese national, i would just like to ask him a question out of curiosity. the portuguese government is now proposing, if i am not mistaken, to exempt from income tax all pensioners, even very well-off pensioners, of other nationalities who come to portugal for a period of at least ten years. i would like to know what mr viegas thinks of this measure.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this report by the taxe 2 committee is a reminder that the question of tax justice is at the heart of any social project. every state of law has a duty to combat the tax-optimising abuses of multinationals. in a world of inequality, mass unemployment and growing precariousness, it is no longer possible to allow a bleeding of budgetary revenues to escape the attention of the states. the tax loss in france, which is avoided by large companies, amounts to more than 15 billion euros per year, for almost two decades. it's bad for our public finances. this deficit in fiscal resources must be compensated for in order to balance the annual budget by your policy of austerity and structural reforms, which is being repeated by the european commission, and the result of which all europeans are seeing in greece. we are far from your europe of prosperity and full employment, which your propaganda boasted about in 1992 during the maastricht referendum. the other taxpayers, the small domestic businesses and households, suffer the consequences, losing their competitiveness and purchasing power. i would remind you that since 2014, the national front has voted for all european texts to combat banking secrecy, fraud, tax evasion and abusive tax optimization. in the french parliament, meps voted in favour of the law on the transparency of political life following the cahuzac affair. that is why we shall vote in favour of this report on european international cooperation. the patriots are in favour of tax legislation at european level, but on the condition that the states agree and that our fiscal sovereignty is maintained. luxembourg, the netherlands and other countries, under the impetus of their complicit leaders, such as mr juncker, have set up and developed lax regimes for unscrupulous multinationals. for the patriots, this unfair tax dumping constitutes an economic crime against the people. if mr juncker had any sense of honour, he would resign from his current post. the patriotic ethic says yes to fiscal competitiveness, but no to fiscal dumping.
madam president, as chairman of the taxe 2 committee, i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs, thank our administrative team and welcome the work done by the european commission, the commissioner and parliament on business taxation. it took the luxleaks scandal, but in 18 months we have made more progress on this issue than in the previous 18 years, in particular the commissioner gave the list on the exchange of information between tax administrations, including rulings, on the transparency of multinational accounts, on the adoption of oecd rules based on a simple principle each multinational company must pay its taxes in each country in proportion to its activities in the country in question and on the protection of whistleblowers the conviction a few days ago in luxembourg must be the last. the next major step will be the harmonization at 27 of the definition of taxable profit, the ccctb. these results could not have been achieved without the tenacity of the european commission and the constant pressure of parliament, which thus reflected the expectations of the citizens. in an area where we have no legal competence, i am proud that the european parliament has been able to emerge as an indispensable partner for our national parliaments, for the us congress and for the oecd, among others. we must ensure that the new political status of the european parliament in this vital area is maintained.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the very good cooperation we have had. we have succeeded in making our demand for transparency heard. of course, the results are mixed in terms of access to documents, but this should encourage us to continue, with the next committee of inquiry, the arms race with the member states that have played so little, especially since it must be said, the luxleaks scandal is not yet behind us. the trial and the valuable information provided by the second whistleblower, raphaël halet, revealed the dubious links between the big four and the luxembourg tax authorities. we don't know everything yet. the article in the newspaper le quotidien last wednesday, for example, told us that for several years pricewaterhousecoopers had been able to use the luxembourg administration's letterhead while taking over the archiving work of the mountain of tax rulings, and this was done without any contract, thus reminding us that the wrong people had been sent to the luxembourg courts. what does that tell you, commissioner? do you intend to ask the luxembourg government for further clarification after this new information?
madam president, i think the first people we should collectively thank are those ordinary citizens who have taken the risk, one day, of revealing to the general public practices that are totally outrageous. they are now paying the price, while the real offenders - the audit firms we were talking about and the states, because there are states, even in europe, which behave like thugs - enjoy total impunity. from this point of view, the presentation by the two rapporteurs was important because in this text we have a very comprehensive presentation of these aggressive tax optimisation practices which are disfiguring europe and the image of europe that we want to present to our fellow citizens today. it is true that the report takes up the recommendations of the taxe 1 report on the consolidated corporate tax base, on country-by-country public reporting - in this respect, commissioner moscovici has helped us from the beginning - and on the reform of the code of conduct, but it goes further. so, of course, whistleblowers are frustrated because the text is insufficient, but, nevertheless, particularly on the diversion of tax incentives in favour of research, the text is clear, as is the extension of the debate to developing countries. i regret that there is a confrontation with the european right, which does not agree that you are advocating fiscal and social competition, and that we are unable to say today, even though we have a common monetary and budgetary policy, that we obviously need a minimum effective rate of corporation tax, because otherwise there is no equality, because otherwise there is no progress in europe. it's the fight tomorrow. this is the fight that some progressives, at any rate, will want to fight in the years to come.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commission's recognition of the need to coordinate the authorities performing coast guard functions at european level. since 2011, i have been asking for coordination between the various authorities that manage our coasts. we have identified 316 civil and military authorities responsible for this management of the european coastlines and maritime borders. these authorities are facing unprecedented challenges, such as the migration crisis. these challenges call for preventive action and rapid, effective and european responses to crises at sea. through the cooperation of the three european agencies, we are promoting joint actions and the exchange of information. the european border and coast guard corps respects the sovereignty of the member states this is important and strengthens the integrated management of the external borders of the european union. through the re-design of frontex, we are responding to the expectations of our citizens who, now more than ever, are demanding an efficient, readable, supportive and secure europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to start by welcoming two particular things. the first is the enormous, intensive and very intensive work done by our colleague, mr artis pabriks, on this report, and the second is the fact that this work has been completed in record time, on this matter which, as you have said tonight, was a key matter, one of the few matters about which our fellow citizens have really heard and understand the very concrete meaning. the evidence here is that when there is a political will, when the european union is willing to react and act, to adapt to even the most formidable situations, such as the challenge that we are facing and which risks endangering the whole of the european construction, it knows how to be a force of proposition and to provide appropriate responses to the situation as it appears. i would like to make a few quick points in the short time i have, in particular four essential ones. my first point is that we have here an undeniable step forward which aims to remedy the main shortcoming which frontex has suffered so far, namely the lack of budgetary resources, but also and above all of human resources, since frontex will now have a solidarity reserve between member states of 1 500 people, who can be mobilised very quickly, and that this agency will also have the capacity to acquire its own equipment and use it very quickly. my second point concerns the clear mention of frontex's competence in search and rescue at sea. we fought hard with mr pabriks and the fictitious rapporteurs to get this reference and we got it. let us remember that we have a fundamental obligation to save human lives. almost 10,000 people have died in the mediterranean since 2014, not to mention thousands of shipwrecked people, including 304 children who have died since september 2015. thirdly, the numerous guarantees of fundamental rights and the clear reversal of responsibility by ...
mr president, what is the purpose of the new frontex agency? it is certainly not to satisfy the fantasies of those who want a europe without frontiers. but perhaps the reform that has been undertaken will enable frontex to participate in a more european and more efficient management of our external borders. the more european the agency may be, the more resources it will have to deal with problems more quickly and collectively. the member states on the front line at the external borders should be given more effective assistance, which is essential, particularly in view of the current situation in greece and italy. it may be more effective, for this new european body to take over openly search and rescue operations at sea. i have heard the concerns expressed by several ngos and i want to bet that the agency will carry out its tasks in full respect of fundamental rights, and that it will have, as a backdrop, the complaint mechanism that the european parliament has been calling for for so long. but then we must remain vigilant to what may remain a spontaneous reflex of the member states to re-establish controls at their borders, even if this is called a measure of last resort.
madam president, faced with the flood of migration europe is suffering from, the union refuses to acknowledge the failure of schengen. once again, she is running ahead by strengthening european integration, while her federalist dream is crumbling with brexit today and the fpö's victory in the austrian presidential election tomorrow. the union wants to replace frontex with a european border guard agency. officially, this new agency will help states to monitor their external borders on a voluntary basis. in fact, the council and the commission will put pressure on them, starting with greece, to force them to let the agency act on their behalf. this is yet another unacceptable attack on national sovereignty. the union is even daring to impose the presence of liaison officers in all member states. but these are agency representatives who are responsible for spying on them and forcing them to apply the union's migration policy. the states will thus be put under genuine tutelage.
in writing. the european border and coast guard will ensure an integrated european management of external borders, which should help to preserve the integrity of the schengen area. the s&d group's work has led to a major improvement in the original proposal. search and rescue missions, the referral of persons seeking international protection to easo, and the development of tools to better inform migrants arriving in the union will be part of the new agency's mandate. the commission shall not be able to adopt return decisions on its own initiative or to coordinate return operations from one third country to another. moreover, the transparency of its activities should be enhanced, as it will be directly accountable to the european parliament and the council. the commission will therefore have to report regularly to meps, including on its cooperation with third countries. finally, i welcome the introduction of a complaint mechanism, which could lead to disciplinary action against agency staff allegedly guilty of fundamental rights violations. even if full legal responsibility would have been preferable, this is a first step towards better protecting the rights of migrants.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the many recent cases of data theft and cyber attacks against large groups, large sectors, but also government agencies, particularly in france, call for quick and concrete responses and strong action. beyond the damage to data sensitivity, the damage caused by cyberattacks worldwide is estimated by the commission at eur 500 billion. cybersecurity is a key issue for european governments and people. it is therefore equally important to organise voluntary cooperation between nations based on the exchange of information and good practice. i would like to stress the voluntary nature of this cooperation. cooperation between european neighbours is essential and natural. the enf group supports the strengthening of national capacities for the security and defence of network and information systems. however, i regret that in chapter 3 of the well-titled report the intention to establish a binding supranational system of coordinated operational declarations and responses to cybersecurity incidents is not withdrawn. the text also proposes regular evaluations of national policies in this area. this goes far beyond the reasonable framework of cooperation, which is no longer voluntary but regulatory and binding. again, the text is dogmatic. the revision of this text seems necessary, but with the sole objective of strengthening the security and defence capabilities of the networks and information systems of the european nations. what is a matter of national security cannot be regulated by brussels. we must not hide behind sound objectives any political programme which would threaten the effectiveness of the text if it were adopted.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, we have long called for these synergies between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. but we must nevertheless ensure that the principles of cohesion are safeguarded and that the least developed regions, including the outermost regions, are not deprived of the benefits of these horizon 2020 funds. we need to ask ourselves why so many small project promoters and less developed regions have such difficulty in accessing horizon 2020. perhaps we think of programmes as too large, perhaps there are also problems of complexity. i believe that the best synergy must be achieved by simplification, and we await the return of the working party set up by the european commission.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you also to the commission for being here. ladies and gentlemen, the vote on my report on coast guard cooperation is quite simply a victory. since 2011, i have been asking for coastguard cooperation to make the european union more effective in responding to crises at sea. crises at sea can be many: marine pollution, illegal fishing, the influx of refugees in dangerous boats. in all these cases, when i first proposed european coastguard cooperation, my aim was not only to prevent disasters but also to enable the european union to act in a coordinated and effective manner. we've identified 316 civilian and military authorities from the coast guard. this fragmentation has so far prevented joint action and the exchange of information. the three european agencies - the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard - now have complementary mandates, which obviously increase the eu's response capabilities at sea tenfold. the agencies will coordinate the 316 authorities responsible for coast guard functions. we will improve the capacity of the european union to act, and i believe that is what the european citizens want today. the agencies are now pooling their response capacity and information systems and working in a coordinated way to rescue at sea and prevent illegal immigration. their mandates are extended; support all national or local authorities with coast guard functions through the sharing of human and operational resources. through this decision, we are creating real synergies between agencies to provide more efficient services, also in terms of costs. in 2015 and 2016, the european union experienced strong pressure at its external borders. over the last two years it has become clear that the schengen area without internal borders is only viable if the external borders are effectively protected and guaranteed. this is only possible with joint, united and responsible action by all member states. through the cooperation of the three agencies to support member states in protecting our borders, we are building a more united europe because it is more responsive, more efficient and more secure. i would also like to point out that we are only extending the mandate of the european fisheries control agency. the agency's primary task is, of course, to monitor fisheries in europe in order to ensure that a common fisheries policy is put in place to combat illegal fishing effectively. however, the agency may also be called upon in the event of other crises at sea. europe is gaining speed, efficiency and coordination in border control.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, you keep talking about democracy, except when there are voices against your dogmas. what a fine example! we shall be voting tomorrow on the kramer report, whereas originally it was the arnautu report, in which i clearly demonstrated that the creation of a new frontex agency was just another smoke screen and, obviously, this bothered you. the fact that border guards are required to wear european uniforms under the sole supervision of the european institutions, not to deter illegal immigration but, on the contrary, to facilitate it, is obviously not the solution, but it is a further step towards national sovereignty. you are blinded by your falsely generous ideology and new, uprooted, damned people will join the millions of unemployed europeans or serve as cheap labour. you stubbornly refuse to listen to the voice of the european people, as you still do with the british people's vote. my report is completely wiped. you think that's democracy. i think this is a repeated rejection of the will of the people and, of course, we will vote against it.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since my name has not been mentioned, i shall conclude on the substance. i sincerely believe that this text is the foundation of a more secure europe, but also of a europe of greater solidarity. by securing its maritime space, the union is giving itself the means to achieve its ambitions. at a time when populism is gaining ground throughout our territory, europe is demonstrating, through this text, its capacity to take concrete action in the service of our fellow citizens. this report is not liberticidal, as i have heard. on the contrary, it contributes to making our union safer, with respect for individuals and member states. we must be realistic and pragmatic, not dogmatic and archaic. i have no doubt that tomorrow a large majority of this house will vote on this report, the relevance of which has unfortunately escaped some people.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the anti-fraud office, olaf, was set up in the wake of the scandal that brought down the brussels commission 17 years ago. it was supposed to moralise the european union by fighting fraud and corruption. this is a complete and utter failure! olaf has repeatedly infringed the rights of the defence and the presumption of innocence. the diplomatic immunity of its director was recently lifted at the request of the belgian judiciary. a monitoring committee, composed of five independent persons, is indeed responsible for monitoring olaf, but it has not been able to do so for two reasons: firstly because it is dependent on olaf, which manages its budget, and secondly because the director of olaf refuses to give it access to its data, which is scandalous. i therefore welcome the fact that a text is being tabled today which proposes to improve the independence of the monitoring committee, but i think we should go further. olaf has lost all credibility by increasing persecution and abuse of power. it would therefore have to be abolished, if not replaced by a new body, to start over on a sound basis.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, you have just said that you are pleased, as i am, that mr fico has the courage to protest against the migrant quotas. however, are you not, like me, a little disappointed by what we have just heard, because mr fico has just given us a most astonishing speech in which he criticises populists, nationalists, xenophobes and so on. in short, do you not have the impression, as i do, that he is now pledging his total allegiance to the european union and to the most determined eurocrats?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr prime minister, a week before you take up your duties as president of the council of the european union, the british people have made the choice to break out of this trap. the nation that gave birth to george orwell has thus given a fine lesson in democracy to the eurocrats who, because of their arrogance, did not even imagine that they could be told no. those of you who have lived through the velvet revolution, i have no doubt that you will be keen to help make this exit the best it can be. i have referred to orwell because in many ways the european union is becoming more and more like the dictatorship described in 1984. in the new language of the brussels technocrats, we use the words 'decarbonisation' to describe the killing of our industries, 'good governance' to describe the control of our states, or 'migrants' to describe the illegal immigrants who are pouring into our old continent in droves. judging by your statements in recent months, you seem to have become well aware that the migration policy imposed by the european commission and mrs merkel is leading us straight into the wall. you went so far as to call this calamitous handling of the migration crisis ritual suicide. you and your hungarian, polish and czech counterparts in the visegrad group seem determined to reject this insane policy of distributing migrants. if your people suffered behind the berlin wall, they understood the vital need to maintain real borders. however, yesterday three of the four members of your party voted in this very house in favour of a resolution which welcomes the mobility of refugees and requires member states to put asylum seekers in competition with our fellow citizens in the labour market. but yesterday was also the day when we learned the date of the hungarian referendum on the immigration quota policy. it will be held on 2 october, two weeks before the commemorations of the 60th anniversary of the uprising in budapest against the communist dictatorship and the day before the new presidential elections in austria. we can be sure that the hungarians and austrians will once again make the bureaucrats in brussels tremble, because the people of europe are tired of this superstructure which is contrary to their vital interests, their economic interests, their security and their identity. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". yes, i will answer very quickly. i believe that today, unfortunately, the european union is becoming more and more like a prison, because the decisions taken by the european commission and, unfortunately, very often endorsed by this parliament are increasingly contrary to the vital and fundamental interests of the peoples. every time the peoples of europe have to express themselves in a referendum, they have to counterpose their very clear hostility to the european union. we saw it a few days ago with brexit, we saw it a few weeks ago with the referendum on ukraine in the netherlands, we saw it in 2005 with the referendums in france and the netherlands. it is now very clear that the european technocrats - the majority here consisting of the epp, the s&d and the centrists - must finally question themselves and listen to the people. i believe that is what the majority of european nations are expecting today.
mr president, yes, slovakia is taking over the presidency at a particularly difficult time, a historic moment, as you said. even when the future of the european union is at stake, and after brexit, you will have to put the spirit of community above national selfishness once again. because it is not enough to be european in strasbourg or brussels, but it is also important to be profoundly european in bratislava and in the other european capitals. to overcome nationalism and populism, which lead to the worst extremes, europe must be given a new soul. the peoples of europe do not only expect us to complete the single market as quickly as possible. they ask us to build a europe that protects its borders, a europe that defends its values and its shared cultural identity. as such, your priority is to demonstrate the concrete effects of european projects - that's very good - and to put citizens back at the centre, emphasising the social dimension. but there can be no redistribution without growth, and there can be no growth without competitive industry. we therefore need an ambitious industrial policy. you spoke of the union for energy and digital; i will also speak about the space sector, which holds extraordinary opportunities in terms of applications and services and which must allow europe to benefit from independent access to the absolutely strategic space. finally, if you want to make europe a reality, we must also talk about health policy, because it is a priority for our citizens. i hope very much that your presidency will be able to move quickly the negotiations on my report on veterinary medicines. good luck with the slovak presidency. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". you know, my political group really wants us to provide the best responses to this migration crisis. we cannot help but think, with a profoundly humanitarian spirit, of the plight of refugees, but we must also respond to the concerns and anxieties of our fellow citizens in the face of this migration crisis. it is therefore important to try to find the best solutions as close to the ground as possible. i believe that in your speech, mr prime minister, you mentioned this.
mr president, mr prime minister, your country has held the rotating presidency of the council of the european union for six months since 1 july, at a crucial moment in the union's existence. six months pass very quickly, but they can be particularly dense, and your task, particularly difficult: the management of the post-brexit cataclysm; tsunami of migration of refugees and pseudo-refugees; the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the terrorist threat, which is not the worst of all and which will make the dramatic events in paris and brussels look to history as mere patrol incidents. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. here's the schedule. paradoxically, the alternative you face is simple: to put on the slippers of your predecessors for a colourless, odourless and tasteless presidency, incapable of meeting the challenges, perhaps deadly i do not want to believe, mr fico, that you will be the emil hácha of the european union, the pale figure of an increasingly unbearable collaboration between peoples or on the contrary to reinvent, in a loyal and honest way, a new cooperation between european countries and peoples, to rebalance the relations between east and west, because europe must embody peace, not war, russia, to remain at the mercy of public opinion, to choose the path of courage and action, to inscribe your prolongation of the glory of the szeklerov presidency, to carry forward the acts of resistance of the united kingdom, especially those of france, gabardine pét, and the united kingdom. mr. prime minister, please be safe!
mr president, mr prime minister, your country took over the presidency of the european union on 1 july. on behalf of the french delegation to the epp, i would like to stress the need for a europe that protects against instability. in particular, it will be up to slovakia to take part in the negotiations for the united kingdom's effective withdrawal from the union and to anticipate the replacement of the british presidency, initially planned for the second half of 2017. i am therefore pleased to see the priorities announced by the slovak government, which will focus on economic and monetary union, competitiveness, immigration, the protection of external borders, the digital single market and the energy union. but beware, the slovak presidency must not have its work programme hijacked by events which some have set up in the midst of a crisis. a europe that acts and protects is a europe that provides solutions to fundamental questions, often forgotten in favour of political and electoral issues. the slovak government has also expressed its concern about the situation in the country and the situation in the eu.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how long will you keep repeating the same empty phrases, proposing the same harmful measures? will you never be able to hear and understand what the people are saying to you with increasing force - what they will say to you, moreover, again, on 2 october next in hungary during the referendum on the appalling migrant quotas that you are imposing on the people? i think the situation is clear. the only commission work programme that deserves to be discussed is the one preparing the concerted dissolution of the european union, starting with the schengen agreements and the euro, for the benefit of the recovered national sovereignty and healthy cooperation between nations. the shock in these very places following the british vote and the rage against democracy and the people that followed it show that you have not planned, let alone prepared, the concrete arrangements for a member state to leave the european union. your ideology, of course, prevents you from doing so, whereas this should be your priority today, because the british vote - be assured - will not be an exception, but the first in a long series. the people of europe have awakened and nothing will stop them. the complete inability of the european institutions to reform and listen in order to become useful is condemning them to disappear. the peoples want - whether you like it or not - to regain their sovereignty, their freedom, the power to freely determine their destiny. so, mr commissioner, let mr juncker know that, rather than talking to the leaders of other planets, rather than being harsh with a europe that is largely rejected by the majority of the peoples and that you want to impose today simply by intimidation, terror and force, he should realistically prepare for the deconstruction of europe and the reconstruction of the nation states. he could also - and that would be a great thing - apologise and resign in view of the failure of his commission. it's no longer possible to continue to deny the reality. there is no point in looking for legal tricks to prevent brexit. yes, the uk is leaving the european union, and it's happy. others will follow, and if such a prospect breaks your heart, if you cannot anticipate it, it is better for all of you, for all of us, to relinquish from yourselves such a heavy burden.
mr president, europe is facing an unprecedented crisis which threatens to undermine its future and to call into question its vital construction. many of us do not accept this. that is why i would like all the european institutions - the commission, the council, our parliament - to be up to date with the present situation. there is one thing to avoid at all costs, and that is to continue to act as if nothing had happened, business as usual. it's a major risk that we all face. the programme we are discussing today should be the opposite of a catalogue, and it should be summed up in a single word: rebuild, re-establish, reform, rethink our european union, our european community, and give it back a horizon within which the peoples can meet. it's the only way to be at the rendezvous of history.
mr president, mr vice-president, we are all shocked by brexit and we all want a boost from the european union, but not a verbal boost, which constantly reaffirms our ambition for europe and which basically tries to explain that europeans have still not understood how good the european union is for them, and that we should simply change our communication or do as usual so that they finally feel all the benefits of the european union. no, the commission's work programme must be changed and reoriented, and thus reorient this european union. for many european citizens, the european union has become a small liberal globalisation and there are two options: either europe becomes a real vehicle for public regulation of globalisation and we regain legitimacy, or all nationalisms will win. when you want tafta and ceta, you continue to transfer european democratic sovereignty to the corporations. that's not the way to do it. you talk about energy transition and the european commission, like the council, refuses to make progress on efficiency or renewables, which would create jobs throughout our territory. we are facing a crisis of solidarity. the investment needed to combat the crisis is solidarity, not always austerity, law enforcement and national public budgets. you want to remake the european union? stop drying us with words and produce deeds and parliament will be a partner.
mr president, i will expand on your last sentence, which was excellent. the last few months have seen an unprecedented phenomenon, a real competition between member states to not apply eu law. two days ago the french prime minister announced on television that he would not apply the forthcoming directive on the posting of workers if its content did not suit him. yesterday, before we even heard the commission's position on the subject, the french minister for foreign trade and his german counterpart announced that ceta would be subject to ratification by their national parliaments, because their public opinion would not understand that such an important subject should be confiscated by brussels - the horrible brussels! a few weeks ago, a referendum in the netherlands compromised the partnership agreement with ukraine. the hungarian government now intends to rely on another referendum to disapply eu law. the treaties are thus openly violated and the representativeness of our parliament is contested, even by some of the founding countries, including my own. the state of the union debate in september must be the occasion for a strong reaction from the commission and parliament to put an end to this flight of our governments from their european responsibilities.
mr president, mr vice-president, you concluded your speech by saying that, in essence, what was in store had to be pursued. the majority of the british people voted for brexit. my group supports the action of your commission on the basis of an informal contract, the idea of which was to implement an investment plan. it seems to me that the time has come to renew this contract and to redefine its terms in the wake of this brexit, because you have committed yourself to reforming the directive on the posting of workers which is doing so much damage in my country and in many other countries of the european union. so yes, it is your responsibility to go ahead and make sure that those who opposed this revision of the posting of workers directive are wrong and that the law prevails so that this revision takes place. it is on the basis of these elements that we will be able to renew the trust agreement between us.
madam president, i just wanted to make it clear that, in view of mrs zimmer's oral amendment, the s&d group will vote in favour of the oral amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on the framework agreement between the european union and azerbaijan. it sets out the union's policy towards azerbaijan, which is part of the union's policy in the caucasus in the framework of the eastern partnership. i opposed it because i believe that the union should not add to the tension in an already very sensitive area or weaken the external policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because the eu does not need to add to the tension in an already very sensitive area. it must not weaken the external policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation by my colleague, mrs nicolaï, because it represents a step forward and opens up new opportunities for azerbaijani students and researchers to take part in various eu programmes. the european parliament remains committed and continues to monitor the situation closely, awaiting further clear improvements in rights and democracy. the text calls on civil society in azerbaijan to increase its efforts to establish democracy in its country.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the eu's project for azerbaijan. i am opposed to the policy of the eurocrats in the caucasus: the eu does not need to interfere in the affairs of this already very sensitive region. moreover, by doing so, it bypasses the policy of the member states and prevents them from intervening, as far as their history and specificities would have allowed, in an appropriate and beneficial way for the populations concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the framework agreement between the european union and azerbaijan. firstly, because i do not support the policy pursued by the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership, which is a type of agreement with a long-term enlargement perspective and which also removes the member states' competences in the field of foreign affairs and bilateral cooperation. in particular, i am not convinced of the merits of the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements, which entered into force on 1 september 2014. secondly, because this report is once again intended to be a moral statement, with the european union pretending to be the world's policeman, whether in legal, economic, social or human rights matters. i am not convinced that such a challenge to azerbaijan will help to bring stability to a country still torn by a tense conflict with armenia. in this respect, france has a real mediating role to play, which once again proves that sovereign nations are best placed to conduct diplomatic operations.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the eastern partnership. the committee believes that while these guidelines are generous, they are potentially conflict-producing in an already highly sensitive area of the caucasus. moreover, the eu is positioning itself here as a real actor in foreign policy, whereas i believe that this should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to consult the european parliament on the council's decision to establish a framework agreement with azerbaijan. the aim is to allow for increased participation of azerbaijan in union programmes in order to promote reform, modernisation and transition in azerbaijan. considering this report as an opportunity to strengthen the european union's ties with azerbaijan and to support the development and progressive opening-up of this partner, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report for the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and azerbaijan on the participation of azerbaijan in union programmes. azerbaijan's participation in european programmes will strengthen and develop our vital relations with this strategic partner within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the european union must cooperate closely with azerbaijan on energy issues and the fight against terrorism and in many other areas.
in writing. ‒ this text presents the eu's policy towards azerbaijan, which is part of the eu's policy in the caucasus in the framework of the eastern partnership. the eu cannot risk being the cause of renewed tension in an already very sensitive area. it must not weaken the external policies of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this text relates to the eu policy statement for azerbaijan, which is part of the eu policy in the caucasus within the framework of the eastern partnership. it goes without saying that the european union is once again trying to take over the foreign policy of the member states by its interference. in doing so, it further weakens an already highly sensitive area and region by adding a certain amount of tension. from this point of view, it was only logical that i should oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague norica nicolai on the framework agreement between the european union and azerbaijan. the draft recommendation concerns the participation of the republic of azerbaijan in the union's neighbourhood policy programmes. this will lead to increased participation of azerbaijan in certain union programmes and strengthen partnerships in the environment, culture, education and technology. while the vote on the framework agreement with azerbaijan was blocked for more than a year, the union's silent diplomacy allowed the release of several human rights activists, allowing the text to be adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow for a gradual opening up of azerbaijan to certain eu programmes, and will thus offer the opportunity to strengthen links in the fields of culture, education, environment and technology. the specific terms and conditions applicable to the participation of azerbaijan in each specific programme will then be determined in an agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on azerbaijan because the european union does not have to play an international role and even less so to be a destabilising element in the caucasus.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the participation of azerbaijan in the european union programmes. this is the eu's policy statement for azerbaijan, which is part of the eu's policy in the caucasus under the eastern partnership. the eu does not need to add to the tension in an already very sensitive area. it must not weaken the external policies of the member states. it does not have to conclude visa facilitation agreements in place of the member states.
in writing. - i voted against it. the eu is carrying out projects in the caucasus under the eastern partnership, which led to an agreement with azerbaijan. this is a sensitive area, subject to high stress. i therefore believe that the eu should not weaken the relations between the member states and that country and interfere in their foreign policy.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this text constitutes an outline of the european union's policy towards azerbaijan. we are firmly opposed to any european interference in a geographical area already subject to high tensions.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for azerbaijan to be allowed to participate in eu programmes. we must vote for this authorization a priori, without knowing which programmes will be open to it. will it be erasmus mundus or military research programmes? the mystery remains. above all, the report is part of the eu's longer-term desire to negotiate a free trade agreement to destabilise the caucasus' historical and economic ties with russia. all this in the context of the continuing deterioration of human rights in azerbaijan, which is making a mockery of our "recommendations" and "progress reports". i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because the eu does not need to add to the tension in an already very sensitive area. it must not weaken the external policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the eu does not need to increase tensions in an already highly sensitive area and does not need to weaken the external policies of the member states. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament's approval for the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and azerbaijan on the technical and financial rules for the participation of that country in certain eu programmes, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, which aims to foster relations between the eu and non-member countries on issues such as security, stability and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i do not recognise the european union as having any legitimacy and therefore no competence in international affairs. moreover, its interference is usually destabilizing and harmful. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the framework agreement between the european union and azerbaijan which lays down the general principles guiding the participation of this country in european union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives parliament's approval to the conclusion by the council of a protocol to the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement. the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of azerbaijan in union programmes. it includes standard terms and defines the financial and technical rules allowing azerbaijan to participate in certain union programmes. the european parliament has voted to approve the draft resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i supported this report because the framework agreement and the protocol currently being adopted between the eu and azerbaijan should be an opportunity to promote sectoral cooperation in different areas.
in writing. ‒ this report outlines the eu's actions and policy towards azerbaijan. the country is part of the caucasus region where the european union is active in the framework of its eastern partnership. the eu should not add to the political tension in this politically sensitive area of the caucasus and should not weaken the external policies of the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report assumes that the budget surplus of eur 1.35 billion recorded in 2015 should be carried over to the appropriations available for 2016. instead of proposing to member states a reduction in their contribution the following year, the report proposes to channel these sums into new commitments: funding for migration policies (to optimise the reception of migrants) or even investment in new european trust funds (the emergency fund for africa or the madad fund for the syrian crisis). the commission is also proposing that any future budget surpluses should be automatically transferred to the union's policies. given its costly fundamentals, no research on economy is proposed, such as reducing member states' contributions; i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which notes that the adoption of draft amending budget no 2/2016 will result in a reduction of the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget of eur 1 349 million in 2016. we again urge the member states to use the opportunity of this reimbursement to honour their commitments in connection with the refugee crisis and to make a contribution corresponding to that of the union to the two eu trust funds.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on member states to use this opportunity to implement their 'commitments', including the irrational promises made in the wake of the migrant crisis, by making an exceptional contribution to the eu's special funds. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis by eur 82 million and eur 69 million respectively. worse still, the report recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the state's contributions to the eu budget. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as usual, we are recording the surplus of the financial year (from fines and interest, among other things). having voted for this amending budget, i nevertheless express the hope that in future the surplus will be allocated to the settlement of european arrears rather than being returned to the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns draft amending budget no 2/2016 to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, i.e. eur 1.35 billion. this surplus allows member states to reduce their contributions to the eu by €1.35 billion in 2016. however, the report uses this easing of the burden on national finances to call on member states to increase their contribution to, inter alia, the madad fund for the syrian crisis; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i objected.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on the draft amending budget on the surplus for the financial year 2015. this surplus, amounting to eur 1.35 billion, should enable member states to reduce their contributions to the eu budget. yet the report takes the opportunity to urge european nations to use this money to fulfill the irresponsible commitments of the european union in the area of reception and integration of migrants. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the development of the region. not content with squandering the budget of european nations for unfair policies, the european institutions are now asking that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the european union, when they could allow a reduction in the contribution of the states to the budget of the european union, which would also allow them to reinvest this money for the benefit of their country.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns draft amending budget no 2/2016 (dab) to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, i.e. eur 1.35 billion. this surplus was mainly due to a positive revenue execution of almost eur 1 billion, a shortfall in expenditure of eur 187 million and a currency exchange difference of eur 182 million. this surplus allows member states to reduce their contributions to the eu by €1.35 billion in 2016. i am very surprised that this report calls on member states to take advantage of this unexpected windfall to increase their contribution to the special eu funds set up in response to the migrant crisis. worse still, the report recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the state's contributions to the eu budget. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, i.e. eur 1.35 billion. this surplus resulted from a positive revenue execution of eur 1 billion, a shortfall in expenditure of eur 187 million and a corresponding exchange rate difference of eur 182 million. the report calls on the member states to use this surplus, which is their right, to make an exceptional contribution to the special funds for managing the migration crisis. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and to the madad fund for the management of the syrian crisis. finally, member states are invited to systematically transfer future surpluses to the european union instead of using them to reduce national contributions to the common budget. the european union seizes every opportunity to increase its budget and the funds allocated to the reception of illegal migrants. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this budgetary report aims at allocating the surplus for the 2015 budget year, which corresponds to eur 1,349 billion. the commission proposes to enter this surplus as revenue for the 2016 budget, which will have the effect of further reducing the member states' contribution to the budget. the report also calls on the union and the member states to use this surplus to meet their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis. i voted in favour of the report, in support of the budgetary proposals of the european commission.
in writing. the report on draft amending budget no 2/2016 aims to enter the surplus for the financial year 2015 in the 2016 budget. i voted in favour of this report which encourages the member states to take the opportunity offered by this reimbursement to meet their commitments to the refugee crisis and to make a contribution corresponding to that of the union to the two trust funds of the union. in the spring of 2016, member states had contributed only eur 82 million to the africa fund and eur 69 million to the madad fund for syria. the eu's contributions amount to eur 1.8 billion and more than eur 500 million respectively.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to enter the 2015 surplus, i.e. eur 1.35 billion, in the 2016 budget. the latter mainly resulted from a positive revenue execution of almost eur 1 billion, a under-execution of expenditure of eur 187 million and a currency exchange difference of eur 182 million. the report calls on member states to use this surplus to implement their 'commitments', particularly on migrants, by making an exceptional contribution to the eu's special funds. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis by eur 82 million and eur 69 million respectively. finally, the report recommends that future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the contributions of the states to the european budget. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report calls on the member states to use this opportunity to implement their 'commitments', including the irrational promises made in the wake of the migrant crisis, by making an exceptional contribution to the eu's special funds.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns draft amending budget no 2/2016 (dab) to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, i.e. eur 1.35 billion. this surplus was mainly due to a positive revenue execution of almost eur 1 billion, a shortfall in expenditure of eur 187 million and a currency exchange difference of eur 182 million. the report also highlights the pressure on payment appropriations in the implementation of the 2015 budget (in particular the high implementation rate of section iii concerning the commission), regretting that this problem continues this year and until the end of the multiannual financial framework. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis by eur 82 million and eur 69 million respectively. worse still, the report recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the state's contributions to the eu budget. i could not accept that the union should once again encroach on the budgets of sovereign states, which is why i voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fernandes report on the draft amending budget relating to the surpluses for the financial year 2015. for the year 2015, a surplus of eur 1 350 million was generated, in particular through fines paid for breaches of european regulations, which was entered in the 2016 budget and made it possible to reduce the amount of annual contributions from the member states. the report urges member states to use the money thus saved by contributing to the two trust funds dedicated to the refugee crisis, in order to help resolve it. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to budgetise for 2016 the surplus of eur 1 349 million resulting from the implementation of the 2015 budget year, thus reducing the member states' contribution to the budget even more.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not simply include in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, i.e. eur 1.35 billion. it also recommends that future surpluses be automatically reused by the european union instead of allowing a reduction in the member states' contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against draft amending budget no 2/2016: surplus for the 2015 financial year. this draft amending budget aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, i.e. eur 1,35 billion. this surplus allows member states to reduce their contributions to the eu by €1.35 billion in 2016. however, the report calls on member states to use this to implement their 'commitments', including the irrational promises made in the wake of the migrant crisis, by making an exceptional contribution to the eu's special funds. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis by eur 82 million and eur 69 million respectively. worse still, the report recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year, instead of allowing a reduction in the state's contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, the european union achieved a surplus of €1.35 billion, through a succession of positive receipts. this budget surplus will allow member states to reduce their contribution for 2016. however, the text proposes that future surpluses be directly reused by the eu the following year, preventing member states from reducing their participation rate. it also calls on them to use this surplus to implement their commitments on the migrant crisis and to make an exceptional contribution to the eu's special funds. the rapporteur also calls on them to participate in the emergency trust funds for africa and the madad fund for syria, leaving no respite for national expenditure. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the draft amending budget aims to enter the 2015 budget surplus (eur 1.35 billion) in the 2016 budget. this surplus resulted from a positive revenue execution of almost eur 1 billion, a shortfall in expenditure of eur 187 million and a currency exchange difference of eur 182 million. this surplus allows member states to reduce their contribution to the eu budget by €1.35 billion in 2016. however, the report recommends that in future any surpluses should be reallocated to the budget for the following year and should no longer be reflected in a change in the member states' contribution. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust funds for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis (€82 million and €69 million respectively).
in writing. ‒ this second amending budget for 2016 illustrates the eu's cynicism in funding the priorities it announces. the eu had a budget surplus of €1.35 billion in 2015 thanks to higher than expected revenues. but it has several billion in unpaid expenditure (8.4 billion at the end of 2015) due to a chronic under-calibration of payment appropriations in the name of austerity. instead of paying off these debts, some of which go back nine years, this report proposes to return this surplus to the states! yet they are far from having honoured their financial commitments for the much-announced european emergency funds to deal with the migrant crisis in africa and syria. they have paid only 4.5% of their contribution obligations to the emergency fund for africa, which is short of 1.7 billion; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. these funds are almost empty, so they do not work. i am voting against the absurd decision to reimburse the states for surpluses when their basic financial commitments to the emergencies of our time are not being respected.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on member states to use this opportunity to implement their 'commitments', including the irrational promises made in the wake of the migrant crisis, by making an exceptional contribution to the eu's special funds. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis. finally, the report recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the contributions of the states to the eu budget. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis by eur 82 million and eur 69 million respectively. but most importantly, the report recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the contributions of the states to the eu budget. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on amending budget 2/2016. the main provision is to transfer the surplus of eur 1 349 million from the 2015 surplus to the 2016 budget, which will reduce the member states' contribution to the budget.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget surplus allows member states to reduce their contribution by €1.35 billion in 2016. however, the report calls on member states to use this to implement their 'commitments', including the irrational promises made in the wake of the migrant crisis, by making an exceptional contribution to the eu's special funds. it also called on the member states to increase their contributions to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund for the syrian crisis by eur 82 million and eur 69 million respectively. worse still, the report recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the state's contributions to the eu budget. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the second draft amending budget for 2016. i am in favour of the european commission's proposal to allocate the 2015 budget surplus as revenue for the 2016 budget, thereby reducing the member states' contribution to the union budget. it is therefore important to clarify that member states will have to use these available funds in order to honour their commitments and, in fact, the european union's contribution to the two trust funds mobilised to manage the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, and in particular the budgetisation of the surplus for the financial year 2015. the text aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, which amounts to more than eur 1,349 billion. the adoption of the draft amending budget will be beneficial as it will reduce the share of member states' contributions by eur 1,349 billion in 2016. this reimbursement will allow member states to honour their commitments to the two funds aimed at managing the refugee crisis: the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund in response to the syrian crisis.
in writing. ‒ through this report, the eu reminds states of their 'commitments' to the policy of welcoming migrants, and asks them to pay an additional sum into the eu's special funds. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this is a directive on the digital strategy for europe. the text notes the increase in cyberattacks against the private and public sectors and proposes concrete solutions: the establishment of national authorities on these issues, coordination between countries, upgrading of key operators (energy, transport, etc.). however, once again, the solutions have the same drawbacks: imposed constraints rather than encouragement of the initiative of the actors concerned. it even proposes sanctions and the extension of 'technical' controls to the detriment of the protection of personal data. although problematic on the margins, the solutions proposed seem reasonable and positive.
in writing. ‒ even if the text is less ambitious than the one voted by the european parliament at first reading, i supported the swift adoption of the nis directive as it will pave the way for effective eu cooperation on cybersecurity based on common rules, standards and mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ this directive is part of the 'digital strategy for europe'. the proposed text is relatively positive overall, despite insufficient impact analysis and figures which remained very approximate throughout the procedure. there is a real need to improve the security of network and information systems. weaknesses: - mandatory rather than voluntary regulatory approach; - harmonisation of safety standards to overcome weaknesses in the legislation of other countries; - obligations under penalty of sanctions to cooperate with bodies of the european commission, an attitude which had caused the french authorities to reject the text at first reading at the time, although it seems less conciliatory than today. the text has not really changed in substance; - protection of personal data not sufficiently protected, in particular with regard to digital service providers (although the text was negotiated in the google case).
in writing. ‒ the intervention concerns the second reading (without final vote) of this report on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union: this directive, which is part of the digital strategy for europe, is relatively satisfactory overall, despite a glaring lack of data and a lack of research on the actual expected impacts. we can only encourage any measures to protect ourselves from the cyberattacks that are currently on the rise. this growing digital insecurity needs to be taken seriously. however, this text still deserves further study, particularly in its more binding than voluntary regulatory approach, including obligations to cooperate with european commission bodies on pain of sanctions, its lowering of certain security standards to overcome the legislative weaknesses of certain countries, or its lack of personal protection against digital service providers. this text has real potential but is (too) heavily underused (and too restrictive in respect of the principle of subsidiarity).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the union. the aim is to strengthen cooperation and coordination between member states in this field. i am in favour of the establishment of single points of contact for crossborder cooperation in each member state. incident reporting measures should also be focused on infrastructure providing essential services such as energy, transport and financial markets. measures relating to network and information security should enable member states to be better equipped and prepared to prevent and detect cybersecurity problems in the european union. the report also provides for stricter data protection requirements and harmonisation in the digital services sector.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report sets out obligations in the area of network and information security so that the rules are harmonised at european level. the report calls on the member states to provide a minimum of resources at national level and to provide for effective arrangements for cooperation and coordination between them. parliament has nevertheless amended the regulatory requirements for member states, making their obligations more flexible. i have supported this report, sharing the objectives of harmonization and development of the single market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. it is essential that member states establish competent authorities in the field of network and information security and that there are effective arrangements for cooperation and coordination between member states in this field. the rules need to be harmonised to fill the legislative gaps. finally, it is of major importance to develop a coherent approach between network and information services and cybersecurity within the european union.
in writing. ‒ at a historic moment when it is important to improve the security of online environments and to strengthen cooperation between member states and the european institutions in this field, this resolution will make progress on the necessary common rules, standards and mechanisms. the resolution therefore sets out tools for cooperation and response to cybersecurity incidents. it also lays down security and notification requirements for market players, i.e. operators of essential services (such as energy, transport, health, banking, drinking water supply and distribution, etc.) and providers of digital services (such as search engines, clouds, etc.). these two categories of actors are required to take organisational and technical measures to manage risks and to notify incidents.
in writing. ‒ this directive is part of the 'digital strategy for europe'. the proposed text is relatively positive overall, despite insufficient impact analysis and figures which remained very approximate throughout the procedure. there is a real need to improve the security of network and information systems. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data is based on the principle of mutual recognition of the right to privacy, which is enshrined in the treaty on european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the text strengthening the european means of action and reaction in the fight against cybercrime. we are not always aware of the seriousness of this new form of crime, which can be disastrous for a company and reveal worrying security flaws in the proper functioning of a state. from 2018, all infrastructures providing essential services (internet service providers, energy, transport, financial markets, health and public administrations) will be obliged to notify a cyber attack and take appropriate measures to ensure network and information security (nis). the diversity of regulatory frameworks and the highly uneven resilience of member states facilitated the spread of online attacks and viruses. common rules will now harmonise the response of states, since each member state will be required to set up an authority responsible for ihr, have emergency response teams and draw up strategic plans. we must absolutely avoid incidents like the attack on the french-language tv channel tv5 by russian hackers in april 2015 from happening again in more strategic sectors that put our security at risk and make us vulnerable to cyberterrorists.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by my colleague andreas schwab on measures to ensure a high level of security of network and information systems in the union. the report amends the regulatory requirements for the member states and market players concerned, in particular by establishing single points of contact for cross-border cooperation in each member state. in the interests of proportionality and efficiency, the obligation to notify incidents has been limited to infrastructure providing essential services, such as energy, transport, financial markets or the food supply chain. this report is important because the data protection requirements have been significantly strengthened. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which lays down obligations for european companies in certain strategic sectors to secure networks and information systems in order to better protect them against online attacks and other computer viruses. the text is based in particular on enhanced cooperation within the union on cybersecurity, even as cyberattacks continue to increase.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the commission proposed the nis directive, the first european legislation on cybersecurity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the european regional development fund, the european regional development fund and the european social fund, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the objectives of the union's external action. the text will be put to the vote again in parliament shortly. this report is a recommendation to parliament for the second reading of the nis directive. it reports on progress such as the designation of a national single safety window and the establishment of a cooperation group. the latter will be composed of representatives of the member states, the commission and the european union agency for network and information security. in the digital age, cybersecurity is a growing concern, which is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this text was not put to a final vote. this follows the numerous acts of malice (cyberattacks targeting national public authorities and often having an international dimension). it establishes cooperation between member states and encourages national initiatives (including the adoption of strategic plans). digital service providers and public administrations are subject to enhanced it security requirements. despite the positive elements, we cannot support this binding text, which obliges the national authorities to cooperate closely with the european commission and its bodies. in addition, the pressing issue of the protection of personal data is avoided.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive aims to raise the common level of security of networks and information systems within the eu. the text calls for the establishment of computer emergency response teams (cert) at national level. it also called for the establishment of a coordinated network at european level. but the report also aims to develop exchanges between public and private actors, in order to foster a culture of risk management that would build on the efforts made by market players. finally, not a single line of this report is used to denounce the espionage carried out by the nsa on behalf of the united states, which remains today the only proven threat. i am therefore voting against, in order not to participate in these hypocritical gestures.
in writing. ‒ this report is a second reading text on a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. no amendments were tabled to reject the report. the text was therefore approved without a vote, in accordance with the procedure.
in writing. ‒ this directive is part of the digital strategy for europe in a context of increasing cyberattacks on economic operators and public administrations. the proposed text is relatively positive overall despite insufficient impact analysis and very approximate figures. there is a real need to improve the security of network and information systems. i would point out several weak points: - harmonisation of security standards to overcome the weaknesses of the legislation of other countries; - obligation, under penalty of sanctions, to cooperate with bodies of the european commission, which had caused the text to be rejected at first reading by the french authorities at the time, although the text did not really change its substance; - protection of personal data not sufficiently defended, in particular with digital service providers (although the text was negotiated in the google case). i am therefore more than reserved about this report, which has not been put to a final vote at this part-session.
in writing. ‒ cybersecurity is a key issue for protecting the interests of our businesses and our citizens. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which sets common standards that will in particular strengthen cooperation between member states. in particular, companies providing services in sectors such as energy, transport, banking and healthcare will be supported to improve their resilience to cyber attacks. finally, a strategic cooperation group to exchange information and help member states build their cybersecurity capabilities will be established and it will be up to member states to develop national strategies to secure networks and information systems.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this directive on the security of network and information systems is an important step as it will allow the first eu-wide rules on cybersecurity to enter into force. the text aims to establish an open, safe and secure cyberspace and provides for security obligations for 'operators of essential services' in sectors such as energy, transport, health, banking and drinking water supply. some providers of digital services, such as search engines and cloud services, will also need to take measures to ensure the security of their infrastructure. in addition, member states should establish one or more authorities responsible for network and information security, define national strategies in this area and set up it emergency response teams. this text is not perfect. it is regrettable that the council has not been more ambitious on the level of cooperation between member states, given the increasing frequency of cyberattacks. but it is still a step in the right direction and some notable progress is to be noted.
in writing. ‒ the nis directive is the first eu-wide legislation on cybersecurity. its main objective is to improve security in the online environment and to strengthen cooperation between member states and the european institutions in this field, in order to overcome the current fragmentation. it involves the establishment of national strategies by member states, the designation of competent authorities and a dedicated incident response team. it also aims to improve cooperation between member states by networking and establishing cooperation groups. finally, it lays down certain obligations for operators of essential services and digital service providers. they shall take organisational and technical measures to manage the risks to the security of network and information systems and to prevent and mitigate the impact of incidents that compromise the security of those systems. i supported this directive in voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. the text recalls the importance of cooperation in ensuring the protection of european companies' and citizens' data, a crucial issue for the union's economic future. for example, in order to strengthen crossborder cooperation, the text calls for the establishment of single points of contact for crossborder cooperation in each member state.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the obligation to label household products on energy efficiency. it also aims to change the text of the statute from a directive to a regulation. even if this proposal does not aim to increase the commission's weight directly, it does so indirectly by changing the status of the text. by imposing new labelling rules, it strengthens the institutions to the detriment of the freedom of choice of the member states. a new european database of the products concerned would also be created at the expense of the taxpayer (for the purpose of establishing a classification of the manufacturers of these products). finally, the regulations to be complied with are not clearly established and are left to the commission's own discretion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. ‒ in this report, we call for the introduction of a new and stricter scale from a to g identifying the energy efficiency of household appliances, in order to keep pace with technological progress. stricter requirements will further stimulate improvements in energy efficiency. the label shall contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and its absolute consumption in kwh, expressed per year or any other relevant time period. we hope that the member states will follow us in this direction.
in writing. ‒ this draft regulation is yet another extension of the commission's imperialism, which is given a blank cheque to determine regulations that will directly impact our (last) producers of household appliances. the committee's amendments help to reduce the scope of this strengthening of the commission, while leaving less room for manoeuvre for the member states and maintaining the form of the regulation which maintains a central role for the commission in the application of the text. in addition, they overload the boat with information to be added to the labels, information to be filled in the database and finally, they are more stringent than the commission's proposal on labelling in the transition period between the old directive and the new regulation. i therefore voted against this regulation. sent back to committee, no vote on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to give energy efficiency labelling a second life, making it simpler, stronger, safer, clearer and more progressive.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this draft regulation which once again extends the imperialism of the commission, which is given a blank cheque to determine a regulation from which our (last) producers of household appliances will suffer. moreover, the regulation is not adapted and is too rigid where common sense would require that member states be given some latitude to adapt these objectives to their own situation. finally, the regulation calls for the creation of energy efficiency databases, which are structures that involve additional expenditure that the industries concerned cannot afford in the current situation.
in writing. ‒ i could not possibly have voted in favour of this report on energy efficiency labelling. this is a new desire on the part of the european union for legislation that is increasingly binding on the member states, as it would move from a directive to a european regulation, which applies directly without the need for transposition into national law, that is, without the involvement of national parliaments. the text adds no value to the existing rules. worse, it leads to a further waste of taxpayer money as it wants to create a european database of products with their efficiency ranking, which would amount to 1.5 million euros of costs. finally, it gives the commission almost unlimited power to legislate directly for our domestic appliance manufacturers.
in writing. ‒ this draft regulation adds nothing to the substance of directive 2010/30/eu. on the other hand, it considerably strengthens the commission's role, without however specifying the criteria used, the time limits of this energy efficiency labelling regulation, or the market surveillance to prevent volkswagen-type cheating. the member states will therefore be deprived of this competence, and our manufacturers will be subjected to even more stringent standards, and i cannot accept that. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the obligation to label products for energy efficiency, particularly in household appliances. it aims to directly strengthen the european union's power in this area by moving from a directive, which requires transposition into national law, to a regulation, which is immediately applicable. in concrete terms, the regulation will create a european product database, with the classification of their energy efficiency, the cost of which is estimated at eur 1.5 million. this regulation once again extends the scope of the european commission, which will be free to determine regulations with direct consequences for the viability of our domestic appliance producers. in defence of our national sovereignty and to preserve jobs in france, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ it is important that consumers are adequately informed about the energy efficiency of the products they buy. a european energy efficiency label will increase transparency and comparability for energy-using products. we see that there is a growing need to be careful about our energy consumption. the new energy efficiency scale a-g will encourage consumers to buy greener products and encourage producers to create more energy-efficient products. legislation in this area needed to be reformed to make labelling more legible. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to revise the rules on energy efficiency labelling. the rapporteur proposes, in particular, to introduce a clear scale from a to g identifying the energy efficiency of household appliances and replacing the "+"s proliferating in the current upper class (a+, a++, a+++), within 5 years. this draft revision is part of the union's energy and climate objectives for 2020 and 2030. in order to provide greater clarity to the consumer, the text also introduces clearer labels showing the energy efficiency class of the product model, and its absolute consumption in kwh over a given period of time. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. by voting on this text, parliament has set its guidelines and given a negotiating mandate to improve the existing energy labelling legislation. i support measures to make energy labelling more readable and understandable for consumers. they must be able to easily evaluate the products they consume, in particular by a quick comparison of their energy consumption.
in writing. ‒ i have always attached great importance to ensuring that consumers are as well informed as possible about the products they buy. energy efficiency labelling should therefore be easily understandable by all consumers. until now, however, the a+++, a++, a+ labels could be difficult to understand. i therefore support the simplification of the energy labelling scale from a to g. this will help consumers to make better informed choices about energy-efficient products, and thus save significantly. in addition to this economic aspect, this report brings us closer to the energy targets we have set ourselves. the measures in this report can provide real incentives to invest in sustainable energy consumption models. for example, in the long term, it is hoped that the ageing heating systems will be replaced. i therefore support this report, which has many advances for both consumers and the environment, and i hope that discussions with the council and the commission will begin quickly to arrive at a clear and effective final text.
in writing. ‒ in europe, everyday electrical appliances - including refrigerators and cooking appliances, washing machines, televisions, lamps and vacuum cleaners - are classified according to their electricity consumption in kilowatt-hours (kwh) from 'a to g'. in view of technological progress, new labels have been gradually added in recent years (a+, a++, a+++). the scale is no longer unique for the different types of household appliances. in order to provide clearer information to consumers and reduce their energy consumption, the current system needs to be refined and clarified. this is why a single, stricter scale from 'a to g' and the removal of the '+'s is needed. according to ademe, nearly 76% of consumers in france say they are influenced by energy labelling when making a purchase. this would therefore be a real step forward for consumers who can thus reduce their consumption and thus their electricity bill.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns an obligation to label products on energy efficiency. it authorizes the commission to make regulations which will directly penalise our already threatened domestic appliance manufacturers, and for an unlimited period of time. the cost of creating a european database of products, including their efficiency rankings, is €1.5 million. i therefore voted against this text, which is intended to strengthen the weight of the european union to the detriment of the states.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this draft regulation once again extends the imperialism of the commission, which is given a blank cheque to determine a regulation that will directly affect our producers of household appliances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. energy labelling allows everyone to save money by choosing products that consume less energy. it is therefore important to ensure that there is a real incentive to invest in better, more energy-efficient systems, including heating. to this end, the legibility of the labelling must be ensured. this new scale from a to g will be clearer for all our fellow citizens! tax incentives should be offered for products which represent an energy efficiency advantage over the older products used. they should not be reserved for the best performing products, which are difficult to afford for the poorest households.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr dario tamburrano, on energy efficiency labelling. the text calls for simplification of the single energy labelling by removing labels that could be confusing and replacing them with a clearer scale from a to g. this amendment to the code will make it easier for consumers to be informed about the energy efficiency of products and will enable everyone to contribute to environmental protection. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to provide consumers with clearer information on the energy efficiency of products by proposing a new, single and simplified energy labelling scale. consumers will thus be able to choose more energy-efficient products and thus reduce their energy consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this energy report because it wants to impose additional bureaucratic obligations on the states. it also creates a database that will be expensive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on energy efficiency labelling. the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the european union's weight by moving from a directive, which requires transposition into national law, to a regulation of immediate application, which leaves the implementation of the measures to the european commission. this regulation is negative for at least three reasons. it strengthens the weight of the european institutions in this directly applicable regulation and definitively closes the action of the states in the field of labelling. it creates a european database of products with their efficiency ranking, spending 1.5 million euros of taxpayer money. it gives the commission an unlimited period of leave to define the main elements of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to strengthen the legislative framework surrounding the energy efficiency of products. it proposes to establish a regulation laying down specific obligations for the member states, without the text being transposable and adapted to national law. many points lead to opposition, in particular the strengthening of the weight of the european institutions, the leeway granted to the commission to fix the terms of the regulation for an indefinite period... the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for the directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i think that this process of excessive standardisation and the commission's power grab must be stopped. i therefore voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this regulation regulates the energy efficiency labelling requirements for products. it would, as a regulation of immediate application, leave the commission with the responsibility for implementing measures. the text gives the european institutions a greater say and, at a cost of €1.5 million, creates a european database of products by classifying them by efficiency. it also gives the commission an unlimited mandate to define a large part of the regulation, which we oppose. the proposed amendments, apart from the fact that they seek to add information on labels, leave less room for manoeuvre for the member states.
in writing. ‒ providing accurate, relevant, verifiable and comparable information on the specific energy consumption of energy-intensive products facilitates the customer's choice in favour of products that consume less energy. mandatory uniform labelling is an effective means of providing potential consumers with comparable information on the absolute energy consumption and energy efficiency of energy-using products. the proposal retains the known classification, based on letters from a to g, with a dark green to red colour scale. but it does specify its use. thus the energy efficiency class should not be established exclusively on the basis of the most energy-efficient setting or the eco mode, as this is not representative of the behaviour of the average consumer . furthermore, the text prohibits the presence of additional labels, marks, symbols or inscriptions. they could mislead or confuse consumers. i am voting for this text and the few elements it contains to promote energy efficiency, but without any illusions about the lack of general ambition on the part of the union in this area.
in writing. ‒ this draft regulation is yet another extension of the commission's imperialism, which is given a blank cheque to determine regulations that will directly affect our (last) producers of household appliances. the amendments have helped to reduce the scope of this reinforcement of the commission, while leaving less room for manoeuvre for the member states and maintaining a central role for the commission in the application of the text. and they're overloading the labels with information, information that needs to be filled in the database. finally, they are stricter than the commission's proposal on labelling in the transitional period between the old directive and the new regulation. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal on energy efficiency labelling. the adoption of such a text, which establishes a new, single and simplified energy labelling scale, is essential to better inform the consumer about the energy efficiency of the products he buys.
in writing. ‒ no matter how much we look, this text does not bring any innovation to the substance of the regulation under consideration. the scope is the same, the general framework is the same as directive 2010/30/eu, as amended in 2012. this regulation is negative for at least three reasons:• it strengthens the weight of the european institutions in this regulation of direct application and definitively closes the action of the states in the field of labelling; • it creates a european database of products with their efficiency ranking, costing €1.5 million at the taxpayer's expense; • it gives the commission a blank cheque (article 12) for an unlimited period to define the main aspects of the regulation. this project therefore extends once again the imperialism of the commission, which is given a blank cheque to determine regulations which will directly affect our (last?) producers of household appliances. i am of course voting against.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i could not support this proposal, as i am concerned that it may bring about unnecessary bureaucracy and consequently burden the citizens of the member states and companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new rules on energy efficiency labelling of products. consumers will now be able to see a new, single and simplified energy labelling scale from a to g on products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on energy efficiency labelling to update and make more effective the existing legislation on energy efficiency labelling. providing accurate and comparable information on the energy consumption of energy-related products through clear and effective labelling is important to enable consumers to choose more energy-efficient products. we therefore propose to return to the a to g scale with a colour gradient from dark green to red which, according to several studies, is the one best understood by consumers. the label should contain information on the energy efficiency class of the product model and its absolute consumption in kwh for a given period of time. we also recommend displaying a qr code to facilitate access to a website that collects information on the products concerned. finally, it is important that this system is accompanied by increased market surveillance, educational and promotional information campaigns on energy labelling, close cooperation with suppliers and dealers and an exchange of good practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on energy efficiency labelling. the text calls for the introduction of a new, stricter a to g scale, which specifies the energy efficiency of household appliances. the readability of labelling is crucial for its effectiveness. this is why a new scale was essential. this labelling allows european citizens to choose the products that consume the least energy and thus to save money and to contribute to a better use of energy resources. the report recalls that the labelling process must have a real incentive for european consumers to buy the most energy-efficient products. the european union must continue its energy efficiency policy and provide european citizens with the tools to prioritise sustainable products.
in writing. ‒ this report, which repeals the previous directive, does not bring any real innovation on energy labelling regulations. on the contrary, this amendment will cost the european taxpayer more because of the creation of a european product base (eur 1.5 million) and takes the form of a regulation binding on the member states. in addition, it will directly punish our domestic producers of household appliances by requiring them to review their labelling on their products and to forward all this information to the commission, which will require a lot of bureaucratic work. this text seems to be once again the perfect reflection of the imperialism of the european union, and especially of the commission, which is also given a blank cheque to determine new, much more restrictive regulations. i voted against, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which aims to set up a european union border control system, bringing together the former european agency frontex and the national border management authorities. indeed, if there is a desire to improve the management of eu borders, this system is actually built to save schengen by exercising greater control of the borders of the member states and thus undermining their sovereignty. it will also in no way solve the problems of uncontrolled immigration until the eu has established a migration policy similar to australia's.
in writing. ‒ we, like our group, welcome the compromises found on this text, as they make it possible to move towards an integrated european management of our external borders. the agency will be able to detect and respond rapidly to emergency situations at the external borders, thus helping the member states on the front line. we have, however, ensured that this agency does not focus on security objectives. by participating in the management of the arrival of people in the eu (in particular by identifying and registering migrants), it will provide search and rescue and humanitarian assistance at the external borders, and will have to carry out all its missions in full respect of fundamental rights. we were not in favour of the possibility for the council to re-establish internal border controls if a member state does not implement the measures decided by the agency and the other member states. we will therefore be particularly alert if this measure is applied.
in writing. ‒ this project is designed to save schengen. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders. he thus attacks the remaining part of their sovereignty. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen the budget of frontex and to strengthen this european agency in its tasks of monitoring the external borders of the union. it is not a miracle solution that can solve the migration crisis facing the union today or fully restore confidence in the schengen area, but it is a very necessary first step and one that obliges us to move even faster in establishing a truly european governance on this difficult issue of controlling our external borders.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the establishment of a european union border control system, bringing together the former european agency frontex and national border management authorities. officially, they will continue to manage their borders in the usual way, but this new european agency will be empowered to act in the event of a crisis. this project is designed to save schengen, claiming that this free movement area is not responsible for the migration problems faced by european states. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders, despite the blatant denial that the migration crisis has brought and continues to bring to brussels' management. i could only vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of the creation of a european border and coast guard, which is just another desperate attempt by the european union to save schengen at all costs, despite the crushing failure of this treaty. the disaster of the schengen monster is unnecessary: europe is a trap, leaving the member states at the mercy of mass immigration, islamist terrorism and trafficking of all kinds. despite these many terrible reminders of the reality that only sovereign nations are capable of managing their borders and that there is no freedom, security or democracy without them, the eurocrats want to start a new phase of the european union's involvement with this european border and coast guard agency with this report. in addition to using the teams that are required to be provided by the national authorities, the agency will also allow the union to crush the sovereignty of member states that refuse to comply with a council decision and that would endanger the schengen area. a new rabbit out of the hat by brussels, but one that has difficulty concealing the totalitarianism and incompetence of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to set up a european union border control system with the help of the former european border control agency frontex and national border management authorities. in concrete terms, this decision is intended to enable a member state facing increased migratory pressures at its external border or disproportionate cross-border crime to request and benefit from the support of rapid border intervention teams. however, the text provides for sanctions against member states which do not comply with a council decision or which take measures which threaten the viability of the schengen area. the other member states would then be asked to re-impose controls at their borders with the country concerned for a period of six months, renewable three times. finally, by strengthening the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders, this project is designed to save schengen. not only does this report offer no lasting solution to stem the current migration flow, but it seriously undermines our national sovereignty. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of a european border and coast guard corps which transforms the frontex agency into the european border and coast guard agency. the new agency will strengthen the integrated management of the eu's external borders to respond to the migratory pressure that reached an unprecedented level in 2015. the agency, which has increased its financial and human resources, is developing an operational and technical strategy for the implementation of integrated border management and for monitoring the proper functioning of external border control in the event of shortcomings in certain member states. it may also provide technical and operational assistance to member states through joint operations, rapid border interventions and in cases requiring urgent action at the external borders. it will work in cooperation with the european fisheries control and maritime safety agencies on cooperation of coast guard functions.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to create a european border agency that can ensure integrated european management of external borders in the face of migratory challenges and potential external threats. to this end, cooperation between the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency will be strengthened in order to pool their efforts in fisheries control, rescue at sea and maritime security as well as migration management and surveillance of the external borders of the union. i would like to recall that this was one of the election promises of the ump in 2014; i'm glad this project finally came to fruition. i supported this report, considering that this effort to pool resources is essential in order to respond more effectively to the challenges of migration and the security of european waters.
in writing. the creation of a european border and coast guard is a strong measure that i have supported for years. in the midst of the explosion of the migration crisis, it is essential that the european union should take up this essential instrument without further delay to strengthen the external borders of the european union. with this vote, we are not only delivering on our campaign promises, but also reaffirming our commitment to a stronger europe in the face of the migration challenge. the new agency, while respecting the sovereignty of the member states, will have the necessary means of action to deal with potential shortcomings in external border controls, but also in particular to organise return operations for irregular migrants within the european union. it is now essential that this european border and coast guard should become operational as soon as possible, as early as the autumn.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report which aims to create a european border control system. the system described in the pabriks report is expected to be in place by october. the new border and coast guard agency thus created will have new tasks such as the surveillance of the external borders of the european union and will also benefit from increased human and financial resources. by supporting this report, i wanted to send a strong signal to the european citizens that protecting their security is one of our priorities. moreover, i welcome the establishment of this system which will act exclusively at the request of the member state in difficulty or failing, thus not creating a situation of interference. while it is important to act on border controls, it is equally important to preserve the sovereignty of the member states, especially on a sensitive issue such as this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will create a european border and coast guard corps to ensure integrated european management of external borders. this creation, together with the re-establishment of frontex's missions as part of a renewed agency, was necessary in the face of the influx of migrants, in order not to blow up the schengen agreements and not to leave responsibility for the external borders to a few member states in the front line. this new agency with additional human resources and with greater involvement of the european parliament should be more responsive. it will now have a mandate to act in search and rescue operations at sea and in humanitarian assistance. in addition, as regards respect for the fundamental rights of individuals, a complaint mechanism is created by this new text which also reaffirms the rule of the prohibition of the transfer of personal data in the management of migrants to european law enforcement authorities, except where strictly necessary in the detection, prevention, investigation and prosecution of serious crime.
in writing. the european union and its member states must share responsibility for the surveillance of their external, maritime and land borders. as we have been asking for years, it is therefore urgent that europe should have a european coast guard to guard its borders, with appropriate and substantial means: reconnaissance planes, boats, helicopters. the establishment of a union border control system bringing together the european agency frontex and national border management authorities is a first step. member states with pressured borders will be able to ask the european border and coast guard agency for assistance. the agency, which will not have its own teams, will then be able to call on guards provided by the member states to deploy teams rapidly at the borders concerned. i hope that this system, which is based on the goodwill of the member states, will work. but we still think that a genuine european system of coastguards and border guards, like the one in the united states, would have been much more effective.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the establishment of a european union border control system, bringing together the former european agency frontex and the national border management authorities. officially, national authorities will continue to manage their borders on a day-to-day basis, but if their external eu borders are under pressure, they will be able to seek the assistance of the european border and coast guard agency. this project is designed to save schengen and reinforce the eu's grip on the member states' border management. he thus attacks the remaining part of their sovereignty. it is presented as a miracle cure for the problem of uncontrolled immigration, when it will solve nothing as long as the eu refuses to implement a responsible policy like that of the australian government. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this bill is designed to save schengen. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders. he thus attacks the remaining part of their sovereignty. it will be presented as a miracle solution to the problem of uncontrolled immigration, when it will solve nothing as long as the eu refuses to implement the policy pursued by the australian government.
in writing. ‒ the european border and coast guard is supposed to be brussels' security response to reinforced controls at the eu's external borders, after (but are we well past?) the 'refugee' crisis. the commission is proposing to extend the powers of frontex: if necessary, member states should make it compulsory to provide the agency with national teams of coastguards and border guards to reinforce controls at the union's external borders. this would be done at the request of the state directly facing exceptional migratory pressure, or would be strongly suggested to it, on condition that it itself no longer benefits from the absence of internal border controls in the union. in short, we are putting into legislative form what has happened and is still happening in greece. there is no guarantee of success, since the aim is not to stop immigration but to organise the selection of candidates at union level. because the european institutions firmly and cynically believe that europe needs immigrants to compensate for its disastrous birth rate and to save the pension systems. it is above all a question of trying to save the aberration of schengen, the area without internal borders which encourages immigration. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 6 july, i voted in favour of this report to create a european border and coast guard corps, which should become operational at the beginning of october and mobilise up to 1 500 men. the new border and coast guard agency, which will replace frontex, will have strengthened capabilities and tasks, including control of the union's external borders and the return of irregular migrants. this border guard corps will only intervene at the request of a failing country and member states will be able to re-establish internal border controls in the event of laxity or disengagement by their neighbours. this agreement responds to the concerns of citizens who want more security and control while respecting the will of the member states.
in writing. i voted for this reform of frontex because it will allow the agency to participate in a more european and more efficient management of our external borders. the agency will have increased resources to react more rapidly and collectively, including a reserve of 1 500 border and coastguards. it will be able to detect emergencies and provide the best possible assistance to the member states 'on the front line' at our external borders, which is essential. my group has, however, taken care to introduce certain safeguards into the functioning of the agency. frontex will be carrying out search and rescue operations which will now clearly be part of its missions. frontex will have to carry out all its missions in full respect of fundamental rights and will have a new complaints mechanism as a flagship, something that the parliament and the european ombudsman have long advocated. it will also have to develop specific training tools for the protection of minors and vulnerable persons. i therefore supported this text, which makes it possible to make the management of our borders more european and solidary, and which introduces guarantees for respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal to create a european border and coast guard corps to operate at the borders of the member states without their consent was an option i rejected as a whole. for me, there was no question of having a supranational agency that imposed itself on the member states in defiance of their sovereignty. i therefore welcome the final agreement reached in the interinstitutional negotiations. we now have a new agency, the border and coast guard agency, which will replace frontex and will be given additional human and financial resources to protect our borders effectively. the agency will only intervene at the request of a state which is overwhelmed or failing and will mobilise up to 1 500 national border guards, the number and profile of whom will be decided annually by each member state. if a state refuses the agency's assistance but its laxity threatens the stability of its neighbours' borders, they can reinstate internal border controls. finally, the agency will be responsible for returning irregular migrants. this is a welcome step, given that less than 40% of return decisions to europe are actually enforced. in my view, this agency is a good synthesis between the necessary european cooperation and solidarity and respect for national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the establishment of a european union border control system, bringing together the former european agency frontex and the national border management authorities. officially, national authorities will continue to manage their borders on a day-to-day basis, but if their external eu borders are under pressure, they can ask the european border and coast guard agency for help. this project is designed to save schengen. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders. he thus attacks the remaining part of their sovereignty. it will be presented as a miracle solution to the problem of uncontrolled immigration, when it will solve nothing as long as the eu refuses to implement the policy pursued by the australian government. for these reasons i naturally opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr artis pabriks, on the creation of a european border and coast guard. this new european force, which should be operational at the beginning of october and will mobilise up to 1 500 men, is in my view a key element in the union's response to the current migration crisis. it will replace frontex and will see its resources and range of missions strengthened. these tasks include in particular the control of the external borders of the union and the return of irregular migrants. the creation of this body is the element that has been missing in the schengen area so far in order to achieve a balance between free movement within this area and the securing of its external borders, which is why i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen the integrated management of the european union's external borders in order to respond to the migratory pressure that reached an unprecedented level in 2015. the european management of our borders thus established will make it possible to deal effectively with emergency situations, while preserving the sovereignty of the member states. the new european border and coast guard corps, which will replace the current frontex agency, is expected to become operational in early october and will mobilise up to 1 500 men.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, for which i was the 'fictitious rapporteur', i.e. the second rapporteur. it is creating a european border guard agency in the hope of saving the schengen area. however, this super frontex will not be more effective than the frontex agency it replaces, which is notoriously unsuccessful. the new agency will, however, further undermine the sovereignty of states by imposing the migration policy of the european union on them through 'liaison officers' responsible for monitoring them within their borders.
in writing. ‒ in the 2014 european elections, one of our main promises was to protect the external borders. by voting in favour of the pabriks report on the european border and coast guard, we are making good on that promise. the agency will be able to rapidly deploy up to 1 500 border guards from different member states to a country overwhelmed by an influx of migrants. the challenge for this new tool, which will replace the european agency frontex with an extended mandate, is to avoid a repetition of the chaos at an external border, such as the one experienced by greece. in the european commission's initial proposal, i was concerned about the 'right of intervention' of the european border guards. in the text we have adopted, it is no longer the commission but the council, and therefore the member states, which would decide, by qualified majority, to intervene in a country which does not ask for assistance. if the country concerned refuses, the other countries could temporarily reintroduce internal border controls in the schengen area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european border and coast guard. this project is designed to save schengen. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders. he thus attacks the remaining part of their sovereignty. it is presented as a miracle solution to the problem of uncontrolled immigration, when it will solve nothing as long as the european union refuses to apply a policy comparable to that pursued by the australian government. i therefore call for the restoration of national sovereignty in asylum and immigration policy.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the text is to create a border guard corps bringing together the former european agency frontex and the national border management authorities. the project, detailed in the report, would mobilise national guard teams to rescue an eu state. in the event of increased migratory pressure at its borders or of significant cross-border crime, these teams will be called upon. such reinforcements would be mobilised at the request of the state concerned or by a council decision. in the event of a serious increase in pressure and a threat to the schengen area, the other member states will have the possibility of imposing border controls on the schengen area for a certain period of time. although the political will seems firm, it is explicitly wrong. the text strengthens the commission's grip on national borders, undermines the sovereignty of states and seeks to save the schengen area. i am opposed to it by voting against it.
in writing. ‒ in order to better protect the external borders of the european union, the commission proposed in december 2015 to create a european border and coast guard corps to ensure an integrated european management of the external borders. the new agency, which will replace frontex, will bring about a common responsibility for the management of the external borders, so that this responsibility is not left to a few member states. better management of our external borders should also make it possible to return to the normal functioning of the schengen area. this regulation will enable the union to have a more responsive structure in the future, with strengthened tasks and accountable to parliament and the council. i welcome the fact that new guarantees on respect for fundamental rights are being included in the functioning of the new agency. a complaint mechanism will be integrated and should be accessible to persons crossing the external borders of the union. third parties will be able to file complaints on behalf of victims. finally, the agency will have to develop specific training tools for the protection of minors and vulnerable persons. i am satisfied with the agreement reached between parliament and the council and i am voting in favour of this regulation.
in writing. - i voted against this text. at first sight, this text seems quite timely, even necessary, in attempting to provide europe with a border guard while respecting the national sovereignty of the member states, since officially the state authorities are still in charge of their borders while being able to ask for help from this new structure. in reality, this text is a deception. this european agency, bringing together the former frontex agency and national border management authorities, is designed to maintain the schengen area, at a time when all the peoples are realizing their inability to protect the eu. the text also provides that the states will be obliged to provide guards to the agency, staff who will no longer be able to carry out other state-specific tasks. this measure deprives each nation of a little more sovereignty. it should be stressed that the fact that a member state could be forced to reimpose internal borders in the event of non-compliance with control obligations is a laudable regulation. the 18-month limit is meaningless...
in writing. ‒ this report supports the commission's proposal to strengthen the external border management agency, frontex. first of all, let's remember that this agency is not in charge of rescuing migrants as it claims but of filtering them. this is to preserve 'fortress europe' and cases of human rights violations in this exercise are regularly denounced by ngos. the text also prohibits any alternative political initiative by member states to welcome migrants. states will therefore be subject to mandatory 'vulnerability' tests. the agency will be able to arrange the deployment of border guards without the necessary authorisation from the state! the state will have to provide him with its own staff. of course, stopping the european interventions that have sown the syrian regional chaos and forced these populations into exile is not part of the reflection on the causes of these massive waves of immigration. and it is only right that respect for fundamental rights and the right to asylum, which is a matter of international law and not of ideology, be recalled. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this project is designed to save schengen. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders. he thus attacks the remaining part of their sovereignty. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this project is designed to save schengen. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders. he thus attacks the remaining part of their sovereignty. it will be presented as a miracle solution to the problem of uncontrolled immigration, when it will solve nothing. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal to establish the european border and coast guard agency. the commission wants to strengthen the integrated management of the european union's external borders to combat illegal immigration. this is the implementation of a major commitment made by our political family of the right and centre in each of the european elections in recent years. while the protection of the external borders of the european union is essential in managing the migration crisis we are experiencing in europe, it will not be enough: we must do everything to ensure that migrants no longer have to leave their territory, by fighting against the terrorism they and we are suffering, by implementing a political solution in syria and libya, by supporting them with policies of co-development.
in writing. ‒ this project is designed to save schengen. it strengthens the european union's grip on the management of the member states' borders. it seriously undermines what remains of their sovereignty. it will be presented as a miracle solution to the problem of uncontrolled immigration, when it will solve nothing as long as the eu refuses to implement the policy pursued by the australian government. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of a european border and coast guard agency. this commitment to the 2014 campaign for a europe that acts and protects is therefore being fulfilled and updates the current frontex agency, which will see its budgetary and human capacities strengthened: €238 million in 2016 and €277 million in 2017. france has committed to providing 170 border guards to the agency's staff. in association with the national border management authorities, the new european agency will now be able to better control our external borders and, above all, organise, coordinate and carry out return operations for illegal migrants. it goes without saying that this european structure will fulfil its tasks while respecting the sovereignty of action of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ meps voted in favour of the creation of a european border and coast guard corps, which should ensure a common, more efficient and better managed management of the union's external borders. the increase in the capacity of the new agency and the strengthening of its powers will go hand in hand with more parliamentary scrutiny. the agency will therefore not only focus on security objectives, but will also act in cooperation with easo to assist persons under international protection. contrary to the commission and council's wishes, it will not have investigative powers in the fight against crossborder crime and less emphasis is placed on returning to its mandate. parliament has played a very important role in getting all this progress, as well as the establishment of a complaints mechanism, the proper functioning of which we will monitor closely. the establishment of the agency is a positive step, but it is not the panacea for the current migration challenges. member states must do more to welcome and integrate refugees and asylum seekers, and develop safe and legal pathways to the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of a european border and coast guard to secure the external borders of the union and restore the functioning of the schengen area. it is high time that the european union acted to deal with the migration crisis it is facing. and these measures are, in my view, a first step. the number of detections of illegal border crossings in the union increased significantly to reach 1,83 million in 2015. the new system, which will be composed of the european agency frontex and national border management authorities, will provide support to member states facing increased pressure at their external borders through a pool of coastguards and technical equipment ready to be deployed if needed. if a member state does not make use of the proposed measures and opposes a council decision to provide assistance, the other countries of the union may temporarily reintroduce border controls with that country. finally, parliament will be kept informed through regular briefing and access to information for members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr artis pabriks. in this report, the european parliament endorses the creation of a european border and coast guard corps, which will be responsible for ensuring an integrated european management of the external borders. this is a step in the right direction: it is essential to support member states which have borders with non-eu countries. better management of our external borders should also allow a return to normal functioning of the schengen area in order to counter any attempt to return to national borders. the new agency will be more responsive, with enhanced missions and greater resources. it will be required to report regularly to parliament and the council, to which it will be directly accountable, for greater transparency. finally, it is good that the agency is not only focusing on security objectives but also taking into account elements related to humanitarian assistance.
in writing. ‒ the unprecedented migration crisis we are experiencing requires the eu to adopt strong provisions in terms of border policy if we are to be able to manage it. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which creates a genuine european border and coast guard. the european corps is expected to become operational at the beginning of october and will employ up to 1 500 men. a new border and coast guard agency will replace frontex and its financial and human resources will be strengthened. this border guard corps will intervene at the request of a country in difficulty and member states will be able to re-establish internal border controls in the event of laxity or disengagement by their neighbours. it will also organise return operations for irregular migrants.
in writing. ‒ on 15 december, the european commission proposed the creation of a european border and coast guard corps to ensure the european management of external borders. this new agency modifies frontex - the agency for managing cooperation at external borders - and brings about a shared responsibility in border control so that it is not just the responsibility of the countries on europe's borders. the agency may intervene if a member state 'under high migratory pressure' fails to take the measures deemed necessary. search and rescue operations will be part of european border management, and guarantees in terms of protection of fundamental rights and migrants are included in the agreement. i voted in favour of the creation of the agency. it is not intended to focus on a security objective, but to serve the dual purpose of border security and humanitarian assistance to migrants whose plight no one can pretend to ignore. the coordination with the fisheries control agency will also make it possible to increase the monitoring of the activities of illegal transporters in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european union wants to bring together all its forces to ensure control of its external borders and proposes to bring together frontex and the national border management authorities. this represents a handful of people who will be tasked with controlling over 13 500 km of land borders and more than three times as many maritime borders. this new european intervention force is in fact the commission's all-risk insurance to preserve its jewel: the schengen area. this text strengthens the grip of frontex and thus of the european union on what remains of the sovereignty of states, without providing any guarantees in the field of border security. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ more than 3 700 people died in the mediterranean last year and at least 3 000 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean this year. however, the eu does not prioritise the setting up of rescue operations. the result of securing europe's borders is appalling: the number of refugees dying in the mediterranean is only increasing. however, not satisfied with this overwhelming result, the commission has proposed the establishment of a 'super new european border and coast guard agency' to replace frontex with a broader mandate and a strengthened arsenal. the new agency will have 1 500 reserve border guards who can be 'rapidly deployed' to the territory of a 'vulnerable' member state and will have a stronger role in interceptions at sea, landings in the nearest ports and a stronger role in returns and cooperation with third countries, all outside the democratic control of parliament. - what's the deed? this deadly policy must end. that is why my group, the gue/ngl, tabled an amendment rejecting this proposal, which was rejected. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the european maritime safety agency. the aim of this text was to renew cooperation between the frontex agency and the european maritime safety agency and thus to renew the existing working agreement between the two agencies. i support the rapporteur, marie-christine arnautu, who has worked towards an agreement that would strengthen effective surveillance of maritime borders by stopping smuggling and allowing the member states concerned to monitor the activities of european agencies. this report was not adopted by the committee on transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the three european agencies to support national authorities carrying out coast guard functions. this will enable efca to increase its control and inspection activities and to carry out new types of operations to detect criminal activities, disrupt trafficking routes and finally ensure the application of european and national legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur, my report was not adopted by the members of the committee on transport, who were outraged by the content of the amendments, which they considered offensive to migrants, even though they merely recalled the need to monitor maritime borders effectively, to put an end to smuggling and to allow the member states concerned to monitor the activities of european agencies. following the failure to adopt the report, president cramer invoked rule 50 of the ep's rules of procedure to have the commission's proposal adopted under the simplified procedure so that the establishment of the new frontex agency would not be delayed. i therefore voted against this report, which is in line with the commission's proposal to facilitate illegal immigration and play into the hands of smugglers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it aims at the creation of a new european agency in charge of maritime safety. this agency would have essential missions, as highlighted by our news: to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety within the european union, to prevent pollution and to respond to pollution caused by ships or oil and gas installations.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to extend cooperation between frontex and the european maritime safety agency. i voted against this report, which is effectively facilitating the work of smugglers. in fact, no concrete means of combating immigration are mentioned, except that of picking up migrants and dropping them off on european coasts when they must be dissuaded from coming.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed this commission proposal to renew cooperation between the frontex agency and the european maritime safety agency. i would like to say that i am shocked by the procedure that has taken place here, since my colleague, marie-christine arnautu, who was rapporteur on this text, was the subject of a real attempt at sabotage by the other members who refused to amend her text. it did, however, make some sensible proposals: that the agreement should be used to combat illegal immigration through cooperation in the search for illegal boats, to put an end to smugglers' trafficking or to allow member states to monitor the activities of european agencies. since democracy is a dead letter in the european parliament, the chairman of the committee on transport decided to invoke rule 50 of the rules of procedure to get the commission's proposal adopted under the simplified procedure. once again the true face of those eurocrats is revealed who prefer to block any democratic procedure for their own political and personal interests, rather than cooperate in good faith.
in writing. ‒ while i am of course in favour of rescue missions at sea for poor migrants exploited by the illegal smugglers' networks, i note and regret that the amendments tabled by my colleague marie-christine arnautu, which were aimed precisely at combating illegal immigration rather than promoting it, in particular by the use of appropriate means (satellites, drones), were not adopted. the use of article 50 for the adoption of the commission's report under the simplified procedure following its rejection is an unacceptable manoeuvre. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to renew cooperation between the former european border and coast guard agency frontex and the european maritime safety agency. marie-christine arnautu, mep for the front national, had drawn up a report on this issue so that this cooperation would help to combat illegal immigration instead of facilitating it, in particular by searching for illegal boats by satellite or drone with the aim of mooring them in italy or greece, thus playing the game of smugglers. following the failure to adopt his report, the chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, michael cramer, invoked rule 50 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament to adopt the european commission's legislative proposal under the simplified procedure with the aim of speeding up the establishment of the new frontex agency, which we oppose. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report strengthens the mandate of the european maritime safety agency. it will now be able to support national authorities in the exercise of their coastguard functions in cooperation with the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency. the agencies are now sharing information and are setting up inter-agency information exchange systems. they provide surveillance services together and communicate through advanced technology. their capacities are strengthened and shared to enable the planning and implementation of multidimensional operations. the agency retains its core mission, its mandate is simply extended to the cooperation of coast guard functions. i voted in favour of this report, which is necessary for proper european coastguard cooperation between the three agencies concerned.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to create a european border agency that can ensure integrated european management of external borders in the face of migratory challenges and potential external threats. to this end, cooperation between the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency will be strengthened, in order to pool their efforts in fisheries control, rescue at sea and maritime security as well as migration management and surveillance of the external borders of the union. i would like to recall that this was one of the electoral promises of the ump in 2014, and i am glad that this project has finally been able to succeed. i supported this report, considering that this effort to pool resources is essential in order to respond more effectively to the challenges of migration and the security of european waters.
in writing. i supported this text on the european maritime safety agency in order to adapt it to the establishment of a european border and coast guard. to ensure the effectiveness of the agency, it is essential to ensure good cooperation and coordination between the different agencies operating in this field. in particular, it stresses the importance of the exchange of information between the european maritime safety agency, the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, in order to facilitate their operations.
in writing. ‒ the evolution of the frontex agency into the european border and coast guard agency requires the renewal of the working agreement between the frontex agency and the european maritime safety agency. my colleague marie-christine arnautu, the rapporteur on this text, had amended the commission's legislative proposal to insist that this agreement was aimed at combating illegal immigration and not at facilitating it. we must avoid playing the role of smugglers by searching for illegal boats via satellites or drones and then dropping off their occupants in italy or greece. the arnautu report was not adopted by the members of the committee on transport, who were outraged by the content of the amendments which simply proposed to put an end to the smuggling of people and to allow the member states concerned to monitor the activities of the european agencies. i therefore voted against this text, which follows the non-adoption of the arnautu report, where president cramer invoked rule 50 of the ep's rules of procedure to have the commission's proposal adopted under the simplified procedure.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 6 july, i supported this report because it is essential to strengthen security at the external borders of the european union. to meet the challenges of the 21st century, such as the migration crisis or the fight against terrorism, it is imperative to make better use of the tools at our disposal and to develop new synergies between european actors. i particularly welcome the encouragement for the sharing of information and capabilities between the european maritime safety agency, the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. ‒ the evolution of the frontex agency into the european border and coast guard agency requires the renewal of the working agreement between the two agencies. the rapporteur on this text, my colleague from the enl group, marie-christine arnautu, had amended the commission's legislative proposal to insist that this labour agreement should be used to combat illegal immigration and not to facilitate it, in particular by searching for illegal boats by satellite or drones for the sole purpose of dropping off their occupants in italy, greece, etc., thus playing the game of smugglers. following the failure to adopt the arnautu report, president cramer invoked rule 50 of the european parliament's rules of procedure in order to have the commission's proposal adopted under the simplified procedure so that the establishment of the new frontex agency would not be delayed... i have logically voted against this new cramer report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michael cramer on the amendment of the regulation on the european maritime safety agency. the proposal lays down a legal basis for the development of a framework for cooperation between member states for coast guard functions, which will ensure greater synergy between several european agencies responsible for maritime safety. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which extends the mandate of the european maritime safety agency to support national authorities responsible for coast guard missions, in cooperation with the european fisheries control agency and the european border and coast guard.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it will facilitate immigration, whereas migrants should be discouraged from coming to europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european maritime safety agency. the evolution of the frontex agency into the european border and coast guard agency requires the renewal of the working agreement between the two agencies. the rapporteur, marie-christine arnautu, had amended the commission's legislative proposal to insist that this labour agreement should be used to combat illegal immigration and not to facilitate it, in particular by searching for illegal boats by satellite or drones for the sole purpose of dropping off their occupants in italy, greece, etc., thus playing the game of smugglers. the arnautu report was not adopted by the members of the committee on transport, who expressed outrage at the content of the amendments, which they considered offensive towards migrants, even though they merely recalled the need to monitor maritime borders effectively, to put an end to smuggling and to allow the member states concerned to monitor the activities of european agencies.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the evolution of frontex, which is renewing its working agreement with the european maritime safety agency. the report was authored by marie-christine arnautu, mep for the enl group, who set the legislative text to ensure that the agreement was a tool to combat illegal immigration and put an end to the trafficking of smugglers. it turns out that his political opponents boycotted his text by using various procedural means. the tran committee therefore rejected this proposal as a whole and succeeded in voting only on the text proposed by the commission, which goes in the opposite direction to the proposals of our member. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the purpose of this text is to extend cooperation between the frontex agency and the european maritime safety agency. the change of nature of frontex into the european border and coast guard agency requires the maintenance of the working agreement between the two institutions. the rapporteur, mep marie-christine arnautu, tabled several amendments which focused on the very subject of the text: the fight against illegal immigration. it is important to be aware that often the tools put in place to combat immigration (such as the use of surveillance drones) become the instruments of immigration. why? because the purpose changes. for the drones, for example, it becomes the route for illegal immigrants to italy, greece, etc. these amendments were not adopted. we oppose this report, which distorts the primary purpose of these institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to change the role of the european maritime safety agency to become an auxiliary of frontex in the context of the widespread hunt for migrants and refugees. the agency's initial mission was to ensure safety in maritime transport and to monitor pollution related to this transport, but it is now responsible for 'the provision of surveillance and communication services based on advanced technologies' and for cooperation 'with regard to coast guard functions'. the use of drones proposed by the commission to search for refugee boats has so far been rejected by parliament, but the text does give a good overview of the security policy in which the european union is locked. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report by my colleague marie-christine arnautu was not adopted by the members of the tran committee, who expressed their outrage at the content of the amendments, which they considered offensive towards migrants, even though they merely recalled the need to monitor maritime borders effectively, to put an end to smuggling and to allow the member states concerned to monitor the activities of european agencies. following the failure to adopt the report, president cramer invoked rule 50 of the european parliament's rules of procedure in order to have the commission's proposal adopted under the simplified procedure, so that the establishment of the new frontex agency would not be delayed. i therefore voted against this dossier which is intended to facilitate illegal immigration and to play into the hands of smugglers.
in writing. ‒ the text does not even mention the need to monitor maritime borders effectively, to stop smuggling and to allow the member states concerned to monitor the activities of the european agencies. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european maritime safety agency, which aims to amend the regulation establishing the agency. it will now be able to cooperate more closely with the european fisheries control agency and the european border and coast guard corps in order to better support the national authorities responsible for coast guard missions.
in writing. ‒ the evolution of the frontex agency into the european border and coast guard agency requires the renewal of the working agreement between the two agencies. my colleague marie-christine arnautu, who was rapporteur on this text, insisted on fighting illegal immigration and not facilitating it, in particular by searching for illegal boats by satellite or drones for the sole purpose of dropping off their occupants in italy, greece, etc., thus playing the game of smugglers. the arnautu report was not adopted by the members of the transport committee, who considered it offensive to migrants even though it merely recalled the need to monitor maritime borders effectively, to stop smuggling and to allow the member states concerned to monitor the activities of european agencies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european border guard agency. i am naturally voting against this text, which will only strengthen the illegal channels and feed the traffickers of human flesh.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the migration crisis, the european commission proposed to establish coastguard cooperation by strengthening the missions of different european agencies, including the european maritime safety agency. the agency will therefore retain its main mandate but will extend its scope of action to coast guard functions, in cooperation with the european fisheries control agency and the european border and coast guard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european maritime safety agency. the aim of this text is to strengthen european cooperation on coast guard functions and to improve cooperation and coordination between the relevant eu agencies in order to increase synergies between their respective services. cross-sectoral cooperation between the european border and coast guard agency, the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european fisheries control agency (efca) will be developed to improve synergies between them, with a view to providing national authorities with coast guard functions with more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose services. i supported this text because it aims to make the management of external borders more coherent and efficient.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to extend cooperation between the frontex agency and the european maritime safety agency. the commission proposal is finally put to the vote under a simplified procedure, as the committee on transport and tourism has not agreed to comment on the report by mrs arnautu (enl), which was considered too violent towards migrants when it was just trying to monitor our external borders more effectively. finally, this text simply serves to justify the current european migration policy which consists of using the european maritime safety agency and frontex to lead migrants to italy or greece, and to play the game of illegal smugglers. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which proposes that the european fisheries control agency (efca) be involved in managing migratory flows. this text represents a new step towards the creation of the european border and coast guard. the problem of sovereignty also arises since national resources will now be coordinated by the european union. finally, the eu contribution to the aecp will increase by around €7.5 million per year (or around €30.148 million for the period 2017-2020).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the three european agencies to support national authorities carrying out coast guard functions. this will enable efca to increase its control and inspection activities and to carry out new types of operations to detect criminal activities, disrupt trafficking routes and finally ensure the application of european and national legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ this proposal echoes the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coast guard functions, adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget. i opposed this project. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which states that it wants to make a contribution to the future european fisheries control agency to manage disasters at sea - in fact, migratory flows. in addition to the fact that this extension of the mandate of the aecp as originally defined is an infringement of the sovereignty of states in that it constitutes a step towards the creation of a european coast guard corps, this project implies an increase in the budget allocated to the aecp and therefore a further step in european agency with results so far more than mixed.
in writing. ‒ today there are no less than 70 different structures through which national authorities manage disaster at sea, maritime safety, environmental protection and maritime border control. it is not surprising, therefore, that the current system of cooperation is repeatedly slow and lacking in efficiency. the aim of this proposal is to enable the three european agencies, the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency, which are faced with disasters at sea, among other things, to coordinate their operations at sea. it is high time there was an inter-agency exchange of information. i believe that these three agencies, working together effectively, can therefore be a serious support to the work of the national authorities. this cooperation is essential in the current migration context. if the solutions advocated by the commission to solve the migrant crisis, and i am thinking in particular of the readmission agreement concluded with turkey, do not suit us, this initiative is a good step towards a more rational management of our coasts and seas.
in writing. ‒ there are currently over 316 national authorities in europe to manage various functions (environment, coastguards, borders, etc.), which leads to delays due to the lack of information on the competences of each. the report proposes to increase the eu contribution to the aecp by around €7.5 million per year (or around €30.148 million for the period 2017-2020) and to recruit 13 ta. the european fisheries control agency (efsa) will then be called upon to help manage migratory flows. the commission therefore wants to coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level. this proposal echoes the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coast guard functions, adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget, which i had already opposed. so naturally i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this text is a further step towards strengthening the eu's role in maritime border control at the expense of the states concerned. it extends the mandate of the european fisheries control agency in the event of a 'disaster at sea', i.e. difficulties encountered by migrants on their way to europe. this is in addition to similar provisions envisaged for the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency. it is therefore foreseen that these three agencies will be able to coordinate their rescue operations where necessary. i am of course opposed to these guidelines which strip the member states concerned of their competence in this area. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of administrative shortcomings resulting from the lack of information on the competences of the 316 national authorities coexisting to manage border control and the protection of the marine environment, this report proposes to extend the scope of the european fisheries control agency (efca). the report also calls for the agency to be involved in managing migration flows. on the one hand, the enlargement of the mandate of cepol is a step towards the creation of european border and coast guards. on the other hand, the coordination of national resources by the european union, as proposed in this report, constitutes an indirect transfer of sovereignty to the detriment of the member states. finally, the commission has not yet explained how it intends to finance the €7.5 million increase in the acep budget. for all these reasons, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my report which strengthens the mandate of the european fisheries control agency. it will now be able to support national authorities in their coast guard duties. the agency may share surveillance information and equipment with the european border and coast guard agency and the european maritime safety agency in order to improve maritime safety and security. in addition to fisheries control, it will be able to intervene in multidimensional operations, in particular in the fields of rescue at sea, customs control and the fight against illegal immigration. the extension of the agency's powers does not call into question its primary tasks in fisheries control, but rather extends its field of action with the agreement of its administrative board and in respect of the sovereignty of the member states. this report makes for a more united and more effective europe in terms of the security of the european maritime area.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to create a european border agency that can ensure integrated european management of external borders in the face of migratory challenges and potential external threats. to this end, cooperation between the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency will be strengthened in order to pool their efforts in fisheries control, rescue at sea and maritime security as well as migration management and surveillance of the external borders of the union. i would like to recall that this was one of the electoral promises of the ump in 2014, and i am glad that this project has finally been able to succeed. i supported this report, considering that this effort to pool resources is essential in order to respond more effectively to the challenges of migration and the security of european waters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr alain cadec, on the amendment of the regulation establishing the community fisheries control agency. the coordination of the three agencies (the european maritime safety agency, the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency) is essential in the current context to ensure maritime safety and security. this will enable these three agencies to share surveillance information and save new lives at sea. in addition, the community fisheries control agency will have the main task of supporting national authorities in their coast guard functions, thus enabling capacity building at both national and eu level.
in writing. ‒ the proposal made by the european commission aims to coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level. it also proposes to add an article on cooperation between coast guard functions in the mandate of the european fisheries control agency. the same text has been introduced in the mandates of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european border and coast guard agency. the aim is to enable the three european maritime agencies, particularly in the event of disasters at sea, to coordinate their operations at sea and to share information relevant to their actions. this proposal echoes the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coast guard functions, adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget. i voted against this because i was against it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this proposal echoes the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coast guard functions, adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget. we were opposed to this project.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the reinforcement of the mandate of the european fisheries control agency, the principle of which was put forward by my colleague, mr alain cadec. this amendment is part of the creation of the european border and coast guard agency. the competences of the fisheries agency are strengthened with regard to coast guard functions and coordinated with the new agency and the european maritime safety agency. the three agencies will thus be able to support national authorities performing coast guard functions by providing services, information, equipment, training and coordinating multi-purpose operations. the aim is not to challenge the competences of the 300 national coastguard authorities, but to strengthen their coordination and improve the exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ the proposal made by the european commission aims to coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level. it also proposes to add an article on cooperation between coast guard functions to the mandate of the european fisheries control agency. the same text has been introduced in the mandates of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european border and coast guard agency. the aim is to enable the three european maritime agencies, particularly in the event of disasters at sea, to coordinate their operations at sea and to share information relevant to their actions. this proposal echoes the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coast guard functions, adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget. i have opposed this proposal before and i repeat my objection to this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr alain cadec, on the european fisheries control agency. the report aims to extend the mandate of the european fisheries control agency so that it can provide support to national authorities carrying out coast guard missions. through information sharing and coordination of action capacities, the report calls for increased cooperation between european agencies responsible for maritime safety and security. this will maximise the effectiveness of surveillance, prevention and control operations at sea, which is why i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which extends the mandate of the european fisheries control agency to support national authorities carrying out coast guard missions, in cooperation with the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard. it will make available to the member states human and material resources and its expertise in order to participate actively in border control and disaster prevention at sea.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it uses the european fisheries control agency to manage migratory flows. this will be one more way of facilitating the passage of migrants through europe. it should be noted that the author of this report is alain cadec, head of the republican list in the 2014 european elections. this speaks volumes about the double discourse of the republicans, anti-immigrant in the french media but pro-immigrant in the european parliament!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european fisheries control agency. the european fisheries control agency (efca) will be involved in managing migratory flows, because that is what disasters at sea are all about. the commission proposes to add an article on cooperation between coast guard functions to the mandate of the european fisheries control agency. this extension of the mandate of the ceas is a step towards the creation of the european border and coast guard. this is a transfer of sovereignty: national resources will be 'coordinated' by the european union. it is trying to save the schengen system at all costs.
in writing. - i voted against it. it increases the powers of the european fisheries control agency (efca) to include the management of migratory flows (referred to in the text as disasters at sea). funded at €7.5 million per year, it will be the means for the european commission, with the supervision also of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european border and coast guard agency, to coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations and share useful information. it is clear that the commission is violating the sovereignty of states by using the migration crisis as a pretext.
in writing. - i voted against this text. its purpose is to coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level. once again, the original idea is not without common sense but in reality, as the chairman of the fisheries committee confirmed on 17 february 2016, it is the management of migratory flows that is at issue here. the mandate of the european fisheries control agency (efca) is thus extended, a first step in the creation of the european border and coast guard, which we oppose. the text thus provides for an indirect transfer of sovereignty, since national resources will be appropriated and then coordinated by the eu. the text also proposes to add an article on the cooperation of coast guard functions in the mandate of the european fisheries control agency, in the same way as in the mandates of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european border and coast guard agency, in order to coordinate the actions of the three european maritime agencies. this is in line with the european parliament's pilot project, which we opposed, on the coordination of european coast guard functions, which was adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency contributes to the control of fisheries operations but cannot currently act in other maritime areas. the purpose of this proposal is to change the role of the european fisheries agency to make it an auxiliary of the frontex system in its hunt for refugees. the new tasks of the agency include 'border control', 'provision of surveillance and communication services' and 'sharing of assets between sectors and borders to enable the planning and implementation of multi-dimensional operations'. these amendments divert the agency from its main and yet essential role. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this proposal echoes the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coast guard functions, adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget. i opposed this project. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this proposal echoes the european parliament's pilot project on the coordination of european coastguard functions, adopted in the framework of the 2016 eu budget, which i had already opposed. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european fisheries control agency, which aims to extend the mandate of the agency. it will now be able to cooperate more closely with the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard corps in order to better support the national authorities responsible for coast guard missions.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency (efca) will be involved in managing migratory flows, because that is what disasters at sea are all about. this was confirmed by the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mr cadec (epp), on 17 february 2016. this extension of the mandate of the ceas is a step towards the creation of the european border and coast guard. finally, it is an indirect transfer of sovereignty: national resources will be 'coordinated' by the european union. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the migration crisis, the european commission proposed to establish coastguard cooperation by strengthening the missions of different european agencies, including the european fisheries control agency. the agency will therefore retain its core mandate but will extend its scope of action to coast guard functions, in cooperation with the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the community fisheries control agency. the aim of this proposal is to enable the three european agencies dealing with disasters at sea, among other things, to coordinate their operations at sea and to share information relevant to their actions. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency should be able to cooperate by pooling their capabilities and sharing surveillance information for maritime safety and security. the proposal will enable the three agencies to support national authorities and to act jointly and effectively in particular in the area of control, safety and surveillance operations by providing them with information and equipment and by ensuring the necessary coordination of multidimensional operations. this cooperation is essential in the current migration context, which requires the european union to provide material and human support.
in writing. ‒ there are now 316 national agencies in the european union for the management and control of fisheries areas. this causes many failures due to lack of communication and information. however, the report defends the use of the fisheries control agency to help manage migration flows as in the report on the european maritime safety agency. we are again dealing with a direct attack on the sovereignty of states. it is also worth noting that this will cost the taxpayer more (+7.5 million per year). i voted against in line with my previous votes.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the current proposal aims to guarantee greater independence for the supervisory committee. the purpose of this monitoring committee is to monitor the work of olaf. its ability to carry out this task depends on the proper functioning of its secretariat. the proposals in this report allow the secretariat greater autonomy without imposing additional costs on the functioning of the institutions. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. we need effective working relations between olaf and the monitoring committee for the protection of the eu's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the current proposal aims to guarantee more independence for the supervisory committee. the purpose of this monitoring committee is to monitor the work of olaf. its ability to carry out this task depends on the proper functioning of its secretariat. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ingeborg grässle report because it supports the objective of strengthening the independence of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) so that it can function more effectively while preserving its independence. i have already said in the committee on budgets that the proposed regulation does not require any new human or administrative resources and has no financial impact.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), by separating the budget lines of the olaf supervisory committee from that of the office itself. the commission therefore notes the interference with the proper functioning of olaf and declares that it will take the necessary measures to ensure the genuine independence of this body. that is why i voted for this text, however lenient it may be with the serious dysfunctions of this body.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). parliament and the olaf supervisory committee have repeatedly stressed the need to guarantee this independence (the role of the ipa and the need to separate the budget lines of the committee and its secretariat from those of olaf). the commission's proposal is therefore to have the secretariat of the supervisory committee provided by the commission (and not by olaf), to transfer the appropriations allocated to the secretariat to a commission budget line and finally to continue the powers of the olaf data protection officer to cover the data processed by the secretariat. this report aims to ensure greater independence for the monitoring committee and its ability to carry out this task depends on the proper functioning of its secretariat. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to guarantee the independence of the olaf supervisory committee from olaf itself. the secretariat of this committee was on a budget line of olaf which also had the power to appoint the members of the secretariat. the conflict of interest was obvious. the text now proposes to place this secretariat on a commission budget line and under its authority. at the same time, the data protection officer of olaf will continue to cover the data processed by this secretariat. for these reasons i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). to achieve this, the new regulation stipulates that the secretariat of the monitoring committee will now be provided by the commission and that the appropriations allocated to the secretariat will now be transferred to a commission budget line. the text calls for the european parliament to be kept informed of any future changes in the way olaf operates. because it is essential to guarantee the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat and to increase its efficiency, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is a very important body of the european union. olaf investigates fraud against the european budget, corruption and embezzlement within the european institutions. the olaf supervisory committee is responsible for monitoring the european office and ensuring that it exercises its prerogatives correctly. it is essential that the monitoring committee is independent of olaf in order to carry out its task properly. parliament has long called for this independence, given the problems of conflicts of interest that may have arisen. the amendment to the regulation allows for this independence. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the commission's proposal to address the administrative uncertainty of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the anti-fraud office. the aim of this proposal is to ensure the independence of the monitoring committee while ensuring easy contact with the other services. the european commission proposes that the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee be integrated into the commission's services. the council, parliament and the commission are considering a rapid adoption of the proposal. considering that the european institutions must promote the proper functioning of olaf in order to ensure its effectiveness in its specific tasks of combating fraud, i supported this report.
in writing. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the european commission to take measures to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the olaf (european anti-fraud office) supervisory committee. the european commission has made a proposal for a regulation to that effect, which is why i have supported this report. the secretariat of the monitoring committee will therefore be provided directly by the commission, and no longer by olaf. of course, the same rules of confidentiality as before will apply to secretariat staff.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the european parliament and the olaf supervisory committee informed the commission in 2013 and 2014 of the need to ensure this independence, in particular with regard to the role of the appointing authority (aipn) of the director-general of olaf vis-à-vis the secretariat. the latter, however, tends to create a conflict of interest. the same applies to the need to separate the budget lines for the supervisory committee and its secretariat from those for olaf. the commission considers that the secretariat of the supervisory committee will now be provided by the commission and not by olaf and that the appropriations allocated to the secretariat will be transferred to a commission budget line, in order to avoid any financial impact on the union budget. the responsibilities of the data protection officer of olaf will continue to cover data processed by the secretariat, in order to guarantee the confidentiality of such data. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the proposal aims to guarantee greater independence of the supervisory committee. the purpose of this monitoring committee is to monitor the work of olaf. its ability to carry out this task depends on the proper functioning of its secretariat.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs grässle's report, which aims to strengthen the independence of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) from the office itself. this committee is responsible for monitoring the way olaf conducts its investigations. no conflict of interest should therefore be suspected, as this monitoring should prevent questionable behaviour by investigators. the committee's report on the way in which the investigations into the alleged corruption of commissioner dalli had been conducted was, according to ms grässler, who was already in charge of the file in parliament, 'an impressive document of breaches of the law, violations of fundamental rights and the smoky investigative work of the director-general of olaf'. this eventually cost the said director, giovanni kessler, his diplomatic immunity last march, so that he could be heard by the belgian justice. but this report had come afterwards: the scandal was so great that it was no longer possible to hide the body under the carpet. the monitoring of olaf's activities must also be carried out during investigations. it is neither a european prosecutor's office nor a european police force. but it has the power to shatter lives.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the european parliament and the olaf supervisory committee have repeatedly informed the commission in 2013 and 2014 of the need to guarantee this independence, in particular with regard to: the role of the appointing authority (aipn) of the director-general of olaf vis-à-vis the secretariat, which tends to create a conflict of interest; the need to separate the budget lines of the supervisory committee and its secretariat from those of olaf. the european parliament is cautiously proposing to be kept informed of any future changes to the way olaf operates. the current proposal aims to guarantee greater independence for the supervisory committee. the purpose of this monitoring committee is to monitor the work of olaf. his ability to carry out this mission depends on the proper functioning of his secretariat, and i can only be satisfied with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ingeborg gräβle on the secretariat of the monitoring committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the text calls for a purely administrative change, aimed at guaranteeing the independence of the secretariat of the anti-fraud office's monitoring committee and linking this body and its budget to the european commission. this organisational change will allow for better coordination between the actions of olaf and the commission. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure the independence of the secretariat of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) so that it can function more effectively. in the past, parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it strengthens the independence of the olaf (european anti-fraud office) monitoring committee. it was necessary because olaf has committed many abuses, including persecuting fn meps in the so-called affair of the fictitious assistants. the diplomatic immunity of the director of olaf was lifted at the request of the belgian judiciary!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee. the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the european parliament and the olaf supervisory committee have repeatedly informed the commission of the need to guarantee this independence. the commission seems to have taken note of these requirements in its proposal. it stipulates that the secretariat of the supervisory committee will now be provided by the commission (and no longer by olaf), that the appropriations allocated to the secretariat will be transferred to a commission budget line (in order to avoid any financial impact on the union budget), and that the responsibilities of the olaf data protection officer continue to cover data processed by the secretariat in order to guarantee the confidentiality of such data.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is itself monitored by another body, the olaf monitoring committee and its secretariat. the independence of this body from olaf is necessary for it to carry out its tasks. the report therefore proposes that the secretariat of the monitoring committee be provided by the commission (and no longer by olaf) and that the appropriations obtained by the secretariat be transferred to a budget line of the commission. parliament also called for it to be kept informed of any future changes in the way olaf operates, thus calling for transparency. i support this text by voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the text aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), following the remarks made by parliament and the olaf supervisory committee in 2013 and 2014. the text provides that the secretariat of the supervisory committee will be provided by the commission (and no longer by olaf), that the appropriations allocated to the secretariat will be transferred to a commission budget line (in order to avoid any financial impact on the union budget) and that the powers of the olaf data protection officer will continue to cover the data processed by the secretariat, in order to guarantee the confidentiality of these data. we welcome these measures to ensure greater independence for the monitoring committee, through the proper functioning of its secretariat.
in writing. ‒ the monitoring committee, which monitors the work of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), has been warning for several years now of the risks of conflicts of interest and fraud. the director of olaf is responsible for appointments, promotions and transfers for these two bodies. we also know that olaf has many difficulties and that the member states have complained about the quality of its work. the report proposes to create a separate budget line from olaf for the monitoring committee. it thus ensures that its secretariat can act on instructions from the supervisory committee alone. parliament also asked for guarantees of independence from the commission. i am voting in favour in order to support the substantial work to be done by this body in the light of the limited efforts made to recover tax fraud in the union.
in writing. ‒ the current proposal aims to guarantee more independence for the supervisory committee. the purpose of the committee is to monitor the work of olaf. its ability to carry out this task depends on the proper functioning of its secretariat. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the current proposal aims to guarantee more independence for the supervisory committee. the purpose of this monitoring committee is to monitor the work of olaf. its ability to carry out this task depends on the proper functioning of its secretariat. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to ensure the independence of the secretariat of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) monitoring committee so that it can work more effectively. this text follows on from those adopted by the european parliament, in particular in the report on the discharge for the financial year 2013 and in 2014 in the resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament and the olaf supervisory committee have repeatedly informed the commission of the need to guarantee the independence of olaf, in particular:- the role of the appointing authority (aipn);- the separation of the budget lines of the supervisory committee (and its secretariat) from olaf. the commission seems to have taken partly note of these requirements. it proposes that:- the secretariat of the monitoring committee should now be provided by the commission (and no longer by olaf); - the appropriations allocated to the secretariat are transferred to a commission budget line (in order to avoid any financial impact on the union budget); - the powers of the olaf data protection officer continue to cover data processed by the secretariat, in order to guarantee the confidentiality of such data. the european parliament is cautious in wanting to be kept informed of any future changes in the way olaf operates. the current proposal aims to guarantee greater independence for the supervisory committee, which is responsible for monitoring olaf's work. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to guarantee the independence of the secretariat of the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the secretariat of the monitoring committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the aim of this text is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) so that it can function more effectively. in the past, the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat. the transparency and efficiency of european audit bodies must be at the heart of our concerns, since they are bound to citizens by an obligation to produce results.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office following a strong suspicion of a conflict of interest between the appointing authority (aipn), which is the director-general of olaf, and the secretariat of the supervisory committee. this independence is necessary because the supervisory committee inherently monitors olaf's work and must therefore be fully independent. this text is conservative and calls for the european parliament to be informed of any further changes in the way olaf operates. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ this report makes recommendations with a view to the revision of the union's future financial framework (mff 2014-2020). introducing the idea of increasing the union's budget, through the usual criticisms of the lack of funds, he suggests not to reduce the union's financial commitments (investments, subsidies), but to increase its appropriations. the report justifies this bias by the success of european policies: the fight against unemployment, support for the agricultural world. two questions arise: what would unemployment rates be like without this massive financial support for countries in difficulty and what is the logic of supporting an agricultural sector with subsidies when, on the other hand, it is deprived of opportunities (russian embargo). although it highlights the large amounts of arrears suffered by universities and smes (significant delays in payment) which have not been paid by the union, this text remains a litany of requests for increased appropriations, without any serious consistency. in addition, it is not interested in anticipating the uk's departure from the union (a 15% drop in future revenue).
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate my colleague isabelle thomas on her work. this report highlights the huge gap between the union's needs and its means. youth unemployment, migration, refugees, cop 21, agricultural crises, underinvestment, internal security... the current budget has been overwhelmed by the new priorities that have emerged since 2013. the revision will have to be translated into additional means to enable europe to meet these challenges.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls in every paragraph how important the union's budget is and that an increase in appropriations (and in parallel in the union's revenue through a contribution from the states) is necessary. however, the union budget does not have to deal with these problems, either because it created them, or because it is incapable of responding to them by ideology, or because it does not have to deal with problems which are the sole responsibility of the sovereignty of states. i therefore voted against this report, which also calls for the creation of a european tax.
in writing. ‒ our financial framework is outdated. the thomas/olbrycht report is moving in the right direction by calling for a legislative review of the current framework and more flexibility in its use. the european union is undergoing major changes which must be reflected in the way we manage its budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which aims to make recommendations for the post-election review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the review of budgetary ceilings in the light of the serious crises that the union is now facing. the report calls for an increase in the member states' contributions to the european budget and, paradoxically, for greater independence for brussels in the management of this budget. it also welcomed the way in which the union had managed the current year's budget, citing as evidence its alleged successes in the areas of security and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this report on the preparation of the post-electoral review of the mff 2014-2020 concerns parliament's recommendations in advance of the commission proposal. in reality, it is a long lament about the ceilings which lead to residues that need to be liquidated, especially in response to the serious crises the european union is going through. the report begins by complaining about the low level of investment in the union's countries, and then welcomes the union's work on terrorism and internal security or on resolving the agricultural crisis. the european budget needs more and more money and resources. the report also proposes the creation of a european tax and wants surpluses to be systematically kept and reused by the union the following year, rather than returning the surplus, as is currently the case, after deduction of the contributions of the states to the union budget. fortunately, it warns against the extravagant amount of arrears (which amounted to €24.7 billion at the end of 2014). finally, nothing is proposed to deal with the decline in future revenue following brexit. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report develops the idea that investment in the member states is insufficient to address the serious problems faced in agriculture, migration, internal security and youth unemployment. on the contrary, it praises the effectiveness of the union's role in this area. the commission is proposing to abolish a european tax, with any surpluses carried over to subsequent years instead of being deducted from national contributions. it considers that it would be better policy to consider a reduction in the union's expenditure and role following the uk's departure and the end of its contribution. i also voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make recommendations for the post-electoral review of the multiannual financial framework 2014/2020 to address the crises currently facing the member states of the european union, in particular the migration crisis, the terrorist threat and the agricultural crisis. while the european union has a heavy responsibility on all these issues, this report considers that only the union is able to respond effectively to each of these crises and that it is therefore essential to increase its budget. it is against this background that this report advocates the creation of a european tax and recommends the reuse by the union of future budget surpluses. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ as provided for in the regulation, the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is to be assessed at mid-term. the need for this clause is all the more important in view of the migration, agricultural and security challenges facing the union. to this end, the commission will have to make a proposal to adjust the multiannual financial framework to these elements. this report constitutes a recommendation from the european parliament to the commission on potential changes to the financial framework. the migration, agricultural and security crises were not foreseen when the 2014-2020 financial framework was established in 2013. the latter must therefore be reassessed accordingly. we must respect our commitments to budgetary rigor and financial stability. however, we must be politically realistic in the face of the crises of recent years. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in preparation for the revision of the cfp, the european budget for the period 2014-2020, the european parliament was called upon to adopt its priorities for the reassessment of the financial balances of the various european policies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary policy in the member states. as such, i have made a special effort to ensure that the appropriations allocated to agriculture under budget heading 2 are maintained and that sufficient margins are maintained to deal with agricultural crises. it also believes that in a context of budgetary appropriations being reduced, there is a need to do double duty: aid to eliminate stocks on agricultural markets could usefully find a second use by helping to feed the poor in europe and, in particular, migrants. considering that the mid-term review of the mff is essential to enable the union to respond effectively to these new challenges, but also to resolve the recurring debates on own resources and unpaid debts, i supported this report.
in writing. this text contains the european parliament's recommendations in advance of the commission's proposal for the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. i supported this text, which sets out the serious crises europe is currently facing: the migration crisis, the fight against terrorism and the security threat to europe, the agricultural crisis, economic and labour market difficulties. it is therefore crucial that europe presents a fiscal policy that is adapted and up to the challenges it faces.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make recommendations for the post-election review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, concerning the ceilings that lead to residues to be liquidated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing financial instruments to include the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european regional development fund (erdf). the text calls for more investment in eu countries and therefore calls for an increase in commitment appropriations. finally, the report again calls for the creation of a european tax and recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu in the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the contributions of the states to the eu budget. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: rather than increasing the union's revenue and expenditure forever, we should try to anticipate the uk's departure (and thus the sharp drop in union revenue of 15%) by a drastic reduction in expenditure and the role of the union.
in writing. ‒ although i know that this report has cost its authors long hours of work and that it was adopted in committee well before 23 june, i cannot explain why, despite the request of some colleagues, the debate has been continued. it is absurd to vote today on a general revision of the union's budgetary framework in a text which does not mention the announced departure of the united kingdom, a net contributor to that budget and whose position is still uncertain, given the contradictions in each other's statements, as to whether or not it will be able to vote on this revision, which must take place before its actual departure. even beyond the content, which as usual calls for ever more expenditure despite the level of unpaid debts, which suggests a european tax, which calls for priority reorientations in areas where brussels has little or no competence and even less usefulness and efficiency, this formal defect is in itself a reason for rejection.
in writing. the limits of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 are currently reached. its revision is inevitable and urgent. that is why i gave my full support to the report by my colleague, mrs isabelle thomas. the report highlights the huge gap between the union's needs and its resources. youth unemployment, migration, refugees, cop 21, agricultural crises, underinvestment, internal security, territorial, social and economic cohesion...: the current budget has been overtaken by the new priorities that have emerged since 2013. its review is essential, in particular to compensate for budget cuts in horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, and to finance the youth employment initiative. the revision will have to be translated into additional means to enable europe to meet these challenges. how did you do that? by establishing own resources in the budget. in a europe that is hesitating, doubting and waiting for a new direction, this report makes a clear and lucid diagnosis and proposes concrete answers. in this revision, the european parliament shows its unity and takes the initiative to build a coherent budgetary framework adapted to current issues and challenges.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make recommendations for the post-election review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. it is a long lament about ceilings that lead to waste to be disposed of. it therefore calls for a review of the mff in 2016 to respond to the serious crises facing the union, including the agricultural crisis, the migrant crisis, internal security, unemployment, etc. in short, this report reminds us in every paragraph of the importance of the union's budget and of the need to increase appropriations (and, at the same time, eu revenue through contributions from the member states). however, the union budget does not have to deal with these problems, either because it created them, or because it is incapable of responding to them by ideology, or because it does not have to deal with problems which are the sole responsibility of the sovereignty of states. rather than increasing the union's revenue and expenditure forever, it would be appropriate to anticipate the departure of the united kingdom (and thus the sharp drop in union revenue of 15%) by a drastic reduction in the union's expenditure and role. i naturally objected to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas on the preparation of the post-election revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the report, which builds on the european commission's proposals, sets out parliament's position on the adjustments to be made to take account of the different crises and the evolution of priorities since the adoption of the multiannual financial framework in 2013. the report recommends, in particular, raising the funding ceilings for certain programmes, such as the youth employment initiative. it stressed the need for stability and the need not to reduce the amount of pre-allocated national envelopes. it is a pragmatic text that underlines the need to simplify the way european policies work, which is why i welcome its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which analyses the first two years of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) and assesses the budgetary responses to new policy challenges such as the migration crisis, low levels of investment and youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report for two fundamental reasons. firstly, because he wants to increase the budget for the mff (multiannual financial framework) to take account of the migration crisis. secondly, because he wants to introduce a european tax!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the preparation of the post-election review of the mff 2014-2020. this report recalls in every paragraph how important the eu budget is and that an increase in appropriations (and in parallel eu revenue through a contribution from the states) is necessary. however, the eu budget does not have to deal with these problems, either because it created them, or because it is incapable of responding to them by ideology, or because it does not have to deal with problems which are the sole responsibility of the sovereign states. finally, the report calls for the creation of a european tax and recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu in the following year, instead of allowing a reduction in the contributions of the states to the eu budget. rather than increasing eu revenue and expenditure forever, we should instead try to anticipate the uk's departure (and thus the sharp drop in eu revenue of 15%) by a drastic reduction in eu expenditure and role.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, in view of the start of the post-electoral review for 2014-2020, calls for an early analysis of the multiannual financial framework for 2016. he said the serious crises affecting the eu (agriculture, migration, internal security, unemployment) required a re-adaptation of the eu's role. it recommended, in general terms, an increase in appropriations in all the areas concerned. it also calls for the creation of a european tax which would increase the burden on taxpayers' income. it is only reasonable to warn against the exorbitant amount of arrears (which amounted to €24.7 billion at the end of 2014) and weigh on the sme providers, universities... it would be wiser for the eu to work on anticipating the uk's departure, which will reduce its revenue by 15% and thus reduce eu spending and role. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ the union must react quickly to unforeseeable crises (migration, agriculture, financial crises, etc.) which assail it, hence the need to adopt a budgetary strategy by setting up sufficient resources and a permanent crisis reserve in the european budget. the multiannual financial framework (mff) should therefore be made more flexible. the resolution also calls for more discussion on own resources and recommends that the mff mid-term review be an opportunity to prevent recurrent payment arrears by providing a clear strategy to address all these payment needs. the text also calls on the european commission to inform the european parliament as soon as possible of the budgetary implications of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the union.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the various crises it is facing and the economic, social and humanitarian challenges it is facing, the european union is sometimes accused of being powerless. this is true at least in terms of resources: the european union is sorely lacking in resources. as a socialist, i am not in favour of limiting the eu budget to 1% of gdp. the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 was far too narrow in this respect. the socialists had nevertheless obtained a seven-year mid-term review clause for this budget. the olbrycht-thomas report allows the european parliament to detail and strengthen its proposals ahead of the review by the european commission, in order to obtain the revision of the cfp. in the face of the new challenges of migration, asylum and terrorism, there is a particular need to raise the ceilings on security and citizenship, just as there is an urgent need to consider the creation of the union's own resources on the basis of innovative solutions, such as a carbon tax or a financial transaction tax. this report is part of a vision of europe which gives priority to intervention over integration, and must provide the means to do so. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ after having trampled on parliament's requests in 2013 during the discussion of the eu's financial framework for 2014-2020, the council and the commission agreed to discuss a revision to take account of the 2014 european elections. it took two years for this discussion to begin. it does not commit itself to anything: after taking stock by the end of 2016, the commission may or may not present a proposal for revision. this budgetary framework was doomed from the start, since it cut 50 billion from the previous 2007-2013 budget, while the eu population increased by 10 million inhabitants! the union has a budget at a historically low level, less than 1% of its wealth, whereas the treaties provide for 1.27%. the report rightly notes that such a framework is inadequate to the scale of the crises facing the union and out of touch with its stated priorities. the call for revision of this framework, however, is not accompanied by any quantified proposals. and it is all the less credible when its authors vote every year for austerity measures that confirm the failure of the current budgetary framework. i vote against this false attempt at revision.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls in every paragraph how important the eu budget is and that an increase in appropriations (and in parallel eu revenue through a contribution from the states) is necessary. however, the union budget does not have to deal with these problems, either because it created them, or because it is incapable of responding to them by ideology, or because it does not have to deal with problems which are the sole responsibility of the sovereignty of states. i therefore voted against this report, which also calls for the creation of a european tax.
in writing. ‒ rather than increasing the eu's revenue and expenditure forever, we should instead try to anticipate the uk's departure (and thus the sharp drop in eu revenue of 15%) by a drastic reduction in eu expenditure and role. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the preparation of the post-election review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i particularly supported the provisions in this report which state that the management of the migrant crisis must not penalise policies in other areas, and in particular those which play a key role in addressing the root causes of this crisis. without development aid from the european union in the areas of origin of migrants, the wave of migration we are facing will not dry up.
in writing. ‒ this report reminds us in every paragraph how important the eu budget is and how much more money (and more eu revenue through contributions from the states) is needed. i believe that the union's budget does not have to deal with problems which it has created, which it is unable to solve by ideology or which are the sole responsibility of the sovereign states. finally, the text calls for the creation of a european tax and recommends that any future surpluses be automatically reused by the eu in the following year instead of allowing a reduction in the contributions of the states to the eu budget. the only positive point is that it warns against the extravagant amount of arrears (which amounted to €24.7 billion at the end of 2014). this situation is costly for smes that are eu beneficiaries, but also for universities, etc. rather than increasing eu revenue and expenditure forever, we should try to anticipate the uk's departure (and thus the 15% drop in eu revenue) by a drastic reduction in eu expenditure and role. i shall naturally vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which sets out the guidelines that the european commission will have to take into account in its proposal for the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, which will have to be made before the end of 2016. it is essential that the european union update its long-term spending plan in order to deal effectively with the challenges it faces: immigration, border protection, jobs and growth. this mid-term review of the budget shows how useful the european parliament is in guiding the work of the european commission. the cfp must be simplified and made more flexible so that european citizens can see the usefulness of actions at european level to respond to the crises we are facing. however, it is also important to note that it is the member states, through their financial contributions to the eu budget, which control the means available to achieve the objectives assigned to the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's recommendations on the preparation of the post-election revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. a review of the mff is necessary to take stock of the budgetary implications of the challenges that have emerged over the last two years, such as the migrant and refugee crisis, youth unemployment, the crisis in the agricultural sector, environmental challenges and internal security to respond to the terrorist threat. since the ceilings of the mff are insufficient to cope with these crises, the union has had to resort to special instruments, the proliferation of which has created a problem of accountability and democratic control. we recommend, in particular, the creation of a permanent crisis reserve of the union in the budget to avoid the use of ad hoc instruments, the increase of the financial envelope of the flexibility instrument and the emergency aid reserve, or the improvement and simplification of the functioning of the cfp and the reduction of the administrative burden. it is also important to emphasise the importance of implementing measures to avoid the accumulation of an outstanding backlog of invoices and thus prevent a new payment crisis at the end of the mff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by isabelle thomas and jan olbrycht on the revision of the european union's multiannual financial framework (mff). in the context of the multiple crises we are experiencing, funding for ambitious public policies is a priority. this report highlights the inadequacy of the eu budget to deal with these crises. it is outdated and must be reoriented towards the objectives of growth and jobs, solidarity with refugees, preservation of the environment and securing our borders. but above all, at the time of brexit, the question of the eu's own resources is once again being raised. we must break the budgetary impasse and provide the common budget with sound resources, commensurate with our ambitions. if we are to rebuild europe, this is one of the priority projects we must tackle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the review of the functioning of the multiannual financial framework (mff) before the end of 2016 and in view of the commission's proposal. the text thus takes stock of the first years of operation and of the serious crises and new policy initiatives which the union budget has had to face. these include the migrant and refugee crisis, youth unemployment, the agricultural crisis and internal security. in order to meet these urgent financing needs, it is necessary to make greater use of flexibility mechanisms and special instruments than ever before. the text also stresses that a genuine mid-term review of the mff is essential if the union is to meet the many challenges ahead and meet its policy objectives. it is also important and necessary that the budget anticipates the consequences of brexit and that a precise analysis takes place. finally, the report recalls the work in progress on the thorough reform of the own resources system, in which parliament has taken part through the high level group.
in writing. - youth unemployment, the refugee crisis, the cop 21, the agricultural crisis, internal security... the new challenges facing europe over the past two years have demonstrated the under-scale nature of the multiannual financial framework (mff). this report, which i am presenting with my colleague jan olbrycht, is the first step towards a revision that is indispensable if europe is to rise to these challenges. we are defending the need for a budget that is in line with the eu's promises and that puts an end to the deadly logic of dressing paul by undressing peter. we call for the full reinstatement of the horizon 2020 programme and the connecting europe facility, funding for the fight against youth unemployment, amounting to €3 billion per year, and for internal security and for the commitments made at cop 21. in a europe that is in a state of uncertainty and is waiting for a new direction to be proposed, this report makes a straightforward and unvarnished diagnosis and proposes concrete responses. the european parliament is demonstrating its unity and its responsibility for building a coherent budgetary framework adapted to the needs of the time.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to make some recommendations for the post-election review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. he gives a very idealized description of the use of the union's budgets, stating in particular that the eu contributes a great deal to the fight against unemployment in the member states and that it needs even more funding to make things better. every paragraph of the text is a request for new funding. the report also warns of the staggering amount of arrears: €24.7 billion, a situation that directly affects eu service-providing smes. it is a good thing he did not ask for additional contributions to remedy this situation. the most scandalous point of this report is the idea of a new european tax to finance this extravagant political project of enlargement of the european union. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european parliament sets out its priorities and the main issues to influence the revision of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) (2014-2020) governing the union's budgets until 2020. a compromise was reached between the main groups in the european parliament to ask for an overall increase in the mff. the still unannounced brexit leaves a lot of uncertainty about the eu's budgetary framework. my group has tabled several amendments, in particular to incorporate the result of the uk referendum and to stress that european citizens expect concrete decisions from the european parliament in the social field and reject austerity measures. we have called for measures to be taken to end all economic and commercial relations with economic actors who trade with the islamic state group. finally, i welcome the adoption of an amendment to support the peace process in ireland. while the report does have some positive points, such as calling for additional means to tackle the root causes of the current migration crisis, it remains in line with the eu's overall approach. i chose to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ we must protect whistleblowers and punish tax evaders. the european commission must be guided by a simple principle: tax must be paid where profits are made, to achieve a simple objective: to restore equality before tax. in this report we have drawn up a new set of recommendations to make corporate taxation fairer and more ethical. we call on the commission to propose without delay a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the most direct and effective tool to prevent aggressive tax optimisation by multinationals and tax dumping by member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, despite the fact that there are more reservations than on taxe 1, the findings and objectives are consensual, the challenge of aggressive tax optimisation remains a major one for french public finances. the means which may be used are ultimately subject to the veto of the member states. the report reaffirms the european union's willingness to take a firm stand against this problem, where multinational companies evade taxation through ingenious schemes exploiting flaws in bilateral agreements or the generosity of tax laws in our neighbours. we have always expressed our support for all the observations and the principle of a strong reaction.
in writing. ‒ the final report of the taxe 2 committee, which was set up to formulate proposals against aggressive tax optimisation, is to be voted on. the commission has had a positive effect in this respect, inter alia by allowing a number of companies to be heard on their tax arrangements. the report also reaffirms the union's willingness to react strongly to any attempts at tax evasion. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is the final report of the taxe 2 special committee, which extended the committee set up in february 2015 to formulate proposals against aggressive tax optimisation. the taxe 2 committee was able to hear a number of additional companies to explain their arrangements, to obtain from the states and the european commission documents they had not delivered and to delve into certain issues. the report proposes to give real account of the problem of multinationals evading tax by tax optimisation (sometimes with the complicity of the states). unfortunately, i note some steps towards an ever stronger eu, for example a harmonised corporate tax and a consolidated isi base. overall, taxation is an area where the eu has not proved itself and which should be the responsibility of the states. other points raise reservations, such as the desire to create a european-level withholding tax. finally, pragmatism in the field of national public finances encourages us to accept the pooling of certain solutions, while reaffirming the unquestioned maintenance of unanimity among the member states for european tax regulation. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report confirms the eu's willingness to tackle the problem of tax optimisation of large groups following the additional hearings carried out in the context of taxe 2. even if one can smile at such a mobilization, when one knows the role that the current president of the commission may have played in such sometimes confidential arrangements, it remains the case that france has everything to gain from such an orientation because of its lack of fiscal attractiveness. while i remain committed to the permanence of the rule of unanimity of the member states for tax regulation, i am not opposed to certain provisions being brought together. therefore, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the taxe 2 special committee has made it possible to hear many companies on their complex tax arrangements and has obtained from the member states and the european commission documents essential for the formulation of recommendations to combat aggressive tax optimisation. on this subject, we share the european union's determination to eradicate practices that allow multinational companies to evade taxation through ingenious schemes exploiting the weaknesses of bilateral agreements and the generosity of tax laws in some member states. although i am opposed to the harmonisation of the corporate tax base, which contributes to weakening the budgetary sovereignty of the member states, i voted in favour of this text, which has the merit of effectively tackling evasion, fraud and optimisation by defining common tax rules.
in writing. ‒ the second special committee on tax returns (taxe 2) was set up to enable meps to continue their work on taxation in europe. the number of documents made available to members by the european commission was indeed very large. in this report, the european parliament welcomes the tax transparency package proposed by the commission. it is a good start in the fight against tax evasion in the union. it is essential that multinational companies as well as individuals pay their taxes where they do business. the luxleaks and panama papers scandals have exposed some of the shortcomings of european tax law. the mandate of the committee on taxation has come to an end and we will now continue our work in the committee of inquiry into the panama papers, of which i am a member. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is the final report of the special committee on tax remissions and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe 2). this report aims to examine ways of putting an end to unfair tax practices and thus combating tax evasion in europe. considering that this report is an extension of the report of the first special committee taxe 1 and that the european union needs to implement reforms in order to combat tax evasion and tax rewriting, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ this text continues and elaborates on the roadmap drawn up by the taxe 1 committee (initiated in the european parliament in the wake of the luxleaks scandal). the aim is to tackle the loopholes in which multinationals operate and to restore equality in taxation. it proposes a series of recommendations, including the rapid establishment of a common consolidated corporate tax base. it stresses the need for a list of tax havens with sanctions, for strict control of tax advisory firms and for measures to eliminate tax opacity (european register of final beneficiaries, public country-by-country reporting, etc.). i also welcome the criticism of the tax credit system in this text. these tax schemes too often allow large groups to recover considerable expenditure under the label of 'research and development' in order to maximise their tax relief. in this case, i advocate support through grants to better control the real destination of public money allocated to r&d.
‒ tax dumping by multinational companies represents a significant loss of revenue for the states. it is damaging to economic activity and disadvantaging the smes that make up the european economic fabric. it is unacceptable that a multinational company pays 30% less tax than a company established in one state! the european tax system must be fairer and clearer. this is why our parliament calls for the fight against tax fraud and evasion to be stepped up, by introducing sanctions against non-cooperative jurisdictions, but also directly against banks and companies. it also recommends that measures be taken to increase transparency. this is crucial because it is the secrecy surrounding fraudulent companies that allows them to prosper. the establishment of a blacklist of tax havens and a european register of beneficial owners are essential for a future european legislative initiative in this area. these provisions provide a basis for more effective action against tax evasion and aggressive planning by certain companies. however, european leaders must bear in mind that effective european tax legislation cannot be achieved without further harmonisation of national legislation. it's an emergency.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the final report of the taxe 2 special committee against aggressive tax optimisation, which has made it possible to hear a number of companies on their arrangements. it was thus possible to obtain from the states and the european commission documents which they had not delivered and to examine the mechanisms of patent boxes or the liability and conflicts of interest of consultancy firms in the assembly process. the report reaffirms the european union's commitment to combating this type of tax evasion, fraud or tax optimisation. a country like france, whose tax attractiveness is low because of unstable legislation and high compulsory levies, has much to gain from common tax rules. it is regrettable that the commission should be asked to create a european-level withholding tax, to give a commission body the task of monitoring national tax policies, or to create a register of the assets of individuals and companies. while defending the rule of unanimity of the member states for the regulation of the union in tax matters, i voted for this text which is in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ vote for: we think it is consistent to continue supporting the text without making any legislative progress, while voting against a number of proposals that are ambiguous or too much in the direction of integration.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the taxe 2 special committee report for the same reasons as i voted for the taxe 1 committee report. created after the luxleaks scandal, which revealed the exorbitant tax benefits granted by luxembourg to certain companies at the expense of tax revenues from other member states, these two commissions, whose successive work spanned a year, helped to better identify the amoral, if not illegal, practices used by multinationals to avoid tax. i do not agree with all the proposals in the text, but i support the principle. a country like mine, france, has much to gain from common tax rules against tax evasion, fraud and optimisation... it is true that the current government, which is surprised that the city banks are reluctant to move to paris after brexit, has done much to make it a poor or even non-fiscal attraction. it is time he thought about softening the fiscal hell that is ruining the middle classes and jobs.
in writing. ending tax injustice: this is what guided my vote in favour of the final report containing the recommendations of the special committee taxe, set up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. the report sets out a new set of recommendations to make corporate taxation fairer and more ethical. it calls, inter alia, for the immediate protection of whistleblowers, including from legal prosecution, for a public country-by-country accounting of multinationals, for a european public register of beneficial owners of companies, for a blacklist of tax havens, for sanctions against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, for action against the abuse of tax regimes favourable to patents (intellectual property income), and finally for a withholding tax on profits leaving the union. in particular, the commission is called upon to propose without delay a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the most direct and effective tool to prevent aggressive tax optimisation by multinationals and tax dumping by member states. with my colleagues, i will continue to act as a catalyst for europe to put an end to fraud, tax evasion and tax optimisation.
in writing. ‒ taxe 2 has enabled a number of additional companies to be heard on their arrangements, to obtain from the states and the european commission documents they had not provided and to delve into certain issues, such as patent box mechanisms or the liability and conflicts of interest of consultancy firms in arrangements. the report reaffirms the european union's willingness to take a firm stand on the problem of multinational companies evading taxation by ingenious schemes exploiting the flaws in bilateral agreements or the generosity of tax laws in our neighbours. we have always expressed our support for all the observations and the principle of a strong reaction. pragmatism for national public finances encourages acceptance of the pooling of certain solutions, while reaffirming the uncontested maintenance of unanimity among member states for the regulation of the union in tax matters. i therefore thought it was consistent to support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues michael theurer and jeppe kofod of the taxe 2 select committee on tax rulings and other measures having equivalent effect. 18 months ago, the luxleaks case reignited debate about controversial practices in some states, such as tax-advantaged agreements. this led to the creation of the taxe committee in the european parliament in 2015. as his term of office draws to a close, a taxe 2 committee has been established to ensure that europe can continue to tackle tax evasion by multinationals effectively. in my view, this means fighting unfair tax competition, talking to the united states and improving the exchange of information between european states. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is in the direction of fiscal justice, fairness and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final recommendations of the taxe 2 committee to make corporate taxation fairer and clearer. the text calls for the creation of a european public register of beneficial owners of companies, a blacklist of tax havens and a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it seeks to combat tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe 2). the report reaffirms the will to tackle the problem of multinational companies evading taxation by ingenious schemes exploiting flaws in bilateral agreements or the generosity of tax laws in our neighbours. i have always expressed my support for all the findings and the principle of a strong reaction. a country like france, where the tax attractiveness is low due to unstable legislation and mandatory levies among the highest in the oecd, has much to gain from common tax rules against evasion, fraud and optimisation. several points will raise more reservations: the desire to create a withholding tax at european level, the desire to give a commission body a mission of observing national tax policies. the idea of creating a register of the assets of individuals and companies is absurd and is the subject of an enf amendment.
i voted for this report. it is designed to combat fraud by multinational companies, which is the result of inadequate and heterogeneous legislation. certain solutions are not satisfactory, such as the definition of tax havens at european level or the protection of whistleblowers. however, other proposals would be more advantageous, such as common tax rules against tax evasion and fraud. the end of banking secrecy in europe three years ago has already made it possible to generate substantial revenue for france.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this report closes the work of the special committee taxe, set up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. less than a week after the convictions of those who raised the alarm, this text allows the european parliament to put forward proposals to end the impunity of tax fraudsters. among its many recommendations, the report proposes whistleblower protection, country-by-country accounting reporting, a european public register of beneficial owners of companies, a blacklist of tax havens, sanctions against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers, tax rules for good governance in all eu trade agreements and withholding tax on profits leaving the eu. as a socialist, i am in favour of a fairer and more ethical taxation of companies. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this is the final report of the taxe 2 special committee, which follows up on the special committee set up in february 2015 to formulate proposals against aggressive tax optimisation. some provisions of this text, which is broad in the sense of greater tax harmonization between member states, call for certain reservations. in particular, this concerns the harmonisation of the corporate tax base, leading eventually to a distribution of tax revenue according to the methods of calculation by country, the possible creation of a withholding tax at european level and the establishment of a european observatory of the tax policies of the member states. however, pragmatism must prevail: the legal loopholes allowing certain multinationals to abuse the diversity of national tax systems must be reduced.
in writing. ‒ the european union, as we know, often gets the battle wrong when it spends more time recommending budget cuts than fighting inequalities. if there is one area where this is not the case, it is taxation. the union's real progress in this area over the past two years is worthy of note. at the instigation of the european parliament, in the econ committee, in the special committee taxe 1 and now taxe 2, a real roadmap was drawn up to correct the shortcomings of multinationals and restore equality in taxation. with a clear reminder of the demands we have been making since the beginning of the legislature, such as an immediate and comprehensive common consolidated corporate tax base, a list of tax havens with sanctions, rigorous control of tax advisory firms, and detailing all the future steps to be taken to remove tax opacity (european register of final beneficiaries, country-by-country reporting to the public, etc.), and despite some regrets, such as the lack of a proposal for an effective minimum tax rate for multinationals, the taxe 2 report is a solid living document proposed to the commission and reminded to the member states. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concludes the work of the second taxe committee, which studied tax returns in the context of the fight against tax evasion. clearly, this is the conclusion reached in the luxleaks case, i.e. luxembourg's practice of savage tax dumping for the benefit of large multinational firms, particularly under the authority of its former prime minister juncker, now president of the commission. a case in which the text merely states cautiously that the european union is concerned by allegations that luxembourg would issue oral submissions in order to circumvent its obligation to exchange information under the administrative cooperation directive . however, the report stresses the need to propose as soon as possible a clear legal framework to ensure effective protection of whistleblowers . the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. i abstain from encouraging these few elements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, despite more reservations than on taxe 1, the findings and objectives are consensual, and the challenge of aggressive tax optimisation remains a major one for french public finances. the means which may be used remain subject, in the end, to the veto of the member states. the report reaffirms the european union's willingness to take a firm stand on the problem of multinational companies evading taxation by ingenious schemes exploiting the flaws in bilateral agreements or the generosity of tax laws in our neighbours. we have always expressed our support for all the observations and the principle of a strong reaction.
in writing. ‒ pragmatism for national public finances leads us to accept the pooling of certain solutions, while reaffirming the uncontested maintenance of unanimity among member states for the regulation of the union in tax matters. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by the taxe 2 special committee on tax rulings and other measures having equivalent effect. the text stresses in particular the crucial role played by whistleblowers in the disclosure of certain scandals and that they must be able to benefit from legally organised protection.
in writing. ‒ the report reaffirms the eu's commitment to tackling the problem of tax evasion, whereby multinational companies evade tax by using ingenious schemes that exploit flaws in bilateral agreements or the generosity of tax laws in certain countries. i have always expressed our support for all the observations and the principle of a strong reaction. the suggestions made are some of the steps taken towards more union which leave me more doubtful. but i am prepared to accept the pooling of some solutions, since the rule of unanimity of the member states for the regulation of the union in tax matters and the possibility of vetoing the means implemented to combat tax optimisation are maintained. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the taxe 2 special committee, set up on 2 december 2015 to examine harmful corporate tax regimes and practices in certain european countries and at international level, in order to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance. the work of this committee has highlighted the need for a legislative package to combat tax evasion, addressing the optimisation techniques and the legal gaps that allow them. the members of the taxe 2 committee also stressed the importance of revising the directive on administrative cooperation between national authorities of the member states. in addition, the key role of whistleblowers should be welcomed and we call for a harmonised legal regime to clearly define whistleblower status and provide for an adequate level of protection. the fight against tax evasion and tax optimisation is a constant battle, which will ensure that our companies that respect the rules do not suffer unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. the panama papers scandal has once again demonstrated the need to combat tax fraud and evasion, which are carried out to the detriment of the general public and smes and whose scale is estimated at €1 trillion per year. the european parliament has decided to take up its responsibilities through a series of recommendations: the development of a blacklist of tax havens, a european tax levied at source and collected by the member states, a union code of conduct for all tax advisory services and binding union legislation to combat the misuse of patent-friendly tax regimes for tax evasion. the text also calls for a clear legal framework to ensure effective protection of whistleblowers. finally, we call for deterrent measures such as sanctions to be imposed on the countries on the blacklist, as well as on the companies, banks, law firms, accountancy firms and tax advisers who are complicit in these fraudulent activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report drawn up by the taxe 2 committee. it sets out a new set of recommendations to make corporate taxation fairer and more ethical. the simple principle that should guide the european commission's action is clear: tax must be paid where profits are made. parliament called for public country-by-country accounting of multinationals, a european public register of beneficial owners of companies, a blacklist of tax havens, sanctions against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, action against the abuse of tax regimes favourable to patents (intellectual property income) and, finally, a withholding tax on profits leaving the union. in particular, the commission is called upon to propose without delay a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the most direct and effective tool to prevent aggressive tax optimisation by multinationals and tax dumping by member states. finally, this report renews the call for immediate protection of whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. it should be recalled that tax evasion is a major economic problem, estimated by the commission at eur 1 000 billion. this report is the result of the work of the taxe 2 committee, which was set up with the aim of working towards strengthening the fight against tax evasion and fraud. the text recommends that, in order to combat the problem of shell companies, the requirements for transparency in the formation of private companies should be strengthened. the text also calls for tackling the root causes of tax evasion by proposing reforms at eu level but also at international level through cooperation with the g20, the oecd and the united nations. finally, it should also be noted that the report again calls on the commission to make a legislative proposal on the protection of whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my colleagues jeppe kofod and michael theurer, whose realistic assessment of tax policies shows that europe is not committed to equality before tax. the aggressive tax optimisation of multinationals, the convictions of whistleblowers acting in the public interest and the complacency towards tax havens are all elements that weaken the link between citizens, tax and europe. the european parliament has therefore adopted a series of recommendations for fair taxation. the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base, country-by-country reporting, reform of the body for coordination between member states on tax practices in respect of companies and the protection of whistleblowers are all essential steps towards greater tax and social justice. globalisation and the development of multinationals have weakened the ability of states to raise taxes. let us not be mistaken: it is at european level that action is needed to restore our public finances and ensure equality for all in the face of taxation. this report is an indispensable step on the long road to building a just europe.
in writing. ‒ this text is the final report of the special committee on taxation, whose aim is to propose ways of combating aggressive tax optimisation. this means that a multinational company (the only one that can afford it) uses the flaws in bilateral agreements to avoid paying taxes. experience has shown that cooperation alone is not enough to combat these techniques effectively. as french people, we have much to gain from this draft of common tax rules against tax evasion, fraud and optimisation. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion is a priority and the report tax 2 indeed raises elements in this direction. for example, he criticises the favourable treatment of multinationals, which pay less tax than smes and benefit from tax avoidance strategies implemented by some countries, known as tax optimisation. lack of information on final beneficiaries, ineffective exchange of information, non-compliance with control requirements: all these shortcomings stem from the ineffectiveness of the current legislation and this report has the merit of highlighting them. but it does not go far enough: the people responsible for the situation are cleared and the real solutions are neglected. public control of the banking and financial system, restrictions on capital movements and a common action plan are needed to put an end to tax havens. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ through this oral question, our aim is to ask the european commission for its opinion on the results of synergies between the cohesion funds and horizon 2020. we ask the commission to present a communication on the implementation of the synergies of the esi funds with horizon 2020, the galileo/copernic programmes, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and other european innovation funds.
in writing. while synergies are essential to maximise the effectiveness of european funds, the notion of 'synergy' is used in this motion for a resolution as a pretext to reaffirm a number of principles, programmes and strategies: - 'thematic concentration', which favours the financing of large-scale infrastructure in urban centres at the expense of local projects in rural areas; - the urban programme and territorial agenda, whereas urban policy is the exclusive competence of the member states; - the obligation to develop smart specialisation strategies based on multi-level governance for member states wishing to invest resources from the european regional development fund. i therefore opposed these resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because cohesion policy remains the main instrument for the union's investment in the real economy at the level of all regions. this instrument should help to reduce the economic, social and territorial divisions exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis and budget cuts.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the promotion of synergies, which consists in combining the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), horizon 2020 and other union instruments in the funding of the same project in order to increase the chances of success of the project. but while synergies are essential to maximise the effectiveness of european funds, the notion of 'synergy' is used here as a cover for other principles that are less beneficial for our societies, such as 'thematic concentration', which favours the financing of large urban infrastructures at the expense of local projects in the countryside. finally, the text stresses the need to reduce administrative burdens and simplify the rules for implementing the structural funds without explaining how they intend to achieve this. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ synergies are multiplied by the positive effects on competitiveness, growth and employment in the union by combining the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), horizon 2020 and other union instruments in the funding of the same project. this text actually raises three problems. firstly, it reaffirms the thematic concentration, which favours the financing of large-scale infrastructure in urban centres to the detriment of local projects in rural areas. secondly, the urban programme is a competence of the member states and not of the eu. finally, the issue of the obligation to develop smart specialisation strategies based on multi-level governance (see erdf resources). the proposal proposes to reduce administrative burdens and simplify the rules for implementing the structural funds but without any concrete proposals. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ while the synergies between the different funds can be seen positively and the need to reduce administrative burdens is clear, this report is unclear on how to achieve this. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ synergies are multiplied by the positive effects on competitiveness, growth and employment in the union by combining the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), horizon 2020 and other union instruments in the funding of the same project. while synergies are essential to increase the effectiveness of european funds, we do not approve of the fact that the union uses this notion of synergy to reaffirm certain questionable programmes, principles and strategies. as such, we are opposed to thematic concentration which favours the financing of large-scale infrastructure in urban centres to the detriment of local projects in rural areas. in addition, we contest the requirement for member states wishing to use resources from the european regional development fund to develop smart specialisation strategies based on multi-level governance. finally, as usual, the european union wishes to take over prerogatives that are not its own, such as urban policy, which is the exclusive competence of the member states. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020. cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument for investment at regional level. the reform of cohesion policy should make it possible to intensify the synergies of the five european structural and investment funds (esif). the european commission must ensure effective synergies between the funds and with other eu policies. maximising the effects of investment creates new quality jobs and preserves existing ones, while promoting the green economy.
in writing. ‒ the parliament asked the european commission an oral question on the synergies of cohesion policy with other european funds, asking in particular how it assesses the synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020, what incentives are in place to support the synergies between the different structural funds. the european parliament resolution considers that the information on these synergies provided by the european commission is insufficient and strongly calls on the commission to make progress in this respect. considering that the structural funds and horizon 2020 are excellent tools for developing the european economy, but that these tools would be even more effective with a real synergy and complementarity between the two funds, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution on synergies between the structural funds and the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation to promote and strengthen our cohesion policy. in particular, it is important to re-emphasise the special attention that smes, the backbone of our economies, require in the implementation of horizon 2020 and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi).
in writing. ‒ the notion of 'synergy' is used as a pretext to impose 'thematic concentration', which favours the financing of large infrastructure in urban centres to the detriment of local projects in rural areas. however, urban policy is a matter for the member states alone. the resolution also stresses the need to reduce administrative burdens and simplify the rules for implementing the structural funds, without explaining how this can be achieved. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: while synergies are essential to maximise the effectiveness of european funds, the notion of 'synergy' is used in this motion for a resolution as a pretext to reaffirm a number of principles to which we are opposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. there is an urgent need to foster synergies between european funds and other european union competitiveness policies, in particular in the field of research and development, ict, renewable energy and smes, in order to increase the exploitation rate of european r&d results and to create new quality jobs. there is a real complementarity between grants and financial instruments which do not finance the same types of activities and which target different types of beneficiaries and projects. further strengthening of accountability, transparency and results orientation of financial instruments is also needed. let us take past experience into account to improve these instruments! finally, i believe that it is essential to be attentive to the needs of smes in the design and implementation of the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020. this is how we will attract investors to europe and enable young entrepreneurs to realise their projects!
in writing. while synergies are essential to maximise the effectiveness of european funds, the notion of 'synergy' is used in this motion for a resolution as a pretext to reaffirm a number of principles, programmes and strategies: thematic concentration, which favours the financing of large-scale infrastructure in urban centres at the expense of local projects in rural areas; the urban programme and territorial agenda, whereas urban policy is the exclusive competence of the member states; the obligation to develop smart specialisation strategies based on multi-level governance for member states wishing to invest resources from the european regional development fund. the strategy to promote synergies between all the union's instruments also aims to use eu funds to finance the horizon 2020 programme. finally, this motion for a resolution stresses the need to reduce administrative burdens and simplify the rules for implementing the structural funds without explaining in concrete terms how they intend to achieve this. i can only oppose that, which is why i am voting against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on synergies between the european structural funds and horizon 2020, the european commission's research programme. the resolution stresses the possible complementarities between these different european funding sources, while noting that the possibilities of combining several funds remain too little known. the text therefore calls for clarifications and better communication by the european commission. finally, the text emphasises the potential benefits of smart specialisation strategies (which involve regions identifying their areas of excellence and channelling eu funding towards these priorities). this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the potential for synergies and complementarities between the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020, the european research and innovation funding programme. the text encourages the development of such synergies and calls on the commission to provide clarifications.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it reaffirms strategies that the fn opposes, including an urban agenda based on multi-level governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020. while synergies are essential to maximise the effectiveness of european funds, the notion of 'synergy' is used in this resolution as a pretext to reaffirm a number of principles, programmes and strategies. there is the "thematic concentration", which favours the financing of large infrastructure projects in urban centres to the detriment of local projects in rural areas. there is the urban programme and the territorial agenda, whereas urban policy is the exclusive competence of the member states. there is an obligation to develop smart specialisation strategies based on multi-level governance for member states wishing to invest resources from the european regional development fund. finally, the text stresses the need to reduce administrative burdens and simplify the rules for implementing the structural funds without explaining how they intend to achieve this. these wishes serve above all to convince the most sceptical of the text not to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the text develops the strategy for synergies. it brings together the european structural investment funds (esi funds), horizon 2020 and other eu instruments in one project to improve competitiveness, growth and employment. this policy is not to be rejected in itself. however, it is re-evaluating a number of programmes and strategies which run counter to the sovereignty of the member states. thematic concentration, for example, favours the financing of large urban infrastructure, to the detriment of local projects in rural areas. in addition, the creation of synergies is at the service of the horizon 2020 project, with the use of esi funds. i am fundamentally opposed to this text and i shall vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the report is to facilitate synergies of innovation funding and projects between different eu policies and programmes. while simplifying access to finance is a good thing, i note that it is increasingly disconnected from the issues of territorial cohesion, as it is mainly focused on performance and competitiveness. the text also welcomes the introduction of new financial instruments and public-private partnerships. i therefore vote against this text, which again fails to achieve its objectives.
in writing. while synergies are essential to maximise the effectiveness of european funds, the notion of 'synergy' is precisely used in this motion for a resolution as a pretext to reaffirm a number of principles, programmes and strategies: - 'thematic concentration', which favours the financing of large infrastructure projects in urban centres to the detriment of local projects in rural areas; - the urban programme and the territorial agenda, whereas urban policy is the exclusive competence of the member states; - the obligation to develop 'smart specialisation' strategies based on multi-level governance for member states wishing to invest resources from the european regional development fund. i therefore opposed these resolutions.
in writing. ‒ while synergies are essential to maximise the effectiveness of european funds, the notion of 'synergy' is used in this motion for a resolution as a pretext to reaffirm a number of principles, programmes and strategies, such as the urban programme and the territorial agenda, whereas urban policy is the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution focuses on the synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020 and other european innovation funds and union programmes. i support all the texts calling for better complementarity between the existing mechanisms to increase their effectiveness. the simplicity, readability and effectiveness of the support that the union can provide to enterprises is an important factor in competitiveness. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the notion of 'synergy' is used in this motion for a resolution as a pretext for reaffirming a number of principles, programmes and strategies: - 'thematic concentration', which favours the financing of large-scale infrastructure in urban centres to the detriment of local projects in rural areas; - the urban programme and the territorial agenda, whereas urban policy is the exclusive competence of the member states; - the obligation to develop smart specialisation strategies based on multi-level governance for member states wishing to invest resources from the european regional development fund. the strategy to promote synergies between all the union's instruments also aims to use eu funds to finance the horizon 2020 programme. finally, this motion for a resolution stresses the need to reduce administrative burdens and simplify the rules for implementing the structural funds without explaining in concrete terms how this can be achieved. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which underlines the need for synergy and complementarity between the european structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme, which brings together all european research and innovation programmes. in particular, smart specialisation strategies at regional level enable territories to identify their areas of excellence and to direct european funding towards these priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the need for synergies between the european structural funds and the horizon 2020 programme. these synergies allow for the establishment of interactions between investment strategies and interventions to have a significant impact on the economy. it is important that union funding is targeted, complementary and results-oriented. synergies between other union competitiveness policies, notably in the field of research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes, should also be increased.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution addresses the issue of synergy between european funds and other instruments with a view to maximising the effects on competitiveness, growth and employment in the european union. however, i disagree with the principles on which this synergy is based. the eu intends to encourage the financing of large structures in urban centres at the expense of local and rural projects (which are the exclusive responsibility of the member states). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ a leap forward by unelected bureaucrats who are clearly incapable of questioning themselves...
in writing. ‒ the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017 is yet another programme full of empty phrases and beautiful formulae. people are speaking more and more loudly, whether it is the british referendum and brexit, soon referendums in italy (constitutional reform) or in hungary against migrant quotas and recently in the netherlands on the association agreement with ukraine. the only real programme should be one which prepares the dissolution of the union for the benefit of the states and the sovereignty that has been regained. in times of constant austerity, dictates imposed by germany on other states and faced with uncontrollable mass immigration, the eu and the commission must reform deeply or disappear. without a radical change in european policy, we cannot support any work programme of the commission or any other european institution, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces many challenges in 2017. the migrant crisis, the agricultural crisis, brexit and terrorism require immediate european action. the commission is one of the driving forces behind the union, given its power of legislative initiative. in this resolution, the european parliament makes recommendations for the implementation of the commission's programme for the year 2017. as a co-legislator, it is important that parliament is involved at all stages of the european legislative process. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this resolution is to provide the european parliament with guidance to the european commission for the preparation of its work programme for 2017. the european commission is, of course, called upon to make new proposals on the migration crisis, security, but also on employment, growth and social policy. i welcome the fact that the resolution addresses the agricultural question by calling on the commission to come forward with proposals to reduce the complexity of the cap for farmers and to develop improved instruments to deal with crises in agricultural markets. finally, parliament called on the commission to put in place a framework legislation at eu level to combat unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, in order to ensure that european farmers and consumers enjoy fair conditions of sale and purchase. i voted in favour of the resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this resolution, which is not legally binding, but which gives guidelines for the commission's work programme for 2017. in particular, it was crucial to underline the urgency of completing the european arsenal to deal with the refugee crisis in europe. too much time has already been lost. however, i reject the continuation of the accession process of the candidate countries to the european union, which must make a lasting break in its enlargement policy. the signal sent by the british on 23 june is clear: stop an ever-growing europe which does not control its external border controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2017, because it is important to me to send a signal of unity to european citizens. it is essential that the different institutions share a common vision of the european union's main priorities for the future. environmental and public health issues must be top priorities in 2017. for example, i attach great importance to the completion of work on the circular economy, a topic on which i have been very invested for a number of years. i also reiterate my commitment to the issue of endocrine disruptors, which must be a top priority for the european commission in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution which validates - and attempts to influence - the commission's roadmap for 2017, even though it contains obvious shortcomings which i was able to raise within my s&d political family. while i welcome the encouraging elements in the area of social rights, the fact that the migration crisis has been taken into account and the desire to make progress on own resources, through the implementation of a tax on financial transactions, i regret, for example, the absence of the question of whistleblowers. i would also have liked to see china's market economy status included in this agenda. at the end of the negotiations between the democratic political forces in parliament, these two points could not be taken up. my group has taken note of the status quo, and i have followed its decision in the name of collective discipline.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which constitutes parliament's contribution to the european commission's work programme for 2017. this work programme should focus on a few major priorities where the european union can bring real added value: the fight against illegal immigration, strengthening the euro area, cooperation against terrorism, developing the single market and implementing the digital strategy and the energy union. however, i voted against the proposal to implement permanent and mandatory mechanisms for the relocation of refugees, as such mechanisms would not help to solve the migration crisis we are experiencing.
in writing. the recent decision by the united kingdom to leave the european union requires us to react and to respond genuinely to the expectations of our citizens in the european project, in a europe that i want to see as progressive and solidary, and as a means of improving the daily lives of all. despite some positive elements in this resolution, including a call for a review of the current asylum and immigration policy, i abstained on this resolution which has failed to achieve its objective of underlining the urgent need for reform and change of direction. it is therefore the responsibility of this commission to go ahead and ensure that those who opposed the revision of the directive on the posting of workers are wrong and that the law finally prevails so that this revision takes place. we are opposed to the tendency towards nationalist retreat, but we are in favour of a political europe that is stronger than ever and more united. only on the basis of these elements will the socialists be able to continue to support the juncker commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the commission's work programme for 2017. the programme is structured to respond to current challenges such as the environment, efficiency, energy independence and diversification, security at the eu's external borders and within the member states, and the development and competitiveness of smes. this programme was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament sets out its recommendations for the 2017 work programme of the european commission. the emphasis is on jobs, growth and competitiveness, but also on the refugee crisis and security in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it adopts an unrealistic 2017 work programme. i regret that the european parliament rejected the amendment tabled by the enf group, which called for the resignation of jean-claude juncker.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2017. this text, drafted by the epp, the socialist group and the liberal group, is a denial of reality. the brexit has shown that the peoples of europe are revolting against the brussels oukases, but we continue to act as if nothing had happened. this european and federalist resolution calls for even more powers for the european institutions. it even calls for the introduction of 'own resources' for the eu budget, i.e. a european tax. all the amendments tabled by the enl group were rejected. we have in particular called for the resignation of jean-claude juncker as president of the commission.
in writing. ‒ the resolution put to the vote by meps was intended to influence the content of the european commission's work programme for 2017. in the particular post-brexit context, it was important for parliament to take an ambitious position in favour of a other europe, more protective, more social, more fiscal. the proposals in the resolution are, for many, convincing, but the final text - spoiled by its blind spots and its overall liberal tone - looks like another missed opportunity. i strongly supported the paragraphs in the text calling for the creation of a genuine european pillar of social rights, a better distribution of refugee reception and a drastic increase in the union's own resources - in particular through the implementation of the proposed financial transaction tax. unfortunately, the resolution misses key points, which correspond to the urgent expectations of european citizens: unlike previous texts, parliament was not able to call on the commission to present a directive on whistleblowers, to refuse to grant china market economy status or to make a clear break with austerity policies. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ once again the social democrats and liberals agree on the commission's work programme. so it is not surprising that this joint resolution is part of the eu's usual policies. the text welcomes the action of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) which supports austerity policies in the union. he called for greater competition and insisted on the inclusion of nato in the framework of the common security and defence policy. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ compared to last year, the commission's 2017 work programme is particularly short. four main themes are addressed: promoting the single market, the inclusion of refugees, common defence and the fight against unemployment. many wishes for little concrete proposals. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission's agenda includes an objective of increasing the resources and powers of the european union, even though the british people's vote is pushing the opposite direction, that of deconstructing the european union; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the world economy. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on the commission's work programme for 2017. the report called for the establishment of systematic mechanisms for the relocation of migrants. i am constantly opposed to the irresponsible policy of migrant quotas which is a false appeal to illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ the commission's programme and the proposals of the meps show the complete disconnect between them and the peoples of europe, who aspire to regain their sovereignty, as the british vote amply demonstrated. the commission should make a successful brexit one of its main objectives, because the european union may well have to use the exit procedure several times. i am naturally voting against the commission's programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the european commission's priorities for the work to be carried out in 2017. at a time when some are turning events caused by political and electoral issues into crises, it is the duty of serious politicians to work on fundamental issues that affect the daily lives of citizens. among these, i would like to highlight: the economic recovery and competitiveness of europe, the strengthening of economic and monetary union, immigration and the management of the refugee crisis, the increase in security within the eu and fiscal harmonisation on the continent. we therefore ask the european commission to propose a european pillar of social rights to ensure a basic set of fair working conditions for european citizens. finally, research and innovation will have to be the driving force behind the action of the union and the member states, in particular by boosting the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this resolution. in these troubled times for our union, which is facing a crisis without precedent in its history, there is one thing we must refuse at all costs: business as usual. it would be very unwise for our common home, for the union and its institutions, to continue to act as if nothing had happened. to do so would put our european project in danger. our assembly must send a strong, innovative and unifying political message. so, while i am not opposed to the content of this resolution, i do not think it is really up to the challenge we face and that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which gives the european parliament's recommendations for the european commission's work programme for 2017. the resolution focuses on ten priority areas such as economic recovery and competitiveness, climate change, the management of migration and refugees, security, the union's external action and the establishment of fair taxation. the resolution calls on the commission to submit a proposal on a european pillar of social rights. it is crucial that european citizens can enjoy a basic set of fair working conditions. the commission should also propose more measures to foster innovation and research in order to better meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and sustainable growth. the text reminds the commission of the objective of completing economic and monetary union in order to guarantee sustainable economic growth and of the need for a new budgetary strategy to meet the challenges of the present. the resolution also calls on the commission to include security proposals in its work programme, including the european counter-terrorism centre within europol.
in writing. ‒ every year, the european parliament gives its opinion on the commission's work programme, in the form of a non-legislative resolution. for 2017, it contains a selection of the union's classic policies. not surprisingly, it calls for increased competition, stresses the importance of the social market economy and pushes for ever greater involvement of nato in global security and conflict resolution. more worrying is the police approach to migrants. the resolution rightly notes that the relocation programme launched by the commission is not working. but i do not think that making stopping migration a priority is the appropriate response to this failure, and yet that is what this resolution proposes. finally, it welcomed the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) programme, which supports the austerity policies currently being pursued. i am voting against this resolution, which is part of an even more secure and austerity-oriented approach.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes that the council and the european commission commit themselves more firmly against japan in relation to whaling. in november 2015, the international whaling commission was informed by the united states of its intention to resume whaling under a 12-year plan to kill 333 minke whales and 4,000 whales. although the court of justice ordered japan in 2014 to stop the hunt, it does not recognize any authority. so the talks seem to be stalled. from an ecological point of view, respect for marine biodiversity suggests that japan should be required to review its decision; the main threat to whales is not from hunting, but from the microplastics ingested by whales (many of which are at sea). the proposal also asks the council and the commission whether they intend to take legal action against japan if it refuses to comply with this international court decision. the subject is legitimate, even if the protection of whales is more about preventing marine pollution than constraints on a whale-loving country. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i strongly support the maintenance of the global moratorium on commercial whaling and the ban on international trade in whale products. the unjustified practice of 'scientific whaling' must be stopped urgently. we also encourage the designation of large areas of the sea and oceans as sanctuaries where whaling is prohibited for an indefinite period.
in writing. ‒ amendment no 3 which raised the point that continued whaling is an obstacle to the free trade agreement with japan was rejected, so i abstained on the resolution, which then became more symbolic than effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the global moratorium on commercial whaling, which is still in force, to protect stocks from extinction and allow them to be replenished.
in writing. ‒ in november 2015, the japanese fisheries agency informed the international whaling commission that it would resume whaling as part of a 12-year plan. this is a decision which i find problematic.
in writing. ‒ in november 2015, the japanese fisheries agency informed the international whaling commission that it would resume whaling under a 12-year plan. the plan calls for the killing of 333 minke whales during the 2015-2016 season and approximately 4,000 whales over the duration of the plan. oral questions were submitted calling for stronger condemnation of japan and enforcement of the icj ruling of 31 march 2014 ordering japan to cease the annual killing of whales in the antarctic ocean. the resolution calls on the council and the commission to condemn japan more firmly and to apply pressure on it through bilateral or multilateral channels (without specifying the nature of this condemnation or pressure). furthermore, there is evidence that hunting is not linked to scientific needs. whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species of whales are threatened with extinction. however, the problem of whale ingestion of plastic waste, which causes massive strandings, will also have to be addressed. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ even though the main cause of whale mortality is not the fishing practiced by japan, but rather the massive ingestion of plastic bags and accidental beaching on the shores, the fact remains that we cannot remain indifferent to this programmed slaughter. and although it is regrettable that this will have little effect on this country, which does not recognise the jurisdiction of the international court of justice, i am in favour of continuing this fight. therefore, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution strongly condemns japan's decision to resume whaling under a 12-year plan. the plan calls for the killing of 333 minke whales this season and 4,000 whales over the course of the plan. the council and the commission are therefore asked to initiate legal proceedings to compel japan to comply with the judgment of the international court of justice ordering it to cease whaling in the antarctic ocean as from 31 march 2014. for one thing, most experts agree that the hunt is not for scientific research, contrary to japan's claims. on the other hand, whaling is a serious threat to biodiversity. it is therefore essential to put an end to these practices in order to protect certain endangered whale species. i have nevertheless abstained on this resolution, which is largely symbolic and has no binding force.
in writing. ‒ in november 2015, the japanese authorities announced a new whaling plan. this plan covers a total of approximately 4000 whales, including 333 minke whales during the 2015-2016 season. this resumption of whaling is very bad news for the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems. it is also a flagrant violation of international law, including the march 31, 2014 ruling by the international court of justice ordering japan to stop the slaughter of whales in the antarctic ocean. the japanese authorities claim that this fishery is carried out for scientific research purposes. that justification is not credible. the judgment of the international court of justice is very clear in this respect. i voted for this resolution which calls for the european union to use its full weight to put pressure on japan. whaling must be fought. it is a practice of another age which is not in accordance with the principles defended by the european union in its waters and in international waters.
in writing. i am calling for a global moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international trade in whale products. japan must end this practice without delay and commit to protecting endangered whales. we must act as partners in the preservation of marine biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ although whaling has been banned since the international moratorium of 1986, japan continues to hunt under the guise of 'scientific research'. in 2014, the international court of justice ordered japan to stop the practice, ruling that it was indeed a commercial hunt. yet, 333 whales were killed by japanese fleets during the 2015-2016 season. the european union and japan are economic and political partners. the commission and the council must therefore urge tokyo to honour its international commitments on the protection of marine mammals.
in writing. ‒ japan disregards the decision of the international court of justice of 31 march 2014 ordering it to stop whaling in the antarctic ocean. the icj concluded that the hunt was not actually conducted for scientific research purposes, contrary to japan's claims. the fact remains that icj judgments are binding only on the parties involved and that japan has challenged the jurisdiction of the court to hear the dispute brought by australia. the council and the commission are asked to condemn japan more firmly and to apply pressure on it through bilateral or multilateral channels, without specifying the nature of such condemnation or pressure. in the absence of results, the council is asked whether it intends to initiate legal proceedings to enforce the icj judgment on japan. whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species are threatened with extinction. i voted for this text even though the greatest concern for the future of whales today is mainly the mass strandings of whales on the coast due to the ingestion of plastic waste.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the questions to the council and the commission are not a problem, even if the sanctions or legal action envisaged are vague to say the least. there is no reason to object to this, but it should be noted that the biggest threat to whales today is plastic pollution, which is now more dangerous than global warming or increasing salinity and acidity of the water.
in writing. the text calls on the council and the commission to condemn japan more strongly and to apply pressure on japan through bilateral or multilateral means (without specifying the nature of these). in the absence of results, the council is asked whether it intends to initiate legal proceedings to enforce the icj judgment on japan. the latter disregards the decision of the international court of justice of 31 march 2014 which "orders" it to stop whaling in the antarctic ocean. the icj concluded that the hunt was not actually conducted for scientific research purposes, contrary to japan's claims. whaling is also a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species of whales are threatened with extinction. there is no reason to oppose the text, and that is why i am voting in favour of it. the questions to the council and the commission are not a problem. however, it should be stressed that the greatest threat to cetaceans today is plastic pollution, which is now more dangerous than global warming or increasing salinity and acidity of water.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the resumption of whaling by japan. in november 2015, japanese authorities announced a new whaling plan that is clearly in violation of the march 2014 ruling by the international court of justice ordering japan to stop the systematic killing of whales in antarctica. even if traditional cultural practices should be defended, they serve in the case of japan only as a pretext to allow industrial hunting that directly threatens a species. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which condemns japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season, even though the international court of justice ordered the country in 2014 to stop these killings which harm the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this resolution on japanese whaling is purely symbolic. no sanctions against japan are envisaged.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season. the council and the commission are asked to condemn japan more firmly and to apply pressure on it through bilateral or multilateral channels (without specifying the nature of such condemnation or pressure). in the absence of results, the council is asked whether it intends to initiate legal proceedings to enforce the icj judgment on japan. the country is ignoring the decision of the international court of justice of 31 march 2014 which "orders" it to stop whaling in the antarctic ocean. whaling is a necessary threat to biodiversity, as some species of whales are threatened with extinction. however, the biggest concern for the future of whales today is not japan but the mass strandings of whales on the coast, due to the ingestion of plastic waste. i also regret that amendment no 3 was not adopted. he said that the continuation of whaling was an obstacle to the free trade agreement with japan.
in writing. ‒ whaling in the antarctic ocean by japan has been banned by a ruling of the international court of justice since march 31, 2014. in november 2015, the country informed the international whaling commission that it was resuming this fishery following a twelve-year plan, which envisages the slaughter of 4,000 whales in total. the report calls on the council and the commission to be more firm with japan and to apply pressure on it through bilateral and multilateral channels. whaling is a threat to biodiversity. it is making the situation worse for these cetaceans, which are increasingly affected by problems of plastic pollution, global warming and increasing sea salinity. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in november 2015, the japanese fisheries agency informed the international whaling commission that it would resume whaling as part of a 12-year plan. the plan calls for the slaughter of 4,000 whales and 333 minke whales during the 2015-16 season. this announcement is in contradiction with the decision of the international court of justice (whose jurisdiction is disputed by japan) of 31 march 2014, which decreed the ban on whaling in japanese waters. we do not dispute the merits of this resolution, which is addressed to the council and the commission. however, it is clear that it overlooks the main cause of the extinction of cetaceans: the proliferation of plastic pollutants.
in writing. ‒ whaling is a violation of international law and undermines the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, especially as most species are threatened with extinction. while commercial whaling has been banned by the international whaling commission (iwc) since 1986 and whales are therefore protected from hunting, japan continued to hunt them until 2014 (under the guise of scientific research programs). he was convicted by the international court of justice (icj) in march 2014, but has since resumed his whaling activities. the resolution condemns whaling and calls on the member states to take action in this regard within the iwc. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ amendment no 3 on the remark that continued whaling is an obstacle to the free trade agreement with japan was rejected, and i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the questions to the council and the commission are not a problem, even if the sanctions or legal actions envisaged are vague to say the least. it should be noted that the biggest threat to cetaceans today is plastic pollution, which is now more dangerous than global warming or increasing salinity and acidity of water. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i strongly denounce the practice of this fishing, which is organized by japan and which violates the ruling of the international court of justice (icj) of 31 march 2014. however, i could not support the adoption of two amendments which state that the continuation of whaling activities is an obstacle to the conclusion of the free trade agreement between the european union and japan. that is why i abstained on the vote on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the amendment which proposed to make any free trade agreement with japan conditional on the abandonment of whaling was rejected by socialist and right-wing meps. the motion for a resolution therefore loses all real value and is reduced to a symbolic text without any real meaning. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ in november 2015, japan announced the resumption of a whaling plan, in violation of the international court of justice's ruling of 31 march 2014 ordering japan to stop the slaughter of whales in the antarctic ocean. i voted in favour of this resolution, which reiterates our firm opposition to the japanese authorities allowing such destructive practices to continue.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution condemning japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season as part of a new scientific research programme on whales. this plan would allow the slaughter of 333 minke whales and a total of about 4,000 whales. by resuming whaling, japan is clearly ignoring the ruling of the international court of justice (icj) on march 31, 2014, ordering japan to stop the annual slaughter of whales in the antarctic ocean. the icj concluded that these activities were not carried out for the purpose of scientific research, contrary to japan's assertion. they therefore constitute a violation of international law and harm the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems. we therefore call on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is able to compete with the other fleets in the world.
in writing. ‒ whaling is a serious threat to the marine ecosystem and the survival of the species. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling on japan to cease its whaling activities. the protection of endangered species is crucial. the resolution calls on the commission, the eeas and the member states to engage in a dialogue with japan, through bilateral and multilateral channels, on the issue of whaling with a view to abolishing the practice.
in writing. ‒ in november 2015, japan decided to resume whaling as part of a 12-year whaling plan. this decision was made in violation of international law, as the international court of justice ordered japan to cease all activities related to whaling on march 31, 2014. however, japan has challenged the jurisdiction of the international court of justice, which does not oblige it to stop its activities, which are dangerous to the life and sustainability of antarctic whale species. however, it appeared during the votes that the planned pressure on the eu-japan free trade agreement to change its position would not take place, making the resolution symbolic. so i'm going to abstain.
in writing. ‒ since 1986, commercial whaling has been banned by the international whaling commission (iwc), but japan continued to hunt until 2014 under special scientific permits. more than 20,000 whales were killed between 1986 and 2014. on march 31, 2014, the international court of justice ordered japan to stop its hunting activities, which represented no scientific interest. in november 2015, the japanese fisheries agency informed the iwc that it would resume whaling under a new program purportedly scientific. this new program is designed to hunt 4,000 over 12 years. in addition to animal suffering, these activities threaten the survival of the species and undermine the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems. the report therefore calls on the commission, the eeas and the member states to put pressure on japan to abolish these ancient practices once and for all. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ two objections were raised against the commission's decision to grant an eu guarantee to the eib (european investment bank) for its investments in belarus. the reasons are the usual: lack of democracy in this country, corruption of the elites, etc. this is fair. and it is understandable that these political groups (efdd, alde, greens, etc.) are reluctant to include belarus in the list of countries eligible for financial guarantees from the union. the risk to the union's funds is high. however, the eib's investments are in the private sector, and hence close to civil society. should we make the local people pay for the misdeeds of their rulers? can we afford to use european taxpayers' money to guarantee investments in such a corrupt country? so i decided to abstain on those objections.
in writing. - i've decided not to follow that resolution. we must avoid getting involved in the internal political considerations of the member states bordering belarus. it is also important not to hinder the new strategy of 'critical engagement' pursued by the commission towards belarus.
in writing. ‒ these two objections seek to reject the commission's delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the commission has also proposed that the union guarantee be extended to cover the following losses: i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the objection is to reject the commission delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the arguments cited are the lack of press freedom in belarus, president lukashenko's suspicious scores in the 2015 presidential election, etc. while these facts cannot be denied, it must be remembered that such guarantees have been granted for countries not known to be democratic models like qatar. it is even more absurd to punish the people for the corruption of their leaders, since the eib only finances private enterprises. i therefore objected to this objection.
in writing. ‒ the two objections raised seek to reject the commission's delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the aim is to include belarus in the list of countries eligible for the eu guarantee against potential losses on eib investments. the arguments put forward are that belarus is not a liberal democracy (which is true, but what about democracy in the eu?), but i do not think that people should be punished for the behaviour of their leaders, especially since the eib only finances private companies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while belarus is not a model of democracy, the eib only lends to private enterprises. therefore, not to guarantee them is to punish the oppressed people a second time. i therefore abstained on that objection.
in writing. ‒ the objection is to reject the commission delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the commission wanted belarus to be included in the list of countries eligible for the eu guarantee against potential losses on eib investments. the advocates of this objection do not wish to grant guarantees to countries where democracy is not always respected and where human rights are regularly violated. while i do not dispute the criticisms of the belarusian government in respect of democracy, i voted against this objection, as the eib only invests in private companies. i believe that our conception of democracy must not interfere with the economic relations between us and belarus.
in writing. ‒ the objection is to reject the commission delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the aim is therefore to include this country in the list of those eligible for the eu guarantee against potential losses on eib investments. the reason is that belarus is not a liberal democracy, that human rights are not respected and that there is no freedom of the press. however, since the eib only provides financing to private enterprises, there is no need to inflict a double penalty on the belarusian people who are already victims of the corruption of their leaders. that is why i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ these two objections (one from the efdd group, the other from the ecr, alde and greens groups) seek to reject the commission's delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the aim is therefore to include this country in the list of those eligible for the eu guarantee against potential losses on eib investments. the arguments are expected: belarus is not a liberal democracy, human rights are not respected, president lukashenko was re-elected in 2015 with 84% of the vote, freedom of the press is non-existent, etc. however, although these facts cannot be denied and it seems surprising to grant a guarantee to such countries (such as qatar, for example), the eib only finances private enterprises. there is probably no need to punish the people (which would be a kind of double punishment) for the corruption of their leaders, as well as the eib which could find investment opportunities in belarus. that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the objection to the commission decision on the european union guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. in the context of the upcoming elections in belarus, strong support for this text could have been interpreted and used as support for belarusian president lukashenko, accused of serious human rights violations in his country.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the efdd text and to abstain on the greens-alde-ecr motion concerning this objection to the commission's delegated decision to grant an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects outside the eu, as regards belarus.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is intended to punish people for the corruption of their leaders.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection under article 105 (4): european union guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from operations in favour of belarus. the aim is to include the country in the list of those eligible for the eu guarantee against potential losses on eib investments. the arguments are expected: belarus is not a liberal democracy, human rights are not respected, president lukashenko was re-elected in 2015 with 84% of the vote, freedom of the press is non-existent, etc. however, if these facts cannot be denied and if it seems foolish to grant a guarantee to such countries, the eib only finances private enterprises. there is probably no need to punish the people (which would be a kind of double punishment) for the corruption of their leaders, as well as the eib which could find investment opportunities in belarus.
in writing. ‒ the text consists of two objections (one from the efdd group and the other jointly from the ecr, alde and greens groups) and aims to reject the commission's decision to grant eu guarantees to the european investment bank (eib) to protect its projects in belarus. this eu guarantee covers a number of countries and provides reassurance to the eib in its investments. the objections lodged by the political groups are that belarus is not a liberal democracy, that human rights are violated, that there is no freedom of the press, etc. however, these arguments can be countered by the fact that even less democratic countries, such as qatar, benefit from the eu guarantee. the people should not necessarily be punished for their leaders and in the case of belarus the eib is financing only private enterprises. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the resolution concerns the commission decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the greens and the efdd groups oppose this delegated act with regard to belarus because of the human rights situation in the country. this pretext seems a bit weak in the light of the eu's usual neighbourhood policy and the termination of this guarantee would also penalise the population. but this funding is also a way for the eu to complete the rupture between russia and belarus. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ these two objections seek to reject the commission's delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the aim is therefore to include this country in the list of those eligible for the eu guarantee against potential losses on eib investments. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ belarus is not a liberal democracy, human rights are not respected, president lukashenko was re-elected in 2015 with 84% of the vote, freedom of the press is non-existent. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the objection is to reject the commission delegated decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects in belarus. the arguments are expected: belarus is not a liberal democracy, human rights are not respected, president lukashenko was re-elected in 2015 with 84% of the vote, freedom of the press is non-existent, etc. the eib finances only private enterprises. there is no need to punish the people for the corruption of their leaders (which would be a kind of double punishment), nor the eib which could find investment opportunities in belarus. i therefore vote against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the objection concerning the european union guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) in the event of losses resulting from operations in favour of belarus.
in writing. ‒ the objection is to reject the commission's decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses on operations in belarus. they claim that the belarusian government is not democratic and that human rights and freedom of the press are not respected in the country. since the eib is in fact only investing in the private sector in belarus, there is no need to penalise entrepreneurs and the belarusian people, who must remain outside the existing political disputes. i voted against that objection.
in writing. ‒ the greens objected to a delegated act of the commission. the purpose of this act is to supplement a directive on the recovery and stabilisation of credit institutions. this directive requires european banks (7000) to have a minimum capital ratio (8%) to cover their financial commitments by 2020. the commission's proposed delegated act removes two of the standards set out by the eba (european banking authority) in the directive concerned: the one encouraging banks to compare themselves to check their levels of soundness (in the context of systemic risk) and the one limiting to 48 months the transitional period allowed to banks to replenish their collateral. the commission has therefore adopted a delegated act to facilitate risk-taking by banks and to make them more vulnerable in the event of a new crisis. i therefore support this objection to this inconsistent delegated act.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a delegated act which plays into the hands of the banks by giving them more freedom when the state of their balance sheets should not allow for this kind of tolerance. the systemic risk posed by our banking system and the serious consequences that a new crisis could have on our nations mean that banks must be made solvent again with the utmost urgency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection which seeks to repeal a delegated act of the european commission supplementing a directive on credit institutions. this delegated act deleted two provisions in the standards presented by the european banking agency which required banks to have their own solvency capacity. in fact, it leaves more freedom to the banks when the present balance sheet should be anything but tolerant, given the serious consequences that a new banking crisis could have on our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to address the objection under article 105 (4) concerning the fixing of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. this is an objection by the greens to a commission delegated act supplementing directive 2014/59/eu with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel). by 2020, the 7,000 banks in the european union will have to have built up a new pool of assets that can be depreciated in a crisis to avoid burdening the taxpayer with the mrel, which could represent 8% of banks' liabilities. the objection removed two important provisions for the implementation of the minimum capital requirement and i therefore decided to vote against it in order not to play the game of the banks by giving them more freedom.
in writing. ‒ the objection is to reject the european commission's delegated decision supplementing directive 2014/59/eu establishing a framework for the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms by standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum capital requirement and the minimum liability requirement (mrel). however, the delegated act removed two provisions from the draft standards submitted by the european banking authority which were essential for the implementation of the minimum capital and eligible liabilities requirement: the deletion of the downward adjustment test for the recapitalisation amount and the deletion of the 48-month limit for the transition period. i therefore voted in favour of this objection to a delegated act which aims to relax the rules in favour of banks when their balance sheets should not allow for this kind of tolerance. the disastrous consequences of a new financial crisis on our economies should prompt our leaders to put in place regulations to improve the solvency ratios of our banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to a delegated act which plays into the hands of the banks by giving them more freedom when the state of their balance sheets should not allow for this kind of tolerance. the act abolishes the 48-month limit for the transitional period for the application of the provisions. the systemic risk posed by our banking system and the very serious consequences that a new crisis could have on our nations mean that banks must be made solvent again as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to a delegated act which, under the guise of technical standards, actually weakens the capital requirements for banks. this is not insignificant for their solvency or, in the event of default, for their internal rescue, i.e. without having to appeal to the taxpayer once again. i know that objection will be overruled. that is to say, the majority of this parliament will be on the side of the banks. it should, however, remember the heavy responsibility of these firms in the financial crisis which, eight years later, is still affecting our economies. it should be aware that despite the massive injection of public funds for their rescue, which has caused the public debt to explode, the banks still do not play their role of financing companies. finally, it should oppose an implementing text which betrays the will expressed by the legislator, that is to say, by itself, when it adopted the basic directive. unless it is completely hypocritical and only pretends to fight against the abuses of the financial sector.
in writing. ‒ this is an objection by the greens to a delegated act of the european commission supplementing directive 2014/59/eu with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. however, the delegated act removed two provisions from the draft standards submitted by the european banking authority that were important for the implementation of the minimum capital and eligible liabilities requirement and for the bail-in regime, namely the removal of the downward adjustment test for the recapitalisation amount and the peer review for systemically important institutions and the removal of the 48-month transition period limit. i voted against a delegated act which plays into the hands of the banks by giving them more freedom when the state of their balance sheets should not allow for this kind of tolerance. the systemic risk posed by our banking system and the very serious consequences that a new crisis could have on our nations mean that banks must be made solvent again as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution tabled by the green group objecting to a technical act on the application of the criteria for calculating minimum capital adequacy ratios for credit institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it objects to a commission delegated act which calls for the abolition of the 48-month limit for the introduction of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities for financial institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection under article 105 (4): setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. this is an objection to a delegated act of the european commission supplementing the directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. this delegated act removes two provisions that were included in the draft standards submitted by the european banking authority and that were important for the implementation of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities and for the bail-in regime, namely the removal of the downward adjustment test for recapitalisation and the peer review test for systemically important institutions, and the removal of the 48-month limit for the transition period. the systemic risk posed by our banking system and the very serious consequences that a new crisis could have on our nations mean that banks must be made solvent again as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - i voted for it. i support the objection made by the greens against a delegated act which makes two major amendments to the brdd (establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms). the aim of the directive is to provide a new resource mattress for banks in the event of a serious crisis. this surety fund would enable banks to become solvent again in the most urgent of cases, without using taxpayers' resources. the delegated act contested by the text plays into the hands of banking institutions by deleting two provisions which are indispensable to the new system. i think that no tolerance should be shown to the banks, given the state of their balance sheets.
in writing. ‒ article 45 (2) of directive 2014/59/eu empowers the commission to establish the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. however, on 9 february 2016, the european banking agency issued an opinion to the commission in which it expressed its disagreement with certain amendments proposed by the commission. the commission has therefore concluded that the aid granted to bsca does not constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. this concerns the removal of the downward adjustment test for the recapitalisation amount and the peer review for systemically important institutions, as well as the removal of the 48-month transition period for the application of the new standards. these amendments reduce the scope of safety standards in the banking sector. the resolution therefore opposes the entry into force of the delegated act, and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to a delegated act which plays into the hands of the banks by giving them more freedom when the state of their balance sheets is worrying. the systemic risk posed by our banking system and the very serious consequences that a new crisis could have on our nations mean that banks must be solvent again as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to a delegated act which plays into the hands of the banks by giving them more freedom when the state of their balance sheets should not allow for this kind of tolerance. the systemic risk posed by our banking system and the very serious consequences that a new crisis could have on our nations mean that banks must be made solvent again as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ this is an objection to a delegated act of the european commission supplementing directive 2014/59/eu (establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms) with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel). the mrel is imposed on banks by the directive and could represent 8% of banks' liabilities. by 2020, the 7,000 banks in the european union will have to have built up a new pool of resources that can be depreciated in the event of a crisis to avoid taxpayer burdens. however, the delegated act removes two important provisions from the draft standards submitted by the european banking authority (eba): - the test related to the downward adjustment of the recapitalisation amount and the peer review for systemically important institutions; - the 48-month limit for the transition period. i therefore vote in favour of this objection to a delegated act which plays into the hands of the banks by giving them more freedom when the state of their balance sheets should leave no room for this kind of tolerance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection concerning the fixing of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted on an objection by the greens against a delegated act of the european commission supplementing a directive on the recovery of credit institutions. the aim is to ensure that banks have a reserve in case of a new crisis. however, this delegated act removed two barriers that had been established after the 2008 banking frenzy, including a bank viability test. i therefore support this objection against the delegated act which completely plays into the hands of the banks by giving them far too much freedom, when they should be forced to become solvent again as quickly as possible vis-à-vis their customers.
mr president, i would like to have it recorded in the minutes that we are meeting here in plenary and that priority should therefore be given to the debates in plenary. this is not so much addressed to mrs mogherini as to our colleagues in the enlarged bureau of the afet committee. i do not see how the already limited time of plenary debates should be taken up by committee time or, at any rate, amputated by committee time, during which certain colleagues will raise, in a limited circle, questions which they could put here in plenary, in full view of everyone. i think it is extremely regrettable, and i would like to see it recorded.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i understand your remarks and i can understand the sensitivity of, for example, eastern european colleagues towards russia. but something surprises me very much, since i have been in this parliament for almost thirty years. i hear about military action against russia much more than when it was the soviet union. but as far as i know, russia has liberated the peoples of central and eastern europe that it held under its boot; it has let go, i dare say, the 14 soviet socialist republics that were once part of the russian empire. but the more it retreats, the more it is said to be a danger. so i know there's crimea. we french, on behalf of the english, have already fought the war against russia over crimea during the second empire. is it really worth it if we start over?
mr president, madam high representative, allow me to congratulate you on this excellent work, this document which is a good basis for work, as one might say in diplomatic language, and which contains the concepts and key words needed for the european union to move forward, in particular this key word and concept which is close to my heart of 'strategic autonomy'. i also find it difficult to understand why some colleagues who present themselves as great europeans continue to be reluctant to see europe being more ambitious in taking on its own security, instead of continuing to depend on other powers, even if these powers are allies and friends. so all the keywords are there, but the challenge is going to be to turn them into action. the two obstacles facing us today are well known. on the one hand, of course, there are the member states and their political will to move forward - this is an unavoidable fact in a policy which remains largely intergovernmental. but we must also admit that there is a second obstacle, linked to the very weight of the european institutions. we will still have to go further and be much more efficient and pragmatic. i'll take a few examples, such as the famous "train and equip" programme, which has been discussed since 2013, since the european summit in 2013. we're now coming to a solution. it took three years to overcome legal difficulties within the european commission. this is not acceptable for a programme which is a real asset in today's world. as far as research and defence budgets are concerned, we are going to end up with something that will certainly fall short of the initial ambitions. we will do everything to maintain a decent and efficient envelope, but we are also falling behind a lot on things that seem obvious if we want to acquire this strategic autonomy. finally, there is the implementation of regional, sectoral and thematic strategies, and you will return to this point in this overall strategy. it is absolutely necessary to improve these documents and, above all, to implement them, because, in the end, to admit that they will have to be corrected is also to admit that, so far, they have not been implemented. so we were way behind schedule.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to point out a number of facts which the european parliament seems to ignore. this is not an israeli-palestinian conflict, but an israeli-arab conflict. israel, the only democratic country and the only national state in the region, is faced with states that are not democratic, states that are often racist, religious, which israel is not. in israel, there are 20 percent of muslim israeli citizens. most arab-muslim countries use the palestinian cause and push it to radicalism, only to destabilize israel. the situation of the abandonment of the palestinian refugees is, above all, a testimony to the indifference of the arab countries to the plight of the palestinians, who are their brothers, because what interests them is not aid to the palestinians - which is essentially provided by europe - but the search for the destabilization of israel by their propaganda and also - it must be said - by hatred of the elected jewish people. hatred of israel is confused with hatred of our judeo-christian values in countries subject to political islam and also, now, in our cities. your pro-palestinian options are the equivalent, in diplomacy, of the so-called reasonable accommodations whereby we force our nations to practice, with political islam, an impossible alliance with our states of religious freedom. this is how we have communitarianism, the expression of political islam, in our streets, in our homes. you dare to criticize a legitimate israeli government, which is fighting for its survival. many of us are even willing to negotiate for his safety, but you will not succeed. and it is a grave mistake to think that two states will allow this peace, because then it would be israel's suicide. survival is politics, it is the very reason for politics, and i absolutely understand israel's survival position, which should also be the policy we must adopt. we must call for the responsibility of all parties, but make the security of israel, as well as the autonomy of the palestinians, a sine qua non of any support for the negotiations.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a number of initiatives in the last month: the paris conference, martin schulz's initiative to invite the israeli and palestinian authority presidents to parliament, and this quartet report which i believe is helping to give a new lease of life to the israeli-palestinian peace process. i think it is time to launch other initiatives. as you said earlier in your speech, the first thing to do is to allow the arab peace initiative to be the basis for future negotiations. then, with professor alon ben-meir, i sent you a dossier, a proposal, so that a european initiative could be implemented, with the creation of a reconciliation commission. i have thought about this initiative with professor alon ben-meir, because i believe that reconciling the two peoples - israeli and palestinian - could also be a european initiative, which seems to me to be relevant today to ensure that this reconciliation of peoples takes place before the reconciliation of the political authorities.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the new eu strategy towards china (2016/2803 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2015 (2016/2796 ((rsp)).
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we are reviewing the annual report on human rights and democracy. there are a number of things to be welcomed, but what worries me is the contradiction with the reality of a growing number of european policies. i would like to give just one example: on page 14 of the report, i read that the european union welcomed the visit of president al-bashir to south africa, which was a success. but at the same time the union is in the process of concluding an agreement with sudan to finance its army from development funds, which mr mimica calls 'development and security go hand in hand', as we find in the commission document of 5 july last. what can we expect in this area? will we give the sudanese dictator funds to continue bombing his people in darfur and blue nile? will we help sudan to control emigration, while more and more eritreans are being sent back manu militari to eritrea, where they risk their lives? this is just one example of the way in which the rights of migrants are systematically addressed in relations with third countries, as you can read on page 19. so, yes, there is a vast difference between speech and action. cooperation with certain states is unacceptable when they are so openly violating human rights, and the european union is becoming less and less convincing in this matter.
on behalf of the enf group. mr. speaker, in 1984, the great writer george orwell made inversion of words one of the sources of big brother's power when he made war seem like peace and lies like truth. i would like to stress the admirably orwellian aspect of your report. you want to be credible, but you are proud of your support for the policy of respect for human rights in ukraine put in place by mr poroshenko. what are you doing with the thousands of dead, wounded and displaced people in donbass, the result of this new kind of human rights, which also came from neo-nazi groups? the entire ukrainian population is currently suffering from the coup d'état of 2014 and this government is not supported by the ukrainian population, including the west. you want to be credible, but you will be complacent in celebrating your support for the international criminal court, the armed arm of world disorder. the court has only ever tried weak leaders of states, almost all of them africans. where are the people responsible for the chaos in iraq, the disaster in libya, the crime in syria? is that what you call a credible policy of double standards? you are still satisfied to justify, in the name of human rights, turkish immigration blackmail and mr erdoğan's policy. the displacement of thousands of people - future economic migrants - becomes natural to you, like a weather phenomenon. this is convenient because it avoids questioning the role of international criminal networks in immigration networks and also the great replacement, the suicidal destruction, of our identity. finally, you are advocating for the rights of threatened minorities, freedom of conscience and freedom of expression, when even in this parliament they are being flouted and you are rightly afraid of the people.
mr president, i have been directly implicated. i would like to say to mr preda that his habit of insulting me and constantly calling me out is unacceptable in this house. moreover, unlike him, i do not read only propaganda and my sources are the reports of the commission itself, which specifically refer to the financing of the armed forces in the context of the new development and security policies. so let him go read the good papers, and stop equating me with the people across the street that i've always fought.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report shows the harmfulness of the union in the united nations. firstly, it is making a double speech: it is calling for the deradicalization and condemnation of the islamic state, while in libya it is supporting the muslim brotherhood against general haftar. we talk about multipolarity, and we support the international criminal court. here, as i have already told you, the west makes others judge, forgetting to judge themselves. secondly, the union is systematically seeking to destroy the strategic autonomy of the member states. but without the states, what is the union? i didn't say anything. this is a way of taking over the successes of the member states, including france. the operations in central africa, mali and the current operation barkhane are the work of french soldiers, their professionalism and their sacrifice to help the local populations, with the agreement of the un. we are taking advantage of a migration crisis, largely due to germany, its hegemony, its interests, to neutralize the action of the other states that make up europe. if mrs merkel's germany is imposing its interests, and also its suicide, then other states must be able to oppose this german policy, which is supposedly european. finally, there is an attempt to deprive france of its seat on the security council and thus to suppress the role of a major country. but to replace it with what? because in the end we want to influence the un without being a nation and without really relying on the nations and peoples that make up europe. we have an unidentified international object that doesn't work, from which a great many people have come out and from which others will follow, including france, if you don't change.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner katainen, i thank you for saying how important it is to protect whistleblowers. beyond words, i believe that now would be the time to change and to act. it is a strange world, however, to live in one where whistleblowers are prosecuted and convicted by the courts and where those who cheat and are exposed are not. it's all right. this is a world where journalists who inform citizens are rightly relaxed, but where, on the other hand, citizens who inform journalists are condemned. who can understand that freedom of the press, which is based primarily on the right to free information, is not backed up by the protection of individuals who defend the public interest? why should whistleblowers be protected? simply because they are the guardians of the public interest, the actors and the guardians of an open and transparent democracy. whether it's health issues, environmental issues, tax issues, or corruption, we need this information, we need to protect these people, not see them prosecuted and sent to prison. the commission would be well advised, commissioner, to respect what parliament has asked it to do and to ensure that a text is produced very quickly, and that you take the initiative that we are all trying to avoid, because you are not implementing it. we ask you, on behalf of the environmental group, to produce a european-wide text to defend the general interest of protecting whistleblowers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing you today as rapporteur for the directive on the protection of professional know-how. this directive, adopted here by a very large majority on 14 april, was published in the official journal of the european union on 15 june, and for the first time the european institutions - the european parliament, which was at the forefront of the proposals - have officially recognised in a european legislative text the need to offer protection to those who, sometimes at the expense of their professional, social, family or personal life, are obliged to disclose a fault, wrongdoing or illegal activity. that is exactly what we have written into european law: 'fault, wrongdoing or illegal activity'. [...]misconduct, wrongdoing or illegal activitywe have once again set this requirement in stone. the mediator case a few years ago in my country, france, and the more recent news of the luxleaks scandal and the sensational case, which is only just beginning, known as the panama papers, have shown us and show us every day the role, the importance and the usefulness of whistleblowers in detecting and revealing, once again, practices by which some violate, betray and circumvent the spirit and the letter of our laws, our standards and some of our fundamental principles. a few days ago, a luxembourg judge sentenced two whistleblowers in the luxleaks case in strict accordance with luxembourg law. i am one of those - and there are many of us here in the european parliament - who are firmly convinced that if the so-called 'business secret' directive had been applied and transposed into luxembourg law, things would not have gone the same way. in any case, it is clear that if scandals know no borders, the protection of whistleblowers that we must ensure must be put in place at european level. the overall approach is here in the european institutions, in thought and in action.
mr president, swissleaks, luxleaks, the panama papers, the mediator: is there any need to add to the list to prove the need for whistleblowers? the need for them, but also their vulnerability, since last week antoine deltour and raphaël halet were convicted by the luxembourg courts, after they revealed one of the biggest tax evasion scandals of the last ten years. today we voted on the findings of the taxe 2 committee on the same luxleaks scandal, which would never have been written without them. at a time when europe is facing an unprecedented crisis, we must show the european citizens that we are able to act for them and to protect those who defend the public interest, and we must go to the heart of the matter, which is to protect our values, to protect freedom of expression and democracy. parliament is holding this debate today on whistleblowers at the request of the socialist and democratic group and has repeatedly called for european protection for whistleblowers. why would you do that? because national protections, when they exist, are heterogeneous, imperfect, sectoral. the scandals, on the other hand, are european. so we need a transversal text. the commission has so far presented legal arguments which, in our view, are not valid. we have the means to find a basis, a foundation for action and to protect, with a horizontal, global, multisectoral framework, whistleblowers in europe. we must move beyond the commission's procrastination. so i ask you, commissioner: are we going to get out of this unacceptable status quo? we need political will. we have it in the european parliament and we expect the european commission to have it too.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, this report on the application of the convention on disabled persons signed with the united nations is obviously problematic. the form of the convention is that of the first and only convention signed with the united nations, with the anomaly that, with 28 member states having already signed it, the european level is overcrowded. on the other hand, the multiplicity of committees consulted makes the final text totally inaudible. in substance, the systematization of the criterion of the subjectivity of disability, which is by definition vague and not measurable, is in total contradiction with certain national laws, including french law, which recognizes that disability, although suffered, is above all a functional and objective deficit, which is the indispensable condition for fair and measurable statutory compensation. in substance, this text greatly increases the number of common areas not only in that it admits disabled people of all categories, but also in that it considers children, women, the elderly, the sick, migrants, the poor and lgbti people as victims of discrimination, which, in fact, determines that the only standard for you would be a young, well-built, rich, sedentary man, in full possession of his intellectual and physical resources and heterosexual. i'm not saying that, it's the exact mirror of your right-of-the-man speech. so i'll let you think about it. in the end, all your demonstrations concerning the acts of personal, family, professional and social life do not lead to any concrete proposals or applications in the face of the sometimes exhausting difficulties faced by the disabled. this text is in fact an affront to the truly disabled. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, thank you mr kósa, it is clear that this text asks the right questions about people with functional deficits, not about personal difficulties. but all this text is really about subjective things. we've discussed a lot of this in committee. the reality is that disabled people - all people with functional deficits, whether cognitive, physical, sensory or otherwise - should have the same opportunities as others, and that is what we must offer them, not endless speeches which, as mr howitt said earlier, lead to few concrete proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not doing disabled people a favour to impose, in a debate as sensitive as this, considerations linked to the sexual identity of people or to their migrant status. do you realise that these ideological deviations are likely to discredit and weaken thinking on the problem of disability? you are also aware that unrealistic or excessive approaches are counterproductive. that is why i proposed, in the opinion of my committee, that we should talk about the difficulties of access to care rather than the obstacles. at the same time, i have advocated a pragmatic approach to improve, where possible, access to care for people with disabilities. it is worth noting that this text still advocates respect for persons, particularly by emphasizing the importance of their free consent. it is therefore regrettable that the best aspects of this text are polluted by the obsession with migration and the communitarian prism, which are not - let us be honest - the main concerns of disabled people.
author. madam president, since our last resolution, the crackdown in bahrain seems to be intensifying. the death sentences have resumed. arrest, torture and a show of justice are the daily lot of opponents and human rights activists. others are prevented from traveling to geneva to give evidence. in 2015, more than 230 people were deprived of their citizenship. so yes, we must call for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the dropping of the charges against them nabeel rajad is a symbol of this. the bahraini authorities have considered that our latest resolution does not correspond to the position of the political forces with real influence, nor to that of the european union. such a statement is unacceptable. as a result, our resolve seems weak. it is based on the importance of economic and political partnership, including in the area of arms sales. i am not going to go into the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, particularly against the islamic state group. bahrain is on a bad path. i don't think we can help those who are fighting for their freedom of speech by turning a blind eye to reality. we must reaffirm our support for mohamed ramadan and ali moosa, who are still at risk of imminent execution.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sectarian conflict in bahrain stems from the seizure of almost all the levers of power by the sunni al khalifa dynasty. although the shia form the majority in the archipelago, they are kept out of the decision-making centres by a clientelist system built up by the ruling family over two centuries. saudi arabia, which considers bahrain its own territory, is keen to maintain the status quo. riyadh fears that any concessions from the caliphate will open a breach that iran could take advantage of. once again, the european parliament will forget to put forward a number of principles which it is constantly floating around. the sanctions must be imposed on the government of bahrain, of course, but above all on saudi arabia, which is implementing the programme of the islamic state.
author. madam president, once again we are talking about the rohingya, one of the most persecuted minorities in the world: a million people stripped of their citizenship, driven from all over the region, including australia. "rohingya" is a word that should not be used in myanmar even aung san suu kyi recently reminded ambassadors and un officials not to use it. we can celebrate the victory of the national league for democracy, but we know that everything is fragile. eight months after the elections, the repression is still there. yes, the challenge is immense. the entire discriminatory legal architecture, based on religion and ethnicity, needs to be revised, including the 1982 citizenship act and the four so-called race and religion protection laws of september 2015. the news is marked by a new outbreak of disturbing islamophobic violence fueled by radical buddhism that is adding fuel to the fire. two mosques have just been destroyed in a week, in the north and the center of the country. hopefully the symbolic panglong conference, if it is truly inclusive, will help to pacify the country beyond the urgent rohingya issue.
mr president, thank you for your fairness, thank you for allowing me to speak for a minute on the basis of rule 166 of our rules of procedure, which you have just invoked against one of our colleagues, whose views i do not necessarily share and who is not at all of the same political party as myself. i would just like to point out to you, mr president, that rule 166 gives you the right to punish a member who seriously disrupts the sitting, that is to say, for example, who prevents his colleagues from speaking, who gestures and who, despite reminders to order, persists in disruptive behaviour - this happened to me, for example, once in this parliament - but in this case, that rule gives you no right to censure a member's remarks, whether they are scandalous, whether they are indecent. if you get on that foot, there's gonna be a lot of work. and when i am president of parliament, i may find the remarks of some of my colleagues to be indecent. i believe that it is not respect for the freedom that members of parliament must preserve to punish, as you now do on a regular basis, members simply for what they say.
madam president, yes, it is good that we approve the work under way under the presidency of ambassador espinosa, representing the ecuadorian state, in favour of a treaty which requires multinationals to comply with social and environmental standards. this is a good thing, but we still need to work on this treaty until it is binding, and not merely indicative. and we should also point the finger at the united states of america, which has left the negotiating table by calling into question the presidency of this working party. this is unacceptable, as is the fact that a good number of european nations have withdrawn from this discussion. i call for us to go back and move forward. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to a point which is not generally of concern to anyone. and yet, look at this. i think we are the world power best placed to intervene in the direction of an orderly world under the auspices of the united nations in the areas essential to humanity in the race for wealth and raw materials that we see everywhere. i conclude that it is time for the european union to take a stand on the question of placing the deep sea under the international jurisdiction of the un and to do the same with satellites and extra-planetary exploitation, since, as you know, the united states of america now recognizes the right to privately appropriate the spaces of the moon. i would like to see this reflected and the european union committed to the universal rights of humanity in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which sets out the eu's objectives for the next session of the un general assembly. the text gives a glimpse of the eu's aim of satellizing the french seat on the security council. so i strongly opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which reflects our concerns about the role of women in the peace process, the representation of women at all levels of decision-making, children's rights, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and global disarmament, zero tolerance for the death penalty, lgbti rights, respect for human rights at sporting events, an eu seat on the security council and support for the nomination of a woman as the new secretary-general.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the eu's aim here is to seize or satellise the french seat on the un security council.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which is intended to prepare the next session of the un general assembly. in addition to a series of recommendations inspired more by the technocratic logic of brussels than by the requirements of the international situation, this report seeks to subordinate the french seat of the security council to the brussels directives. in this respect it is perfectly consistent with the commission's attitude, which seeks only to place under its control the prerogatives which still remain the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. - i will not use the word 'machine' which general de gaulle used to describe the united nations and which so many members of this house have claimed. this report advocates good measures in the field of international politics, although i fear that many of them - particularly the one on the two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict - will remain dead letter. i also find it difficult to see how the conflict in yemen can be resolved by advocating a rapprochement of all parties with iran and saudi arabia. it's a bit naive and it's part of the squaring of the circle. but there's always hope. and i also welcome the call for the abolition of the crime of blasphemy in certain islamic countries, even if the rapporteur avoids clearly identifying which specific countries are involved. could it be that we do not want to offend some of our "allies" like turkey?
in writing. ‒ this report on the 71st session of the un general assembly focuses on the eu's objectives for the next session of the assembly. the eu's aim is to seize or satellise the french seat on the security council for its own benefit. for that simple reason, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the eu's objectives towards the un in the context of the next session of its general assembly. i think it is more or less clear that the aim is to take away the french seat on the security council or, failing that, to make it a satellite. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report makes recommendations to the council on peace, security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation, disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy, the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system. parliament called on the council to reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for measures to defeat and eradicate terrorist organisations, including the so-called 'daesh' group, and to reaffirm clearly and unequivocally that all human rights recognised by un conventions are universal, indivisible, interdependent and closely linked. i supported the report because i shared the priorities it advocated.
in writing. by adopting this resolution, parliament addresses its recommendations to the council for the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. i supported this text, which in particular emphasises the need to strengthen our strategy for preventing radicalisation and combating terrorism. we were then able to reiterate our call to stop terrorist recruitment and propaganda via the internet and social networks. it was also necessary to recall our fight for better protection of religious minorities against violence and persecution, especially christians in the east.
in writing. ‒ this text deals with the eu's objectives for the next session of the un general assembly. since it leads to a recurrent interference in the diplomacies of the member states and the eu wishes to satellite france's seat on the un security council, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the eu's objectives for the next session of the un general assembly. it envisages a better integration of the european union into the objectives of the un and does not fail to interfere in a number of international situations, using the humanitarian pretext to conceal a total interference of the european union at international level. this is a situation which i find absolutely unacceptable and which is why i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrey kovatchev, on the european parliament's recommendations for the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. this report proposes actions related to the many issues that the un must address: peace and security, terrorism, human rights, development, climate change and reform of the un system. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the european union's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance centred on the united nations. the recommendations included a call for lasting and peaceful political solutions to the ongoing conflicts in the middle east and north africa, the eradication of terrorist organisations and a call for greater protection of religious minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it interferes with the european union's peace process in the middle east. this is a matter for the diplomatic competence of the member states alone. the european union is also interfering in the workings of the un, which i find unacceptable. it is up to the un member states to look after the un, not the european union, which would do better to look seriously at its own problems.
in writing. ‒ it is also the role of the european parliament to participate in global governance by being a key player in our international order and by ensuring good cooperation with international organisations. i voted in favour of the kovatchev report on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, which contains a series of recommendations from the european union to the united nations council on peacekeeping, the fight against terrorism, migration, human rights and climate change. i particularly supported our call to the un to fill the legal vacuum around the concept of 'climate refugee', in particular by looking at the possibility of an international definition. on the other hand, i wanted to defend our values of gender equality and the advancement of women by voting in favour of a proposal to give priority to the choice of a woman as the next secretary-general of the united nations, in the context of candidates presenting an equivalent level of excellence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 71st session of the un general assembly. the european union simply does not have a role to play in the united nations. its aim is to capture or satellite the french seat on the security council. i will of course oppose it.
in writing. - i voted against it. the text deals with the objectives of the european union for the next session of the un general assembly. it is clear that his aim is to take over the french seat on the security council to advance the eu's positions. i voted against it, and i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. it is aimed at the satelliteisation of the french seat on the security council, which we do not approve of.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the eu's aim here is to seize or satellise the french seat on the un security council.
in writing. ‒ we vote against this text which sets out the eu's objectives for the next session of the un general assembly, as the main objective is to take control of the french seat on the un security council.
in writing. ‒ the union's aim is to capture or satellise the french seat on the security council. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which once again calls russia into question and contributes to the sterile spiral of reciprocal sanctions that penalises our european producers but also our cooperation in the fight against terrorism and islamism. as the founder of the european parliament's working party on a new dialogue with russia, i am a consistent advocate for the immediate lifting of the reciprocal sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the text sets out the objectives of the european union for the next session of the united nations general assembly. but the european union does not have to have any objective in this area. it has no legitimacy and must absolutely be left to the member states to manage their diplomacy. i therefore vote against this interference which may one day become an attempt by the eu to usurp france's permanent seat on the security council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which makes recommendations to the council on security and peace, the fight against terrorism, disarmament and non-proliferation, migration, human rights and climate change. these areas of action, which are dealt with at multilateral level, must be supported by the european union, particularly at a time when there are many conflicts in regions such as the middle east and north africa. the strengthening of peacekeeping operations is fundamental in this context, as is the protection of the rights of religious minorities. more generally, we call for a comprehensive reform of the un security council, so that the un institutions can fulfil their missions effectively and on the basis of consensus between states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament's position for the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. the text thus recalls the european union's commitment to effective multilateralism and good global governance, centred on the united nations. this text underlines the scale of the challenges to be met in the years ahead. the report calls for continued peace efforts in the middle east, but also for consideration of ways of ensuring respect for international law in war zones. the report also stresses the importance of the fight against terrorism, in particular the fight against daesh. i supported this text because it recalls the importance of cooperation between the eu and the un in order to respond effectively to the challenges of the present day.
in writing. ‒ this text outlines the eu's objectives for the next session of the un general assembly, and it is clear that its intention is to seize the french seat on the security council. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the european parliament adopted a resolution addressed to the council on the eu's priorities for the 71st session of the un general assembly. this resolution is, as is often the case, paved with good intentions. it promotes a "culture of prevention" of conflicts, with the idea that more diplomacy is needed, and insists on the need to investigate cases of sexual abuse (including the french case). on migration, it plans to strengthen the budget of the united nations high commissioner for refugees and addresses the legal vacuum surrounding the concept of 'climate refugee'. however, some of the positions taken are not acceptable, starting with the desire to increase pressure on russia following its 'illegal annexation' of crimea. this only aggravates the situation and reinforces the logic of confrontation between the two blocs. the resolution also proposes to increase european military intervention and to prevent irregular migration, which is of course part of an increasingly secure logic. in short, a mixed assessment of this resolution, on which i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this is an own-initiative report to enable the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the anti-discrimination directive, which has been blocked in the council for eight years, would thus be brought to an indirect conclusion. the council would then be obliged to apply in full the decisions related to the union's accession to the convention in 2010. the idea is generous and seems positive at first. however, if we look at it more closely, the initiative here is to enhance the role of the commission by obliging the council, on a (social) subject outside its direct competence, to consider the union as a state in its own right. many of the stumbling blocks are also due to the differing definitions of disability, the reasonable use of public and private spaces, etc. finally, the report extends the concepts of disability to include gender equality and the reception of migrants. we are opposed to the method used by the union in its disability policy and to its systematic attempts to extend it to other concepts. i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. disabled people are often excluded from society and denied their human rights. with the socialists and democrats group, we are committed to promoting, defending and strengthening the human rights of all disabled people. all these people, regardless of their disability, are full citizens and must be able to enjoy the same human rights and fundamental freedoms as other citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am of course in favour of the adequate integration of people with disabilities into society and improvement of their well-being; if we cannot oppose the implementation of an already signed convention, in compliance with international law, i am strongly opposed to the implementation strategy proposed by the commission in this own-initiative report and to the very approach to disability that is made of it. that is why i voted against this report, its dogmatic view and its subjective conception of disability.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd), which aims to reduce inequalities between people with disabilities and other citizens by integrating them into all areas of society. however, this report is disconnected from reality, advocating a logic of systematic integration while the parents of the disabled themselves are calling for more specialised structures for the care of their children. moreover, the bias in the text, which in the name of a member states' incapacity gives all power to the commission, does not give the best ways of helping disabled people. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the figures are sobering: 15% of the world's population, or approximately one billion people, live with a disability. 80% of these people live in low-income countries. 50% of disabilities are preventable and are due to poverty. about 98% of children with disabilities living in developing countries are out of school. in europe there are 80 million disabled people, one sixth of the population. according to the ilo, the unemployment rate of disabled people can reach 80% in some countries. people with disabilities are too often marginalised and discrimination against them takes many forms, from denial of educational opportunities to exclusion and isolation. so yes, action is needed to at least try to reverse the trend, if not by a profound change in attitudes and behaviour. even if i do not agree with the proposed text in all its aspects, i will always be in favour of texts which aim to eliminate discrimination against disabled people in all areas of life.
in writing. ‒ this report should reduce inequalities between disabled people and other citizens by combating discrimination and integrating them into all areas of society. the current problem is that the anti-discrimination framework directive has been blocked in the council for eight years, particularly on the definition of the term 'handicap' by the states. the eu joined the uncrpd in 2010, thus giving a little more weight to the role of the commission at the expense of the states. the concerns in this report include misguided objectives (there are migrants, gender etc.), confusion about the term 'disability' or the inability of states to deal with this issue and therefore the need for the commission to take action. deeply committed to the fight against injustices and to the inclusion of people with disabilities in society, whether in the educational, professional, cultural, leisure or simply in private life, i think it is important to support all initiatives in this direction and towards greater equality between citizens. on the other hand, the convention has already been signed but i remain sceptical about some parts of the strategy proposed by the commission. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while i am obviously in favour of the adequate integration of people with disabilities into society and an improvement in their well-being, and if i cannot oppose the implementation of an already signed convention, in compliance with international law, i am, on the other hand, strongly opposed to the open-environment implementation strategy as proposed to the commission in this own-initiative report, and to the approach to disability itself, because of its lack of objectivity in the definition of disability. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to determine how the european union will implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which aims to reduce inequalities between disabled people and other citizens. i opposed this text for two reasons. on the one hand, the report makes recommendations to facilitate the social inclusion of illegal migrants, whereas the convention deals with the integration of disabled people. on the other hand, this report appears to be very critical of the member states, as regards their ability or even their willingness to deal with the problem of disability in their society, for the sole purpose of giving the european union legitimacy to deal with this issue. in summary, while we are obviously in favour of the adequate integration of disabled people into society and an improvement in their well-being, we are opposed to the strategy of the european commission for implementing this convention. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the european union as a whole. the 26 member states which have ratified the convention are also obliged to implement it. the convention covers a wide range of rights covering all areas of life. all disabled people must be able to live in a society where they have the same opportunities as other citizens. this is a condition for their integration.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report looks at the state of implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd), which the eu acceded to in 2010. considering that monitoring of the implementation of the convention is necessary for the proper implementation of the reforms to be carried out in the field of disability rights in the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, following the accession of the european union to the convention. all too often, disabled people are the victims of discrimination and violence that cannot be left unaddressed. it is essential that we implement all the measures necessary for their full integration into the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ by ratifying the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the european union has established a framework for promoting, respecting and monitoring the convention. the five bodies responsible - parliament, commission, ombudsman, fundamental rights agency and european disability forum - must work towards its implementation in european legislation and actions, thus aiming at a better integration of disabled people. several levels of action need to be considered. first, the labour market. it is necessary to ensure that businesses and administrations have the facilities to employ disabled people and are encouraged to do so. secondly, access to education. progress is still needed in terms of accessibility to infrastructure and recreational and sporting activities, which are also drivers of integration. the eu must also ensure that gender equality is better integrated into its disability policy. finally, there will be a need to ensure regular monitoring of the implementation of the convention and an evaluation of the progress made.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns a convention which aims to reduce inequalities between disabled people and other citizens by combating discrimination and by integrating them into all areas of society. the report goes further by addressing the issue of the social welfare of disabled people. the objectives of the text are unfortunately misguided, and the key themes of integrating people with disabilities into society and implementing the uncrpd are polluted by other issues, such as the inclusion of migrants, gender equality or free movement. the text also conveys a subjective and therefore confusing definition of disability. i therefore abstained on this text.
in writing. europe must be a leader in defending the rights of people with disabilities: that is what i have said today when i voted in favour of this report. to this end, the european institutions can first set a good example, in particular by making their premises more accessible and by making information available to the public in a more appropriate way. there should be no hierarchy of human rights. discrimination on the grounds of disability must be treated in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including multiple discrimination.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to reduce inequalities between disabled people and other citizens by combating discrimination and integrating them into all areas of society. it goes further by addressing the issue of the social welfare of disabled people. this logic of systematic integration into a normal environment is limited by the constraints of reality: in a school environment, it is the disabled parents themselves who argue that certain disabilities are better taken care of in a specialised environment. in professional circles, the ill-defined notion of 'reasonable' accommodation can be counterproductive. the report, which was largely amended in committee, also leads to a form of positive discrimination. finally, the report recommends exceptional measures (derogation from austerity measures in the health sector). while i am of course in favour of the proper integration of people with disabilities into society and an improvement in their well-being, i have opposed the implementation strategy proposed to the commission in this own-initiative report and the approach to disability itself that is made of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms helga stevens, on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this convention emphasises that persons with disabilities must enjoy the right to equality and non-discrimination at several levels, such as in marriage and the family, health, education and information, and protection against abuse and exploitation. these rights must be backed up by sound legislation in the member states. this report was adopted by a majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and in particular the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities, which is responsible for examining the implementation of the convention. the eu acceded to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) in december 2010. all 28 member states have signed the convention and 26 have ratified it. with ratification, the eu is now subject to review by the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities and is required to produce an initial report on the state of implementation of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is a humanist's all-purpose tool which unfortunately does not simply focus on its noble main subject: the improvement of the situation of disabled people.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. while i am of course in favour of the proper integration of disabled people into society and an improvement in their well-being, and while i am in favour of the implementation of an already signed convention, in compliance with international law, i am opposed to the implementation strategy proposed to the commission in this pro-european report. paragraph 116 proposes, for example, the creation of a european social protection area, whereas social security is the exclusive competence of the member states. i also have questions about paragraph 58 which stresses 'the need to mainstream disability issues in eu migration and refugee policies'.
in writing. ‒ the substance of the report is to apply the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd) in european law, to reduce inequalities between disabled people and other citizens, and to combat discrimination. however, the text distorts the subject by introducing new themes such as migrants, gender equality and free movement. it remains vague on the definition of disability, which is the heart of the subject, and defends a number of questionable positions such as the inability of the member states to deal with the issue of disability. i condemn the approach taken in this report and the commission's presumption of wanting to implement a un text. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this text. while the purpose of this text is entirely positive, since it aims to reduce inequalities and discrimination suffered by disabled people, while improving their social well-being, we are opposed to the other themes dealt with, such as the inclusion of migrants, gender equality or free movement. in addition, the concept of disability is not sufficiently precise, leading to misunderstanding about the appropriate treatment to be provided. this definition rejects the objective conception of disability, and thus contradicts the french law (article l 114 of the code of social action and families). we disapprove of the very critical view of the text towards the member states, questioning their willingness/capacity to improve the situation of persons with disabilities, as well as the further interference in state social prerogatives (in particular the collection of statistics) or the submission to the united nations by the control carried out by the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the text seeks to develop systematic integration in a normal environment without taking into account certain concrete elements. we also condemn the positive discrimination which sometimes emerges from this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010. the purpose of this report is to assess the union's progress in this area. it is based on the principle that there is no hierarchy of human rights. thus, discrimination on the grounds of disability must be treated in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including multiple discrimination. this approach is particularly important for women and children with disabilities, the elderly or those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities. the document calls on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to integrate disability into all eu laws, policies and strategies. i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ i am of course in favour of the adequate integration of people with disabilities into society and an improvement in their well-being. while we cannot oppose the implementation of an already signed convention, in compliance with international law, i am strongly opposed to the implementation strategy proposed in this own-initiative report and to the approach to disability itself that is made of it. that is why i voted against this report, its dogmatic view and its subjective conception of disability. in short, this text does not really serve people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ while we are in favour of better integration of people with disabilities and improvement of their well-being, we are opposed to this text and the approach it presents to this issue. firstly, the report advocates even more submission of the member states to the eu and undermines their sovereignty. the eu behaves like a state, boasts of state social prerogatives, and the report even goes so far as to present the commission as the only solution to the problem of disability. in addition, he uses the theme of people with disabilities to talk about other topics such as the integration of migrants, gender equality and free movement. but above all, it does not define the concept of disability, which seems to be based on a subjective conception, which is in opposition to the definition given by the french law.
in writing. ‒ while we are obviously in favour of the adequate integration of people with disabilities into society and an improvement in their well-being, we cannot oppose the implementation of an already signed convention, in compliance with international law, but we are strongly opposed to the implementation strategy proposed to the commission in this own-initiative report and to the approach to disability itself that is proposed. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which the european union acceded to in december 2010, and which was drafted in relation to persons with disabilities and their representative associations. the report aims in particular at better integration of disabled people into the labour market and at improving accessibility, particularly within the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i am of course in favour of the adequate integration of people with disabilities into society and an improvement in their well-being. i also support the implementation of an already signed convention, in compliance with international law. but i am opposed to the implementation strategy proposed to the commission in this own-initiative report and to the very approach to disability that is made of it. the text also highlights the eu's continuing interference in a total disregard for the sovereignty of the member states. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, to which the european union acceded in december 2010, and in particular the concluding observations submitted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, including the concluding observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the integration of disabled people into society is not only a development issue but also contributes to the respect of human rights. the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities' concluding observations on the implementation by the union of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, published in 2015, are a strong signal of the union's commitment to equality and respect for human rights and provide guidance for the union's legislative and policy actions. while the recommendations of the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities are to be welcomed, they must be fully implemented at eu level.
in writing. ‒ this report is the transposition of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the aim of this text was to reduce inequalities between disabled people and others, but the report is too ambiguous on the definition of the term 'disability'. there is no delimitation of the scope of the directive. in this report, the good objectives mentioned above are quickly diverted to address other issues such as the reception of migrants, gender equality and free movement. the report is wrong on these subjects as it is on the subject of disability. to introduce equality between disabled people and others, disabled people must be able to do everything and like everyone else, which is a dogmatic view of integration into society (forced inclusion in an open environment). while i am of course in favour of the proper integration of these disabled people, i am opposed to the commission's strategy in this area. i voted against it.
in writing. the integration of disabled people into our society remains a challenge. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, ratified by the eu in 2010, takes stock of its implementation and the final observations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the report finds, not surprisingly, that many disparities remain, particularly between member states. disabled people face multiple forms of discrimination and violence, which can add up to one another, particularly when they are women, children or refugees. the creation of a european framework could provide guarantees for the effective implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities, the promotion of their personal autonomy, accessibility, access to employment, social integration and autonomy, and the elimination of all forms of discrimination. the emphasis is also on accessibility to transport and buildings in new construction projects. this report is a proposal and shows the long way to go. i voted in favour, hoping that this type of proposal could be implemented by the member states. unfortunately, this is far from a priority and in reality the eu has little influence on these issues.
in writing. ‒ this is an objection to a commission proposal based on a positive (or even a targeted) opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa) on caffeine products. it is believed to have major therapeutic or health benefits, for concentration, endurance, etc. caffeine is often found in sweet or fatty foods. the rapporteur is concerned that the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work should be rejected. the commission is trying to reassure consumers by claiming that it will limit the caffeine-friendly labels to products intended for adults only, but it does not specify how it will force retailers to distribute them only to adults. in addition, the report points to the shortcomings in the efsa study: lack of gender distinction in the evaluation of effects on metabolism, lack of analysis of side effects, etc. the commission's proposal appears to be based on a few simple public health grounds. so naturally i supported that objection.
in writing. ‒ this objection concerns health claims that may be made for products containing caffeine. these products may be either solid foods or beverages. caffeine products do not need claims to be sold and are not really the work of french industrialists. the proposed claims (caffeine improves endurance, alertness and concentration) are a real problem with energy drinks as they can lead to dangerous consumption (especially when mixed with alcohol), however, the french coffee union told us that these claims were expected by companies (some of them french) to revive coffee consumption among young people and that no french company manufactures energy drinks. that is why i abstained from voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this objection which seeks to ban 'health claims' on products containing caffeine. the european food safety authority (efsa) has allowed claims such as 'caffeine helps to improve concentration' to be used. however, there is no information on the side effects of high caffeine intake, such as incontinence, or on the dangers of mixing caffeine and alcohol. however, these claims are necessary to revive coffee consumption among young people, who often prefer energy drinks to more serious health effects, a revival all the more important than expected by a significant number of companies.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an objection under article 106 on permitted health claims made on foods. this concerns products containing caffeine. efsa gave a favourable opinion on several claims (caffeine increases alertness, concentration, endurance, etc.). however, this opinion has several shortcomings (doses taken into account, no difference between men and women, no consideration of side effects, etc.). the rapporteur, however, points out that the consumption of these caffeine-based products also affects the youngest, that these are often very sweet drinks and that more than one third of young europeans are already overweight. the commission is introducing restrictions to protect this young audience.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with efsa's view on the benefits of caffeine, i do not think it is useful to promote it, especially among young people, because it is often included in sugary sodas, even though far too many young people are already overweight. caffeine products do not need positive health claims to sell, and therefore i vote against this objection.
in writing. ‒ this objection concerns health claims that may be made for products containing caffeine. the european food safety authority (efsa) has given a favourable opinion on claims that caffeine helps to improve concentration, alertness and helps to increase endurance capacity. the objection recalls that caffeine products contain a relatively high amount of sugar and that unmoderate consumption of these products can be dangerous to health with risks of overweight. however, the commission's draft provides for restrictions, inter alia by prohibiting the use of such claims on products targeting children and adolescents. that is why i abstained on this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's objection to the commission's amending regulation establishing a list of authorised health claims made on foods. this regulation would allow information to be provided to consumers on the potential for improving concentration and increasing endurance and physical capacity of caffeine products. energy drinks are caffeinated products. the problem is that such health information about energy drinks would likely influence young people's consumption. however, these drinks are very often warned against and are very sweet. increased consumption could be harmful to young people. so we have to be careful.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution proposes to oppose new health claims on the benefits of caffeine. in its proposal, the european commission authorises health claims for improved concentration and physical performance for caffeine-based products. these claims take the form of positive advertising on sugary drinks and energy drinks, of which young people are the main consumers. in view of the health risks associated with excessive consumption of sugar and caffeine, i supported this objection from the european parliament and asked the commission to review its draft act.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to refuse authorisation for caffeine-based products, such as energy drinks, to indicate health benefits on their packaging. i think that this objection sends a negative message to the european citizens. the european union is going through a difficult period and is increasingly being challenged. more and more people are denouncing the fact that it is too bureaucratic. it is therefore not desirable to add yet another new standard. the european union is accused of producing rules for everything, without taking into account the real expectations of citizens: let us not therefore regulate energy drinks! i believe that the ban on such health claims on caffeine products is not a matter for the european union but for the member states, who will be able to legislate taking full account of their consumption habits.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority (efsa) has given a favourable opinion on claims that caffeine helps to improve concentration, alertness, endurance abilities. the consumption of these caffeinated products, which are often very sweet drinks, is also affecting the youngest, a third of whom are already overweight. the commission's proposal does, however, provide for restrictions to protect this public. the efsa opinion has several shortcomings regarding the doses used for the study: no account of the differences in male/female metabolism, no information on the side effects of high caffeine consumption. since the above allegations are expected by french companies, which do not manufacture energy drinks, i preferred to abstain on this objection.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection, which opposes the proposal to allow health claims for increased endurance and concentration for caffeinated products (energy drinks in particular). such claims for these products would be dangerous in terms of public health. they would encourage excessive consumption of these energy drinks, especially among young people, even though they are also the subject of health warnings and should be consumed in moderation, for example, due to their high sugar content.
in writing. ‒ this objection concerns health claims that may be made for products containing caffeine. these products may be either solid foods or beverages. the european food safety authority (efsa) gave a favourable opinion on the following claims: 'caffeine helps to improve concentration', 'caffeine helps to improve alertness', 'caffeine helps to increase endurance capacity', 'caffeine helps to increase endurance performance'. the efsa opinion has several shortcomings: doses taken into account for the study, no account of differences in male/female metabolism, no information on the side effects of high caffeine consumption (e.g. incontinence). a previous efsa opinion was the subject of a motion for a resolution by sylvie goddyn, mireille d'ornano and myself calling for a ban on positive claims and for information on the risks of caffeine and alcohol mixtures. we are glad that the majority in parliament is following our suggestions. caffeine products do not need claims to be sold and are not really the work of french industrialists. i therefore supported this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission regulation on the list of permitted health claims made on foods. the commission proposal allows health claims for improved concentration and increased endurance and physical capacity from caffeinated products such as energy drinks. it seems absurd that such products, which are forced to warn of health risks associated with their consumption, should claim to offer health benefits. in vulnerable populations, this may lead to excessive consumption of such products, which are otherwise very high in fast sugars. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection in order to prevent caffeinated energy drinks from being used to promote alertness or concentration and to limit their consumption by children and adolescents who are particularly vulnerable. this could lead to an incentive to consume these drinks, which are also very popular among teenagers, even though they contain a lot of sugar.
in writing. - i abstained on that resolution. it is true that it calls for the protection of children from marketing that tries to make them absorb products containing a lot of caffeine, and it wants to protect the health of consumers more generally. but it does not condemn the commission's hesitations on this matter clearly enough.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the objection under article 106: authorised health claims made on food. this objection concerns health claims that may be made for products containing caffeine. these products may be either solid foods or beverages. the european food safety authority (efsa) has given a favourable opinion on the following claims: 'caffeine helps to improve concentration', 'caffeine helps to improve alertness'. "caffeine contributes to increased endurance capacity", "caffeine contributes to increased endurance performance". these claims are a real problem with energy drinks as they can lead to unsafe consumption (especially when mixed with alcohol). however, the french coffee union stresses that these allegations were expected by companies (some of them french) to revive coffee consumption among young people and that no french company manufactures energy drinks.
in writing. - i voted yes. this text disputes the claims of the european food safety authority (efsa) validated by the commission. they state that caffeine is good for health, helps concentration, improves alertness and increases endurance performance. however, they do not specify that caffeine products, both liquid and solid, are consumed in large quantities by young people and do not have the same effects on their health. the efsa opinion does not take into account differences in metabolism between ages, or the problems that caffeine can cause. i support this objection which brings these nuances.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this is an objection to health claims which could be made on products, solid or liquid, containing caffeine. for example: "caffeine helps to increase endurance capacity". on the one hand, these products affect and endanger the youngest, and on the other hand, the restrictions envisaged do not provide for a control measure for sale, only for the registration of the claim. we also find the study very imprecise and we know nothing about side effects, differences between sexes, etc. some members of our group had already tabled a motion for a resolution calling for a ban on positive claims and for information on the risks of mixtures containing caffeine and alcohol.
in writing. ‒ article 4 of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 required the commission to define, by 19 january 2009, specific nutritional profiles to be met by food before nutrition or health claims can be made. she just finally did. but the regulation it proposes allows health claims for the benefits of caffeine in energy drinks (redbull). the report opposes this regulation, arguing that these products can contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine for a 250 ml can of energy drink. they are already widely consumed, especially by young people (68% of adolescents regularly consume this type of drink). and yet, "energy drinks have been linked to headaches, insomnia and behavioral problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume them". i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ this objection concerns products containing caffeine. these products may be either solid foods or beverages. caffeine products do not need claims to be sold and are not really the work of french industrialists. that is why i voted for this objection.
in writing. ‒ we abstain on this objection even though we believe that caffeine products do not need to be subject to health claims to be sold. the european food safety authority (efsa) has given a favourable opinion for several of them: 'caffeine helps to improve concentration', 'caffeine helps to improve alertness', 'caffeine helps to increase endurance'. but the efsa opinion does not take into account the doses considered for the study, the differences in male/female metabolism and side effects. in addition, enf meps had previously tabled a motion for a resolution calling for a ban on positive claims and for information on the risks of mixing caffeine with alcohol.
in writing. ‒ the efsa opinion has several shortcomings: doses used for the study, lack of consideration of differences in male/female metabolism, lack of information on the side effects of high caffeine consumption (e.g. incontinence). i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ the objection relates to the commission's proposal to establish a list of permitted health claims for food other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to child development and health. in its proposal, the commission wanted to allow health claims for improved concentration and increased endurance and physical capacity for caffeine products. the effect of such a text would have been to allow products such as certain energy drinks, which are sometimes the subject of health warnings, to claim health benefits. i therefore voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ this objection concerns health claims that may be made for products containing caffeine. the european food safety authority (efsa) gave a favourable opinion on the following claims: 'caffeine helps to improve concentration', 'caffeine helps to improve alertness', 'caffeine helps to increase endurance capacity', 'caffeine helps to increase endurance performance'. the commission's draft provides for restrictions to protect young people. in these circumstances, i am sceptical about the way the restrictions will be applied and the information that will be given about the dangers of mixing alcohol and caffeine, so i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection which will prevent the manufacturers of energy drinks from mentioning the positive effects they claim to have on them, linked to the caffeine or sugar in the drinks. in fact, some manufacturers would like to see sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks claimed to promote alertness or concentration. on the contrary, my aim is to remind people of the risks of excessive consumption of these types of drinks and to protect the most vulnerable populations, especially young people, from excessive consumption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection to the european commission's proposal to allow health claims that caffeine promotes alertness and concentration. i do not think that these health claims should be used for energy drinks. the commission provides for an exception for products targeting children and adolescents, whereas energy drinks are mainly consumed by adolescents. the commission's condition of use is ineffective, because how can we control that these products are not sold to young people? the fact that these drinks are said to promote alertness and concentration may lead to an increase in their consumption and, as a result, to a likely exceeding of the recommended daily intake of sugar and caffeine. these drinks are high in sugar and can cause headaches, insomnia, and behavioral problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume them. given that already 25% of teenagers who consume energy drinks drink three or more cans in one sitting, it seems inappropriate to encourage even greater amounts, which is why i supported the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which opposes the proposal to allow health claims for increased endurance and concentration for caffeine-based products. this type of claim could apply, for example, to energy drinks; however, this type of drink is subject to health warnings and it is unthinkable that this product could then benefit from these health claims. remember that these drinks should be consumed in moderation, especially because of their high sugar content. such claims would then encourage their consumption and endanger the health of consumers, especially young people.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european food safety authority (efsa) considers that caffeine helps with 'concentration, alertness and endurance'. however, the rapporteur rightly points out that caffeine products affect the youngest and that these are drinks that are usually sweetened or very sweetened. some of these young people are overweight, so these drinks could be dangerous. the commission therefore provides for restrictions to protect the public. in what form? we don't know, and that's a problem. furthermore, the report does not take into account the metabolic differences between men and women, or the dangers of excessive caffeine consumption (incontinence). no claims need to be made on caffeinated products. however, these allegations are in favour of the french coffee market, which is also very responsible for the sale of these drinks. i therefore choose to abstain.
question for the council mr president, you refer back, mr (van miltenburg), to the decisions taken by france, particularly to combat fraudulent procedures. you think it's too much. what other measures could you suggest to prevent these fraudulent practices?
mr president, commissioner, i believe that there are two battles to be fought for greater justice and social equity in transport. on the one hand, we must urge our national authorities to enforce the existing rules rigorously. the european directives on secondment are clear: the minimum wage must be applied to all categories of transport, whether international or cabotage, in order to guarantee fair competition between carriers. but we must not stop there. it is urgent to work towards a european solution for our hauliers, one which is adapted to the highly mobile nature of their profession and which can offer them more harmonized social conditions. in the face of brexit and the worrying rise of populism, this is a prerequisite for the survival of the european project. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i am not in favour of administrative burdens. however, if we are to have a functioning common market, we need clear rules and, above all, we need to respect the regulations in force. this requires good information, and good information must be given in a language that can be understood. i think it is very important that these regulations are respected, and that is why we have ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. for once, i support an action of my government. it decided to apply the legislation on posted work to foreign road hauliers who carry out cabotage in france. for those who are merely passing through france on their journey, these provisions are not applied, nor for those who are making international transport to or from france. the commission is telling us about excessive measures, which are administratively disproportionate and which hinder free movement and the free provision of services. what are we talking about? where do we see a transport or traffic ban? for once, there is an attempt to combat social dumping and unfair competition in practice. using your own texts! the 1996 directive and the 2014 implementing text! in respect of those freedoms you keep whispering in our ears! i demand for my country the freedom to fight against all the abuses that your absurd and ideological texts on sacrosanct competition engender.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur on the alpine strategy, mercedes bresso, and to highlight the quality of her report. it is indeed as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs that i have the honour and pleasure of speaking on this subject, even though in my european constituency, far from the alps, the highest mountain is mont-saint-michel, which stands bravely at 80 metres high. i have tried to highlight in this report for opinion, together with my colleagues, the particular features of the alpine region and to make concrete proposals for employment. it is essential that our strategy focuses on strategic sectors and to this end we propose in particular the creation of regional research clusters involving companies. we must also encourage the development of training and training in line with the labour market. we can imagine, for example, specific training centres and a multilingual regional online employment centre. specific responses are also needed to the various challenges, such as seasonality and multi-activity. finally, mr president, i would like to point out that the free movement of persons is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of economic, social, territorial and environmental cohesion, particularly for crossborder workers.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report should normally be aimed at promoting sustainable development in the alpine region and there is a real lack of ecological ambition in the area of transport and the development of renewable energy. we will remain firm on major infrastructure projects, and the lyon-turin in particular. if our amendments are not accepted, we will refuse to adopt this report. we are asking that it should no longer be possible to launch an infrastructure project if there is already an infrastructure which is under-utilized, and this is the case for the lyon-turin line. in france itself, we have had confirmation recently from the court of auditors and the president of sncf, who believe that the lyon-turin is a complete blunder. environmentalists have been fighting for years against the lyon-turin, which is the six-times more expensive perpignan-figueras. the perpignan-figueras line had already cost 25 million euros per kilometer; the lyon-turin line will cost 200 million euros! today we see that the perpignan-figueras line is bankrupt and we find in the financial report of the sncf that the forecasts for passengers have been overestimated by 85% and those for freight by 92%. in the end, it is the taxpayers who pay the surcharge to the banks, while the european union, france and spain have contributed 58% of the budget. we are calling for sound management of public money, we are for the immediate modal shift, of course, which will remove the heavy pollution from the alpine valleys, but we are proposing cheaper and easier to implement solutions for which it is perfectly possible to use the existing railway infrastructure.
mr president, as the representative of the south-east of france, i am very much committed to the preservation of the second largest area of biodiversity in europe, the alpine region. for 25 years i have been advocating for the quality of life of the people and respect for the environment. i did not hesitate to denounce the lyon-turin line project in this respect. although the eu is funding this project at an excessive cost, the alpine strategy has the merit of advocating sustainable forest and ecosystem management and cross-border cooperation in managing climate and hydrogeological risks. similarly, the maintenance of crops and livestock in the mountains, the fight against rural exodus and the consumption of local products are a priority. however, the european union must respect the role of local authorities and international cooperation such as the 1991 alpine convention, which brings together several countries, including switzerland, which is not in the union. finally, in a word, let us remain vigilant in the face of the european union's macro-regional integration strategies, which are aimed at eventually replacing the framework of national and local actions.
mr president, small and mediumsized enterprises are the most important driver of growth and job creation in the eu. 23 million smes employ more than 100 million people and generate 85% of new jobs. in france, some 3.5 million smes and smes employ more than 6 out of 10 people. i have been a small business owner for 40 years and i have found that often the policy proposals are too far removed from the reality experienced by entrepreneurs. the report makes some good observations and recommendations, but we must not forget the partisan and ideological quarrels if we are to be effective. let us show the spirit of innovation and pragmatism which we ask of business leaders to prevent politics from lagging behind the economy. governments have a very narrow view of the economy: add taxes, impose laws, give subsidies. smes need a stable tax environment, less red tape, easier access to credit, but also smart dumping protections. that's the reality of need.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by tatjana ždanoka and vilija blinkevičiūtė, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the establishment of conditions in the labour market that promote work-life balance (2016/2017(ini)) (a8-0253/2016).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
this item has been closed.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, it is regrettable that the council is not here to discuss the latest g20 summit, which was rich in declarations of principle but not convincing in terms of facts. we can be glad - the commissioner explained this to us - that europe has succeeded in imposing its economic agenda. the road map adopted at the summit indeed covers a large part of the priorities proposed by our group of the european people's party and which have guided our work for months, namely justice, fiscal equity, to combat inequalities - you have spoken about this - the promotion of trade in the context of a regulated globalisation and a growth strategy based on the revival of investment and structural reforms. it could also be said that there is a small victory on the question of overproduction of steel at world level, since it has finally been brought to the table and it is not an accident that this subject has been discussed in china, a country whose subsidies are fuelling unbearable dumping, which is weighing down the european steel industry. despite these advances, i regret that many other crucial issues have been only half-heartedly addressed, if at all. among them is the refugee crisis. you have mentioned it, mr moscovici, but i think that, if we are to be optimistic, it is still very limited. climate change: of course, there was the announcement of the ratification of the paris agreement by the united states and china. however, we are waiting for the facts. there's also the war in syria. i would also like to mention another matter which was mentioned in a few lines in the final communiqué. it is the fight against antibiotic resistance: no concrete commitments have been made, even though it is one of the greatest public health scourges of our century. in the face of the challenges that require a major response, little is left of this summit. even the stated desire to combat populism, if it is positive, fails to reassure us completely. promises only bind those who believe in them, they say. we hope, however, that the promises made at the g20 will also bind those who made them, otherwise this summit will have served only one purpose: to demonstrate once again the power of china, which is emerging for better or for worse as an indispensable international player.
madam president, what can we learn from the g20 summit in china? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the chinese president has spoken out against any idea of protectionism or trade barriers. he's got his interests at heart, but we're not doing our best to protect them. on the ecological front, the signing of the paris agreement by the united states and china was given great prominence, but at the same time we learned that turkey was planning to build 80 coal-fired power stations and that china was not giving up its plan to build thermal power stations until 2030. the situation in syria has not improved much, despite the very fragile and very partial ceasefire that has taken place. at the g20, we'll have had a lot of communication, we'll have taken the field. we have spoken of morality, hand on heart, we have wanted to promote growth and above all to combat populism, as mrs grossetête has just been congratulated for. the problem is that fighting populism means fighting people more and more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the work of our commission, which is working very carefully to reveal the shortcomings of our industries and our institutions in the control of pollutant emissions. i regret, however, that our work on technical matters has too often neglected the fact that the revelations about volkswagen are part of an economic war between europe and america. when you want to kill your german shepherd, you accuse him of rabies! if the context does not excuse anything, it may help to understand the logic and implications of this malfunction. the background is the growing hostility to nitrogen dioxide in recent years, while european industry excels in the field of diesel engines, and the priority given by american legislation to pure gasoline. i therefore hope that the wording of our report will not be merely technical, but more offensive and political.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how difficult it is to legislate to ensure that driving is coordinated, to protect the health of all, to ensure that normal driving conditions are respected and, therefore, to recognise that driving in normal conditions is on the road, not on wheels in a test laboratory, without a seat or heating or air conditioning! it took ten years to arrive at real-world tests, which will be implemented in stages and with a conformity factor of 2.5. but it is even more difficult to enforce, control and sanction non-compliance with european legislation. today, the situation is incomprehensible to the citizens who are obliged to respect this european legislation. unfortunately, the chain of control and sanctions is not working, when it comes to public health. the image of europe and the european institutions that emerges from this is terrible and applies to all of us. because i am deeply european and convinced that the union must continue its political construction, i believe that it is our responsibility to draw the consequences of the scandal that could have been avoided here even if all the parties concerned had enforced the law, not just the law, but the whole law. it is more than ever time to recall our positions and the reason for the existence of this committee of inquiry: the defence of the public interest. the problem is not to shoot red bullets at industry, nor is it to cover up actions which put the economy above all values. the challenge is to restore consumer and public confidence. the challenge is to ensure cleaner mobility, while respecting public health and the environment, and at the same time preserving jobs. the challenge is to promote sustainable development that benefits all. that is what motivates my mission as the fictitious rapporteur for the emis committee for the socialist and democratic group and that is what motivates my mandate as an mep.
mr president, commissioner, it has been a year since the volkswagen scandal broke. it soon became the scandal of the global automobile industry. one year after the discovery of this massive fraud in the pollution test, nothing has been done, except the creation of our commission of inquiry. no major measures have been taken by the commission or the member states to enforce european pollution standards, to protect the health of citizens and to restore consumer confidence. for the past year we have let the european consumer be swindled while the americans are being reimbursed, we have let trash cans pollute our roads. you're going to launch infringement actions against the states that have licensed these vehicles, that's a first step. but what do you expect when i look at the french government protecting renault, one of the worst polluters in europe, to ensure there are no more diesel gates? we must radically reform the type-approval system, and finally create an independent european agency to certify vehicles and require automatic recall of vehicles if fraud is suspected. it is your duty to act now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. if we consider that innovation is a field that is constantly evolving, research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation should be constantly reviewed. to this end, a review of the strategies after 2017 seems mandatory if the efficiency and effectiveness of these cohesion policies is to be increased, taking into account in particular the lessons learned from the first years of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ while this report is about innovation and research, it could be expected to be critical of the austerity policies on public and private budgets that support these areas. the rapporteur believes that the governance of the strategy should be multi-level and compatible with the europe 2020 strategy. the member states must therefore stand back from the european commission, which is leading the strategy. the european union uses the sri-si strategy to strengthen direct relations between the european commission and the regions that have become the managing authority of the erdf, as well as trans-european cooperation at the expense of cooperation between nation states. it should also be noted that the sri-si strategy encourages thematic concentration, which has the consequence of focusing exclusively on large research clusters or clusters without supporting small structures and innovation clusters. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the sri-si increases the added value, impact and visibility of european funding. it is synonymous with a real return on investment even when public budgets and resources are strained.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing in this text to support the principle of labelling (innovative enterprises) or to address the thorny problem of patents and industrial espionage, which are major issues for the future of the economies of our member states. it should also be noted that the sri-si strategy favours thematic concentration, which has the consequence of focusing exclusively on large 'clusters' or research clusters without supporting small structures and innovation clusters. more generally, the sri-si strategy is used to strengthen direct relations between the european commission and the regions that have become erdf managing authorities, as well as trans-european cooperation, to the detriment of cooperation between nation states. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which purports to provide a favourable framework for research and innovation without really addressing the real problems that are holding back the expansion of this sector. in line with the juncker plan, the 'smart specialisation' prepared by brussels is supposed to boost the competitiveness of the european economy, in particular through the use and re-framing of part of the erdf. in addition to the fact that this instrument doubles as national research policies and state-region plan contracts, it mainly misses the strategic issues for this sector: nothing on the patent problem or on the problems of industrial espionage. moreover, the remedy is prescribed without knowing the cause of the problem, since no mention is made of the disastrous consequences of the austerity policies imposed by brussels on the research and innovation sector, a strategy which will only benefit the large research centres at the expense of small structures, and which has the sole purpose of consolidating the european commission's grip on the regions at the expense of large national strategies.
in writing. ‒ while this report has the merit of looking at the competitiveness of european union enterprises, particularly in terms of innovation and specialisation, it forgets the essence of the problem, namely the straitjacket of the single currency and the lack of economic protection at borders. these are the factors that make the margins of companies so low and do not allow them to invest enough in research and innovation. i am also in favour of leaving research policy to the member states, whereas this report tends to place these states under the commission's authority. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the merits of the research and innovation strategy for intelligent specialisation (ris-is), which, together with the juncker plan, is to be incorporated into the new european investment policy. this framework document guides the implementation of cohesion policy and the disbursement of the european regional economic development fund (erdf). he felt that the union's economic strategy should focus on specialisation and innovation in order to improve the competitiveness of our smes. overall, the sri-si is in line with national research policies and especially with state-region plan contracts. it does not criticise or challenge the austerity policies on public and private budgets supporting research and innovation policies. these strategies also rely on a multi-level governance model to the detriment of national governments. the european union is using the sri-si strategy to strengthen its direct relations with local authorities. finally, it should be noted that the sri-si strategy favours thematic concentration, which has the consequence of focusing exclusively on large research clusters or clusters without supporting small structures and innovation clusters. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ for the union to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020, regions need to put in place research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. it is important that regions use structural funds such as the erdf to invest in research, development and innovation. such a strategy will stimulate entrepreneurship, education and innovation. the regions will then be able to identify their potential and assets so that they can develop and specialise. the intelligent specialization platform (s3) has a key role to play in this process. it is imperative that strategies are properly monitored in order to assess their real benefits. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report gives the first conclusions and the european parliament's position on research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. a key element of the new cohesion policy 2014-2020, the sri-si strategies aim to better mobilise european funds by encouraging regions to invest in their strengths to boost growth and jobs. among the main measures, the report proposes to initiate a reflection on improving the implementation of these strategies. considering that the specific features of the territories are essential components of the economic development model of the regions, such as mountain areas, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported this text on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (sri-si). in order to ensure the most efficient use of european funds towards priority actions, it is essential that smart specialisation strategies (sri-si) are put in place. these smart specialisation strategies must then be developed in conditions conducive to the improvement of competitiveness and innovation in europe, which must be encouraged by a synergy of the different instruments at our disposal.
in writing. ‒ this text is the guiding principle for the implementation of the european fund for economic and regional development (efrd). the latter aims to establish a direct relationship between the european union (the commission) and the local authorities, thereby bypassing the member states. moreover, this framework programme, which is in line with the europe 2020 strategy, does not in any way call into question the austerity policies imposed on both public and private budgets in europe. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it should be noted that the sri-si strategy favours thematic concentration, which has the consequence of focusing exclusively on large research clusters or clusters without supporting small structures and innovation clusters
in writing. ‒ the strategy presented in this report is part of the european fund for strategic investments (juncker plan). this framework document guides the implementation of cohesion policy and the disbursement of the european regional economic development fund (erdf). it considered that the union's economic strategy should focus on specialisation and innovation in order to improve the competitiveness of our economy. however, there is no provision to support the principle of labelling (innovative enterprises) or to address the problem of patents and industrial espionage, which are strategic issues. moreover, there is no criticism or challenge of austerity policies on public and private budgets supporting research and innovation policies. the french state, caught between the european union and the regions, is not the leader in implementing this strategy, which is in line with guidelines decided by the european commission. the european union uses the sri-si strategy to strengthen direct relations between the european commission and the regions that have become the managing authority of the erdf, as well as trans-european cooperation at the expense of cooperation between nation states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ramón luis valcárcel siso on research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. these strategies encourage the different european regions to identify their strengths in order to best target eu funds and thus maximise their contribution to growth. the report draws early lessons from the implementation of these strategies and makes several common sense recommendations for the future. for example, it stresses the importance of better matching education and research to real needs, so that innovation responds to demand and leads to growth. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the valcárcel siso report which supports smart specialisation strategies and calls for lessons to be learned from the implementation of these strategies in order to achieve better results in the future. research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris-is) are an ex ante conditionality for the allocation of esi funds. the sri-si promotes thematic concentration and strategic programming of the funds. depending on the strengths and advantages of each region, these strategies aim to generate growth in all european regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not want to call into question the austerity policies on public and private budgets supporting research and innovation policies. on the other hand, i regret that the european union is using the sri-si strategy to strengthen direct relations between the european commission and the regions that have become erdf managing authorities, to the detriment of cooperation between nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. this text highlights the merits of the research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation. it does not contain any criticism or challenge of austerity policies on public and private budgets supporting research and innovation policies. the governance of the strategy shall be multi-level and compatible with the europe 2020 strategy. this means that the french state is not leading the way in implementing this strategy, which is in line with guidelines decided by the european commission. the european union uses the sri-si strategy to strengthen direct relations between the european commission and the regions that have become the managing authority of the erdf, as well as trans-european cooperation at the expense of cooperation between nation states. there is nothing in the text to support the principle of labelling (innovative enterprises) or to address the thorny problem of patents and industrial espionage, which are major issues for the future of the economies of our member states.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the merits of the research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation. it considers that in terms of economic strategy, the eu must focus on specialisation and innovation in order to improve european economic competitiveness. however, there are several negative aspects to these statements. firstly, the text does not provide support for labelling, does not address the issue of patents and industrial espionage. it also tends to disregard the national level in favour of a direct relationship between the commission and the regions, which have become the managing authority of the erdf (european regional development fund). finally, there is no question of the monetary policy of the european central bank and the austerity policies that have been pursued for years. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of europe 2020, each member state defined its national and regional innovation strategies for smart specialisation (sri-si) in 2014. these aim to increase synergies between different european, national and regional policies, in order to invest in key areas such as education, innovation, social inclusion and energy. the report mainly identifies areas where improvements can be made in smart specialisation. it also stressed the need for complementarity between the european structural funds, the horizon 2020 strategy and the european fund for strategic investments (juncker plan) in order to stimulate innovation. i am voting for this report which promotes the optimisation of the use of european funds in the service of local growth.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this document is the guiding principle for the implementation of the european fund for economic and regional development (efrd). in its implementation, it aims to establish a direct relationship between the european union (the commission), thus bypassing the member states. moreover, this framework programme, which is in line with the europe 2020 strategy, does not in any way call into question the austerity policies imposed in europe on both public and private budgets.
in writing. ‒ smart specialisation aims to better mobilise all structural funds for 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth', by encouraging regions to adopt economic development models adapted to their strengths and by strengthening synergies between european policies in favour of research and innovation. these research and innovation strategies promote the thematic concentration and strategic programming of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds). the report welcomes the implementation of these strategies, while emphasising the role of public services in the effectiveness of these strategies. the administrative capacity of the authorities and the stability of the public service are decisive for the effectiveness of the implementation of the strategies. less pontifical chatter than usual, with an acknowledgement of the role of the state. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing in this text to support the principle of labelling (innovative enterprises) or to deal with the problem of patents and industrial espionage, which are major issues for the future of the economies of our member states. the whole strategy is a direct result of the europe 2020 strategy and is directly attributable to the commission. as such, the french state is not in control of its own destiny in this area. finally, the sri-si strategy encourages thematic concentration, which has the effect of focusing exclusively on exclusive research clusters without supporting small structures and innovation clusters. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the merits of the research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation. it does not criticise or question the austerity policies and their impact on public and private budgets supporting research and innovation policies. the french state is not leading the way in implementing the europe 2020 strategy, which is in line with guidelines decided by the european commission. the european union is using the sri-ri strategy to strengthen direct relations between the european commission and the regions that have become erdf managing authorities, as well as trans-european cooperation at the expense of cooperation between nation states. the sri-ri strategy promotes thematic concentration, which has the consequence of focusing exclusively on large research clusters or clusters without supporting small structures and innovation clusters. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report praises the research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation as part of the new european investment policy. this report ignores the disastrous austerity policies imposed on research and national budgets. this strategy is based on guidelines decided by the european commission and not by the states. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. the establishment of new and sustainable growth, based in particular on research and innovation, is fundamental in a european union plagued by unemployment and unfair competition from emerging countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the valcárcel siso report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (sri-si). the sri-si promotes thematic concentration and strategic programming of the structural and investment funds and leads to a more focused approach to the effectiveness of their implementation.
in writing. ‒ the report praises the research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation, which is to be integrated, together with the european fund for strategic investments (juncker plan), into the new european investment policy. it guides the implementation of cohesion policy and the disbursement of the european regional economic development fund (erdf). it considered that the union's economic strategy should be based on specialisation and innovation. there is no provision for the principle of labelling (innovative enterprises) or the difficult problem of patents and industrial espionage. there is no criticism of austerity policies. the governance of the strategy shall be multi-level and compatible with the europe 2020 strategy. the guidelines are decided by the european commission, not by the states. the european union uses the sri-si strategy to strengthen direct relations between the european commission and the regions, which have become erdf managing authorities, to the detriment of cooperation between nations. it should also be noted that the sri-si strategy favours thematic concentration, which has the consequence of focusing exclusively on large research clusters or clusters without supporting small structures. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for intelligent specialisation (sri-si). these strategies, which are a prerequisite for the allocation of european structural and investment funds, promote the programming and thematic concentration of funds. this text draws conclusions from the initial implementation of these strategies and reaffirms its support for the european union to strengthen the sri-si strategies in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the european parliament's initial conclusions and position on the sri-si strategies. sri-si strategies mean research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation and are an ex ante conditionality for the allocation of funding. they promote the thematic concentration and strategic programming of the esi funds and lead, on the ground, to a more focused approach to the effectiveness of their implementation. i voted in favour of this text, which sends a signal of the european union's support for the sri-si strategies, calls for certain improvements and thus for better results in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation, which is to be integrated into the new european investment policy, together with the european fund for strategic investments (juncker plan). this framework document guides the implementation of cohesion policy and the disbursement of the european regional economic development fund (erdf). overall, the sri-si is in line with national research policies and especially with state-region contracts. this report does not present any criticism of austerity policies on public and private budgets supporting research and innovation policies. the governance of the strategy shall be multi-level and compatible with the europe 2020 strategy. this means that the french state is not leading the way in implementing this strategy, which is in line with guidelines decided by the european commission. it should also be noted that the sri-si strategy encourages thematic concentration, which has the consequence of focusing exclusively on large research clusters or clusters without supporting small structures and innovation clusters. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, considering that european territorial cooperation fully contributes to the improvement of the economic, social and territorial potential of our regions. i regret the outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 as regards the appropriations for european territorial cooperation which have been sharply reduced. in this resolution we call on the commission and the member states to maintain european territorial cooperation as an instrument of european integration. we also call for european territorial cooperation to be given a more specific role in cohesion policy after 2020 and for its budget to be increased for the next programming period.
in writing. ‒ this report encourages the use of territorial cooperation to finance the reception of illegal immigrants, in particular through interreg programmes; these programmes are also intended to facilitate labour mobility within the union. in addition, territorial cooperation is used to finance the european union's neighbourhood and enlargement policies. it emphasises thematic concentration, which leaves behind more local projects, leading to increased regional disparities. in addition, the report calls for a rapid increase in the budget for territorial cooperation, which already stands at €10.1 billion for the 2014-2020 programming period, or 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget, while acknowledging that there is no reliable quantitative data demonstrating the effectiveness of these territorial cooperation programmes. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague iskra mihaylova because it clearly shows that interreg has proved its effectiveness. it also highlights its potential beyond regional policy, in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, culture, health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which aims to strengthen european territorial cooperation by encouraging 'the reception of migrants' by increasing the budget which already stands at €10.1 billion. the place of illegal immigrants is not in reception centres, it is in return charters.
in writing. ‒ i was vehemently opposed to this report which uses the well-known dialectic of positive concepts in themselves - in this case cooperation - for deviant aims. indeed, under the pretext of improving european territorial cooperation, this is in fact a lever towards the federalisation of the eu. the so-called cooperation would thus be used to erase national frontiers, in favour of unfair projects such as the financing of the endless reception of migrants; the movement of workers in the form of posted workers, which, as we know, promotes social dumping and the precariousness of national workers; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the development of the european social model is based on the principle of subsidiarity. in the very details, this report is scandalous, since it also calls for an increase in the budget for territorial cooperation, which already amounts to €10.1 billion, and at the same time, national public policies are subject to the pressure of austerity policies led by brussels. the show's central point is these institutionalised platforms that would use taxpayers' money for pro-eu propaganda.
in writing. ‒ while it is always useful to ask about and share good practice, this report is aimed at weakening the role of states in favour of the eu's supranational power. it deals with eu enlargement, the reception of migrants and links with local authorities. without at any time justifying the effectiveness of this policy, it calls for an increase in the budget, which is already very substantial, and asks the states to promote it. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen territorial cooperation with the aim of reducing the influence of national borders within the european union. although territorial cooperation can encourage the proliferation of crossborder projects, it is an additional step towards the federalisation of the european union. that is why i opposed this report, which encourages the use of territorial cooperation to finance not only the union's neighbourhood and enlargement policy but also the reception of illegal migrants, in particular through interreg programmes. moreover, these new guidelines will require an increase in the budget for territorial cooperation, which already amounts to more than €10 billion for the period 2014-2020. while there is no reliable quantitative data to demonstrate the effectiveness of territorial cooperation programmes, member states are asked to promote this policy by funding the creation of institutionalised communication platforms. finally, the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes is based on multi-level governance with increased participation of local authorities in decision-making bodies to the detriment of national governments. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation allows regions to cooperate and exchange good practice. they will then be able to pursue the objectives of cohesion policy as effectively as possible. european territorial cooperation is divided into three strands: crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation. this gives project promoters the opportunity to join forces to finance their projects in different fields such as employment, the environment or tourism. it is important that this cooperation should receive appropriate political and financial support to achieve its objective. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report takes stock of the european territorial cooperation policy (interreg), the aim of which is to strengthen and develop neighbourhood relations between local authorities or territorial authorities in several states. the report recommends in particular the development of several key sectors such as connectivity, innovation, knowledge, culture and education. i have supported this report, considering that cooperation between countries belonging to the same geographical area, such as mountainous regions, is a key element in establishing a real territorial development policy.
in writing. i supported this text on good practice in european territorial cooperation. the interreg programme is undoubtedly contributing to the strengthening of territorial cohesion in europe, in particular by promoting interregional and cross-border connectivity. it was particularly important to underline the need to pay particular attention to projects targeting island regions, outermost and sparsely populated regions, as well as mountain and rural regions in order to meet our objectives under the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. finally, cross-border innovation policies, including joint research and mobility programmes, must be encouraged to foster competitiveness and growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ the european union's territorial policy already absorbs €10.1 billion, or 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget for the period 2014-2020. in addition to the fact that its effectiveness has never been demonstrated, it is based on an increasing regionalisation of the union to the detriment of the nation states. in this case, the multi-territorial cooperation programme is based on increased involvement of local authorities in decision-making bodies. finally, this programme encourages many of the policies we are opposed to, in particular the funding of the reception of migrants, or the neighbourhood policy and the enlargement of the european union. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ votes against: acknowledges that there is no reliable quantitative data demonstrating the effectiveness of these territorial cooperation programmes.
in writing. ‒ what is the purpose of european territorial cooperation if not to blur the borders of the states even more and to serve, as the rapporteur says, as 'laboratories of european integration'? this is a piquant formula at a time when the euro and european policies are fostering divergence between economies and increasing social and territorial disparities. more striking is the enthusiasm for the effectiveness of crossborder cooperation and its added value, which is accompanied by the admission of the lack of reliable data and evidence. in short, this report is first and foremost an act of faith which calls for even more investment in projects that do not work well, are useless or even harmful and create disastrous effects. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the progress made through european territorial cooperation (the interreg programme), which is very useful, especially in border regions. this programme brings together a series of high value-added projects with a cross-border dimension in the key areas of connectivity, cultural innovation and education.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen territorial cooperation, the overall objective of which is to reduce the influence of national borders within the european union. this is neither a legitimate nor a timely objective. the report also opens the door to auxiliary schemes, encouraging the use of territorial cooperation to finance the reception of illegal migrants, in particular through interreg programmes. finally, as regards social dumping, these programmes are also designed to facilitate labour mobility within the union. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs iskra mihaylova, on european territorial cooperation. this regional policy objective promotes cooperation between different regions of the union by financing projects that go beyond national borders in the fields of employment, transport, the environment and tourism. because of its geographical position, france is very much involved in territorial cooperation. the pays de la loire region is also involved in two transnational programmes (north-west europe and the atlantic area) and one interregional programme (interreg europe). the mihaylova report takes stock of the progress made in territorial cooperation and points to several areas for improvement, particularly in terms of simplification. it calls for this cooperation to be continued and extended, which is why i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives an update on european territorial cooperation. established some 25 years ago, european territorial cooperation remains a key instrument for achieving territorial cohesion through a series of programmes and projects with high european added value, with the greatest impact in europe's 60 border regions. it has enabled considerable progress in a number of key sectors connectivity, innovation and knowledge, culture and education.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, under the pretext of strengthening european territorial cooperation, it calls for an increase in the budget, which already stands at €10.1 billion for 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the stated aim is to strengthen territorial cooperation, and thus to reduce the impact of national borders within the eu. the report distills the following aspects: the use of territorial cooperation to finance the reception of illegal migrants; increased participation of local authorities in decision-making bodies, to the detriment of national governments; the desire to create institutional platforms for cooperation to promote europeanism at the expense of the taxpayer, etc. this is despite the fact that there is no reliable quantitative data demonstrating the effectiveness of these territorial cooperation programmes. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ european territorial cooperation aims to solve problems common to the eu as a whole through the implementation of shared objectives and the exchange of good practice between regions. with a budget of €10 billion for the period 2014-2020, it is one of the two objectives of the current cohesion policy programming. despite its importance, this policy has suffered budget cuts during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. this report reminds the commission and the member states of the importance of preserving european territorial cooperation and of giving it a distinct role in cohesion policy post 2020. the latter should be accompanied by an increase in the budget allocated to it for the next programming period. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which supports the powerful tool of european integration that is territorial cooperation.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the european union's territorial policy already absorbs €10.1 billion, or 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget for the period 2014-2020. in addition to its unproven effectiveness, it is based on an increasing regionalisation of the european union to the detriment of the nation states. in this case, the multi-territorial cooperation programme is based on increased involvement of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. finally, this programme encourages many of the policies we are opposed to, in particular the funding of the reception of migrants, or the neighbourhood policy and the enlargement of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the concept of european territorial cooperation covers cooperation between regions, between crossborder regions and between large economic areas or basins such as the 'alpine region'. but this is the territorial formula of generalised competition. the report calls for reducing regional disparities and developing such cooperation. i can't believe this! it already exists; it's called the state or the nation. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. at this level of generality, who could argue against it? but this is a patchwork of the consequences of the commission's policy of 'competition between the territories'. to counter the economic crisis and unemployment, the underlying idea is therefore to encourage the unemployed to 'mobility', to go and look for work elsewhere. as a freelance writer? where the structural funds would need more budget, the policy is to promote public-private partnerships which ruin and empty the public authorities of their competences, to promote private loans (juncker funds) to the detriment of cohesion policy. i note the good intentions of the report but denounce this general framework of competition; i'll hold off.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen territorial cooperation, the overall objective of which is to reduce the influence of national borders within the european union. although territorial cooperation can promote the multiplication of crossborder projects, it is above all in this report an additional step towards the federalisation of the european union. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on european territorial cooperation aims to strengthen territorial cooperation, the overall objective of which is to reduce the influence of national borders within the european union by increasing crossborder projects. the aim is therefore to abolish nations in the name of the european interest in order to complete european federalism (cooperation is encouraged to finance the reception of migrants, the eu's neighbourhood policies, etc.). this budget already stands at €10.1 billion, but it needs to be increased. in view of these factors, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on european territorial cooperation. this report takes stock of this positive policy for the development of the european union. however, i regret that there is a provision calling for measures to support job creation for migrants. such a provision is yet another air-pull to illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mihaylova report on european territorial cooperation, in particular good practices and new measures. it is a review of cooperation that started 25 years ago and has made considerable progress in 60 border regions. the position of the epp group is well reflected in this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen territorial cooperation, the overall objective of which is to reduce the influence of national borders within the european union. although territorial cooperation can promote the multiplication of crossborder projects, it is above all in this report an additional step towards the federalisation of the european union. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the progress made by european territorial cooperation. as part of its policy of supporting the regions of the member states, the eu promotes cooperation between countries (whether crossborder, transnational or interregional), which is characterised in particular by joint projects in the fields of employment, transport, tourism or the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on european territorial cooperation and more specifically on good practices and new measures. european territorial cooperation, also known as interreg, was set up some 25 years ago and remains a key instrument for achieving territorial cohesion through a series of programmes and projects with high european added value and with a particular focus on the benefits for border regions. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which supports european territorial cooperation and recalls that it has made considerable progress in a number of key areas such as innovation, knowledge, culture and education.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen territorial cooperation, the overall objective of which is to reduce the influence of national borders within the european union. although territorial cooperation can promote the multiplication of crossborder projects, it is above all in this report an additional step towards the federalisation of the european union. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. this interim report sets out the methods and hearings which constitute parliament's inquiry into the volkswagen scandal. this report encourages representatives of the institutions and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith to ensure that all the elements necessary for a neutral and effective investigation are gathered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is intended to keep up the pressure on the member states and the european commission, which are dragging their feet in coming to explain themselves to the european parliament. the results of the surveys carried out in the various member states are also still pending. while it is important to establish the responsibilities of the various institutions in the scandal, it is also important to identify the malfunctions that have allowed it to happen. european legislation clearly defines what is prohibited, but its effective implementation and enforcement are sometimes lacking: the commission is sending the ball back to the member states, who are sending the ball back to the manufacturers, demonstrating that europe is sorely lacking in a coherent overall framework to ensure compliance with standards that limit pollution. if europe is able to produce legislation for harmonised control for railways, it should be able to do so for cars. we remain committed to the imminent revision of the european vehicle typeapproval framework: setting and enforcing high emission standards is a priority. this is about saving lives!
in writing. ‒ in 2015, revelations by us researchers of software cheating to mask nitrogen dioxide emissions from diesel engines led to the volkswagen scandal. this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions. on 17 december 2015, a committee of inquiry was set up in the european parliament to examine allegations of breaches of union law or maladministration in the application of union law. this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector. the hearings themselves will continue until autumn 2016, after which meps will work on the final report. this short and very neutral text encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith, so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work to examine allegations of breach of eu law concerning the world's leading car manufacturer volkswagen, which allegedly used rigging software to mask nitrogen dioxide emissions in order to export more to the united states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this interim report which details the methodology and timetable for this special committee on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the commission was set up in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, which revealed the fraud of the world's leading car manufacturer for export purposes. the report does not deal with the substance, as meps will be working on the final report until the end of the year. i can therefore only support the rapporteur's desire for genuine cooperation between the commission and the competent authorities of the member states in order to shed light on this matter.
in writing. ‒ it is particularly useful to ask about the practices of car manufacturers in relation to carbon dioxide emissions and about possible cheating by manufacturers in relation to carbon dioxide checks. this report, which encourages the committee of inquiry appointed for this purpose to continue its work and calls on the committee and the member states to cooperate in good faith, is a step in the right direction. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ on 18 september 2015, the volkswagen scandal broke, following the revelations by us researchers of software cheating to hide the nitrogen dioxide emissions of diesel engines. this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions. the parliament then decided on 17 december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the allegations of breach of union law. this interim report details the methodology of the parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector. only after the hearings have been closed, in the autumn of 2016, will meps start drafting the final report. i voted in favour of this report which simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to work together so that no element of the inquiry escapes the commission.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents a mid-term review of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis committee), of which i am an alternate member. the commission was set up in march last year in the wake of the volkswagen scandal to shed light on the fact that vehicle emissions in europe are exceeding the limits. the co-rapporteurs from the epp and alde groups report on the work carried out during the first six months, during which 37 hearings were held with political representatives, representatives of the automotive sector and members of civil society. the report also sets out the work programme until spring 2017, when we will present our conclusions. in support of these objectives, i supported this interim report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector carried out in the european parliament following the volkswagen scandal. in order to carry out this investigation into alleged breaches of european law, the european union and its member states must be transparent so that the committee in charge of the investigation can have access to the necessary information.
in writing. ‒ this is a methodological interim report by the european parliament on the car emissions survey. the commission of inquiry was set up following the volkswagen scandal. on 18 september 2015, it was revealed that the multinational company had used fraudulent methods to falsify the measurements of nitrogen dioxide emissions from diesel engines in its vehicles. this subterfuge allowed volkswagen to comply with us legislation, making its products eligible for export to the us. this progress report paves the way for the continuation of the work of the committee of inquiry, including hearings, until autumn 2016. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this short and very neutral text simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work, invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith, so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee.
in writing. ‒ this report is only a progress report, essentially technical, of the committee of inquiry set up by parliament after the so-called volkswagen scandal, or 'dieselgate'. it is an opportunity to recall the weakness of the powers of a european parliament committee of inquiry which, fortunately, is not the us congress, and therefore has neither the capacity to compel individuals to testify nor the capacity to sanction them in the event of non-appearance or partial or false statements. perhaps that's why his investigations are so technical. because, beyond the real responsibilities of the german manufacturer, the volkswagen case is part of what can be considered a real economic war with the united states, with the negotiations of the transatlantic treaty as a backdrop. the battle of sanctions is raging today on both sides of the ocean: apple and amazon against bnp, volkswagen and deutsche bank... a case like this could have killed a less solid company. it will probably be as bad as diesel, which is very popular in europe, and will be costly for the whole automobile industry. these aspects must also be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this interim report of the committee of inquiry gives an account of the places where the hearings were held. it is important to continue work on this subject in order to understand the reasons for the delay in introducing new tests to reduce the difference between actual emissions on the road and laboratory-tested emissions. but it is already clear that the priority given to the fight against co2 emissions has for a long time eclipsed the fight against nox, which is also very harmful to health. it has to evolve ! innovation will also help us to meet new standards.
in writing. ‒ this short and very neutral text simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work, invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith, so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee. i have, however, reminded the house that our report must be political and not merely technical. the united states is waging an economic war on the european automobile industry, and particularly on the german one, against diesel engines. i voted in favour of the interim report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pablo zalba bidegain on the work of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector. this report gives an overview of the hearings and sets out the work programme of the committee of inquiry for the coming weeks. this is an important work that needs to be done to shed light on the volkswagen cheating and above all to come up with solutions so that such a scandal does not happen again. to this end, my group will be vigilant to ensure that the committee of inquiry is not exploited or diverted from its objectives. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this interim report on the work of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis). in december 2015, following the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches of union law or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurement in the automotive sector. in its final report, the committee of inquiry will be required to make any recommendations it deems necessary in this area. it is important that parliament should be involved in shedding light on this scandal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and calls on the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee.
in writing. ‒ this interim report of the commission of inquiry into the volkswagen scandal calls for better cooperation from the commission in the provision of documents. these could shed light on the responsibility of the diesel emissions scandal. with evidence growing that the commission was aware of software that was rigging laboratory pollution tests, the european parliament's inquiry committee is now looking into who blocked the revelations within the commission. to this end, the committee of inquiry held several hearings. the commission's own staff have been alerted to the software well before the scandal broke, while some commissioners seem to have tried to silence the concerns. all this confirms the need to continue the work of this parliamentary committee of inquiry in order to clarify the responsibilities for the political cover-up of this enormous industrial and health scandal. that is why i supported this interim report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector. the hearings themselves will continue until autumn 2016, after which meps will work on the final report. the text voted in committee on 13 july does not therefore give any guidance on the use of funds. the text simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee.
in writing. ‒ following the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament set up this ad hoc committee in december 2015 to investigate volkswagen's fraudulent practices in the calculation of nitrogen dioxide emissions from its diesel engines. this very neutral interim report merely encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work. it also called for maximum cooperation between the european commission and the competent authorities of the member states, so that no element was missed in the investigation. i supported this initiative for transparency and justice by voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this interim report by the european parliament's committee of inquiry into emissions measurement in the automotive sector (emis) follows the volkswagen scandal that broke at the end of 2015. a vast software system for cheating eu pollution tests was found on 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide. in view of the issues of public interest, public health and the environment, i am voting in favour of this report by the emis committee of inquiry, so that the full light is shed on this scandal of fraud in pollution tests.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this is a methodological interim report by the european parliament on the emission survey in the automotive sector. the establishment of this committee of inquiry follows the volkswagen scandal, which on 18 september 2015 revealed the use of fraudulent maneuvers by the multinational to falsify the measurements of nitrogen dioxide emissions from the diesel engines of its vehicles. this subterfuge allowed volkswagen to comply with us legislation, making its products eligible for export to the us. this progress report paves the way for the continuation of the work of the committee of inquiry, including hearings until autumn 2016.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breach of union law or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national or union courts. the report presented to us aims to give a brief overview of the activities of the said commission since its establishment on 2 march 2016 and an idea of the work plan for the first half of the term of office of the said commission. the commission has already held numerous hearings, the reports of which are publicly available on a dedicated website. i am voting for this report and i encourage the committee of inquiry to continue its work with rigor.
in writing. ‒ following the volkswagen scandal, parliament decided to set up a committee of inquiry. this is a short and neutral interim report which aims to ensure good cooperation between the different competent authorities. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ on 18 september 2015, the volkswagen scandal erupted following the revelations by us researchers of software cheating to hide the nitrogen dioxide emissions of diesel engines. this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions. the parliament then decided on 17 december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breach of union law or maladministration in the application of union law. this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector. the hearings themselves continue 'until autumn 2016', after which meps will work on the final report. therefore no substantive guidance is given. this short and very neutral text simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith, so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute the parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector set up in the wake of the volkswagen scandal. these hearings will continue until autumn 2016. the text merely encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this text relates to the work of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. it is a summary of the commission's hearings and has no normative value. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the inquiry into emission measurement in the automotive sector (emis), which is responsible for collecting information on errors or misuse in the application of the european directive. this interim report presented the measures already adopted and those planned, stated the loyal cooperation of the commission in its work and asked the states to provide the commission with the political and technical support it needed to carry out its task.
in writing. ‒ this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector. the hearings themselves will continue until autumn 2016, after which meps will work on the final report. the text voted in committee on 13 july therefore does not contain any substantive guidance. this short and very neutral text simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith, so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector (emis), of which i am a member. the text voted on here refers to the mid-term work, which is essentially technical in that it traces the hearings of experts carried out so far. the commission was established in december 2015 following the volkswagen scandal. through the work of this committee, my aim is to remind the public of the importance of protecting motorists and citizens from such practices and then to improve testing procedures, in line with the continuing struggle to maintain european, and in particular french, automotive competitiveness and know-how. this is in line with the recommendations made in my cars 2020 report on the future of the automobile.
in writing. ‒ the committee of inquiry into vehicle emissions fraud is only halfway through its work, but one element is already clear to its members: the problem is not so much the european legislation that regulates emissions as its effective implementation and the monitoring of its proper application. as legislators, it is our responsibility to shed light on the dieselgate scandal, because the confidence of our citizens in europe is eroding a little more every day. we must restore that trust, which is essential for european cohesion. it is therefore essential to expose all the political and institutional failings that have made such a scandal possible. more broadly, the challenge is to ensure cleaner mobility, while respecting public health and the environment, while preserving jobs, ultimately to promote sustainable development that benefits everyone. in my role as the fictitious rapporteur for the emis committee for the socialist and democratic group, the defence of the public interest is my main motivation, and i will continue to work in this direction until the parliamentary inquiry is completed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was drawn up by the parliamentary committee of inquiry into automobile emissions, set up by parliament on 17 december 2015 and established on 2 march following the volkswagen scandal. since its establishment, the emis committee of inquiry has held 12 meetings and interviewed 37 experts; a study was also commissioned on the differences in emission measurements between type-approval tests and real driving. this text, which is a mid-term report of the emis committee, calls once again on the commission and the member states to facilitate the investigation in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation as defined by the european rules. it is important that the safety and health of our citizens and motorists be ensured and it is in this sense that we must improve testing procedures.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary committee of inquiry set up following the discovery of widespread fraud in road vehicle emissions has issued a first interim report. the 'dieselgate' scandal has brought to light serious administrative and institutional dysfunctions, because in this case european legislation exists and clearly defines what is prohibited. but its effective implementation and proper application have not followed. as a legislator, the european parliament must determine the responsibilities of this scandal, member states and manufacturers blaming each other. the credibility of the european union in its action against pollution, for a better living environment, and consequently the confidence it inspires in its citizens, is at stake. what is the point of setting up a framework, legislating, or regulating if our efforts are not followed by results? this committee of inquiry must shed light on the matter and keep up the pressure on the other institutions to cooperate. i have shown my support by voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 18 september 2015, the volkswagen scandal broke, following the revelations by us researchers of software cheating to hide the nitrogen dioxide emissions of diesel engines. this process allowed the world's leading car manufacturer to export to the united states despite strict limits on nitrogen dioxide emissions. the parliament then decided on 17 december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breach of union law or maladministration in the application of union law. this interim report sets out the methodology and hearings that constitute parliament's inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector. the hearings themselves will continue until autumn 2016, after which meps will work on the final report. the text voted in committee on 13 july therefore does not contain any substantive guidance. this short and very neutral text simply encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and invites the conference of presidents, the commission and the authorities of the member states to cooperate in good faith, so that no element of the inquiry escapes the committee. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ istvan ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the alleged infringement. he could not therefore legally rely on any immunity of our parliament.
in writing. ‒ in the programme "egyenes beszéd" broadcast on 25 april 2014 by the hungarian tv channel atv, mr. istván újhelyi stated that he opposed the candidacy of mr. tamás sneider for the post of vice-president of the national assembly, stating, about the person of tamás sneider, that "he said that he had fought with a mafia gypsy and that he had beaten him with i don't know what, a baseball bat", and that "everyone says that he was the local leader of a mafia organization, a gang of skinheads". the court in pest has requested the waiver of istván ujhelyi's parliamentary immunity. the court's request concerns criminal proceedings for defamation against an individual in hungary. in view of the fact that the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, the immunity provided for does not apply. however, istván ujhelyi argued that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that under a hungarian law candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee on the substance
in writing. ‒ the central district court of pest has requested the waiver of istván ujhelyi's parliamentary immunity, the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 is not applicable, because, at the time of the alleged facts, he was not yet a member of parliament but simply campaigning. however, istván ujhelyi argues that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that a hungarian law already allows candidates for the european elections in hungary to enjoy parliamentary immunity. i therefore abstained, in accordance with hungarian law on the matter and giving the honourable member the benefit of the doubt.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the hungarian socialist member of parliament istvan ujhelyi. mr ujhelyi is the subject of criminal proceedings in hungary for defamation. in 2014, he allegedly accused the candidate for the post of vice president of the hungarian national assembly of being the local leader of a mafia organization, a "band of skinheads" during a tv show. as such, since these remarks were not made in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, immunity is not valid. however, it appears that a hungarian law provides for this immunity to be applicable to all candidates in the european elections. in the event of doubt and pending the competent authorities' unraveling of this legal impasse, it was therefore better to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in the tv programme broadcast in april 2014 on the hungarian atv channel, the mep istván ujhelyi stated that he opposed the candidacy of tamas sneider as vice-president of the national assembly. according to him, the candidate had said that he had fought with a gypsy and that he had subsequently beaten him. according to ujhelyi, tamas sneider was the local leader of a mafia organization in the past. the hungarian mep was accused of defamation for these remarks and was therefore the subject of a request for waiver of parliamentary immunity by the central district court of pest. since the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament, the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 is therefore not applicable. however, ujhelyi argued that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity under hungarian law. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ on 25 april 2014 on hungarian television, mr istván újhelyi stated that he opposed the candidacy of mr tamás sneider for the post of vice-president of the national assembly, claiming that tamás sneider had a violent altercation with a gypsy. for the purposes of the criminal defamation proceedings, it is necessary to waive the parliamentary immunity of istván ujhelyi. in the present case, parliamentary immunity is not applicable in any event, but the applicant relied on a special provision of hungarian law which confers it on candidates for the european elections. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ abstention: this is a criminal defamation procedure concerning an individual in hungary.
in writing. ‒ the central district court of pest requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr istván ujhelyi. the court's request concerns criminal proceedings for defamation against an individual in hungary. the member attacked a majority politician in a radio interview, accusing him of an extremist and violent political past. i'm very careful about these things, and i've refrained from doing so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tadeusz zwiefka, on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr istván ujhelyi. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ as recommended by the juri committee, i voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity of mr istván ujhelyi, who is being prosecuted for defamation, because his remarks did not refer to opinions related to his parliamentary mandate.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. although mr ujhelyi is accused of defamation before his term of office, he is not suspected of having the intention to harm him despite a hungarian law providing for the defence of his immunity in hungary.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr istván újhelyi, accused of having defamed a hungarian national deputy. since the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament, the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 is therefore not applicable. however, ujhelyi argued that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that under a hungarian law candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament, the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 does not apply. however, istván ujhelyi argued that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that under a hungarian law candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. on 25 april 2014 on hungarian television, mr istván újhelyi stated that he opposed the candidacy of mr tamás sneider for the post of vice-president of the national assembly, claiming that tamás sneider had a violent altercation with a gypsy. for the purposes of the criminal defamation proceedings, it is necessary to waive the parliamentary immunity of istván ujhelyi. in the present case, parliamentary immunity is not applicable in any event, but the applicant relied on a special provision of hungarian law which confers it on candidates for the european elections.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of istván újhelyi, a hungarian social democrat mp. in a tv programme, újhelyi said of his far-right opponent for the post of deputy speaker of the national assembly, mr tamás sneider, that he was "the local leader of a mafia organisation, a gang of skinheads". the central district court of pest has asked the european parliament to lift the immunity in order to be able to sue him for defamation. i am voting against because it is obviously a political opinion within the framework of istván újhelyi's no less political mandate.
in writing. ‒ given that the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 is not applicable, but istván ujhelyi argues that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that under a hungarian law candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ in a tv programme on the hungarian atv, mr ujhelyi said that he opposed the candidacy of mr tamás sneider for the post of vice-president of the national assembly, saying about the person of tamás sneider that "everyone says that he was the local leader of a mafia organisation, a gang of skinheads". the central district court of pest requested the lifting of istván ujhelyi's parliamentary immunity. the court's request concerns criminal proceedings for defamation against an individual in hungary. since the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament, the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 is not applicable. however, istván ujhelyi argued that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that under a hungarian law candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity. in case of doubt, this request shall be abstained from.
in writing. ‒ this zwiefka report concerns the prosecution of istvan ujhelyi by the hungarian tv channel atv for defamatory statements. this prosecution is unrelated to his parliamentary activity, which is not motivated by political considerations. however, mr ujhelyi argued that the european parliament should not waive his immunity on the grounds that under a hungarian law candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity. i therefore decided to abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr istván ujhelyi . any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the competent parliamentary committee. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ since the charges against istván ujhelyi do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the exercise of his functions as a member of the european parliament, the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 is therefore not applicable. but ujhelyi argued that the european parliament should not lift his immunity on the grounds that under a hungarian law candidates for the european elections in hungary enjoy parliamentary immunity. i'd rather not.
in writing. - i voted in favour of defending the immunity of rosario crocetta.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta is accused of having made defamatory statements while he was an mep because he publicly accused individuals of working with the italian mafia. in the context of the criminal proceedings against him in italy, he applied to the european parliament for the defence of his parliamentary immunity. rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament when he made the remarks in question and the record of the debates in which mr crocetta participated shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states. it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy. finally, it is clear from the documents provided to the committee on legal affairs and from the hearing before it that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties. i therefore voted to maintain his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i was in favour of defending the immunity of this former italian member of the european parliament, given that rosario crocetta's critical comments and writings on the italian mafia have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of defending the parliamentary immunity of mr rosario crocetta, who is accused of defamatory remarks, but whose connection with his duties and mandate as an mep is established. mr crocetta has publicly accused individuals of collusion with the italian mafia, but it is known from the minutes of the parliament's debates that he has always been very politically active on the issue of criminal organisations, criminal associations and corruption cases, all in connection with their consequences for the european union and the member states. the direct link between the statements for which he is being prosecuted and his political activity as a member of the european parliament being established, he should be able to enjoy parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta is accused of having made defamatory statements when he was an mep. he had publicly accused individuals of having links with the italian mafia. in the context of the criminal proceedings against him in italy, he applied to the european parliament for the defence of his parliamentary immunity. rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament at the time of the events and the record of the debates in which he took part shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime. it also highlighted cases of systematic corruption, particularly in the award of public contracts linked to environmental policy. finally, it is clear from the documents provided to the committee on legal affairs that rosario crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with her parliamentary duties. that is why i voted to defend his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the parliamentary immunity of a member for the purposes of criminal prosecution for defamation. in this case, rosario crocetta, a member of the european parliament, is accused of having made defamatory statements by publicly accusing individuals of having links with the mafia. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european police force. for that reason, i support maintaining his immunity. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ vote: for the defence of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta is accused of having made defamatory statements while he was an mep. he publicly accused individuals of working with the italian mafia. in the context of the criminal proceedings against him in italy, he applied to the european parliament for the defence of his parliamentary immunity. the remarks were made in the course of his parliamentary duties, and i therefore voted in favour of defending mr crocetta's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague heidi hautala on the request for the defence of the parliamentary privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta. the committee on legal affairs considered that the statements he made in connection with the fight against crime were directly and obviously connected with the parliamentary duties of the member of the european parliament, and that this did not justify the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the european parliament from 2009 until december 2012, when he was elected president of the region of sicily, mr crocetta, who was deeply involved in the fight against organised crime and corruption, made comments during his campaign as a member of the european parliament, suggesting links between some of his competitors and the sicilian mafia in connection with a public procurement suspected of fraud. as a result of these remarks, mr. crocetta was charged with libel. i followed the recommendation of the juri committee in voting in favour of defending the immunity of mr crocetta, who considered that the remarks made were directly and obviously connected with the parliamentary duties of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted to defend mr crocetta's parliamentary immunity because he has courageously attacked the mafia in the course of his duties. it's amazing that the italian courts are blaming him!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of defending the parliamentary immunity of mr rosario crocetta, who was accused of having made defamatory statements while he was an mep. he has publicly accused individuals of working with the italian mafia. rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament when he made the remarks in question and the record of the debates in which mr crocetta participated shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states. it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy. finally, it is clear from the documents provided to the committee on legal affairs and from the hearing before it that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted to defend mr crocetta's parliamentary immunity, because he has courageously attacked the italian mafia in the course of his duties. as a member of the european parliament, he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact in the member states of the union. it is surprising that the italian courts are blaming him for this.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this is a request for waiver of parliamentary immunity for the purposes of a criminal defamation case. in this case, rosario crocetta, a member of the european parliament, is accused of having made defamatory statements by publicly accusing individuals of having links with the mafia. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european police force. for that reason, i support maintaining his immunity.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the defence of the parliamentary immunity of rosario crocetta, an italian social democrat mep. in a political debate at the centro pio la torre in 2012, he said "on sunday, during our convention, i will provide the names of the people involved in the agreement between musumeci and miccichè to return to the issue of the four waste heaters run by the mafia". at the request of the injured parties, the public prosecutor at the court of palermo indicted mr crocetta for the offence of defamation, punishable by article 595 of the italian penal code. at the time of the statements in question, mr crocetta was very politically engaged in the fight against organised crime and its influence on politics and the economy, in particular with regard to public procurement and environmental policy. in view of the circumstances of the case and the content of the remarks, mr crocetta's allegations are therefore likely to have a direct and obvious link with his activities as a member of the european parliament. that is why i am voting to uphold his immunity.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament when he made the controversial remarks and the record of the debates in which mr crocetta participated shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime. it is also clear from the documents provided to the committee on legal affairs and the hearing before it that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties. so i voted to defend his immunity.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta is accused of having made defamatory statements while he was an mep. he publicly accused individuals of working with the italian mafia. in the context of the criminal proceedings against him in italy, he applied to the european parliament for the defence of his parliamentary immunity. rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament when he made the remarks in question and the record of the debates in which mr crocetta participated shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states. it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy. finally, it is clear from the documents provided to the committee on legal affairs and from the hearing before it that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties. votes in favour of maintaining parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ this hautala report concerns the defence of the parliamentary privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta. the latter is accused of having made defamatory statements while he was an mep publicly accusing individuals of working with the italian mafia. since mr crocetta was a member of the european parliament when he made these remarks, and a very active member of the fight against organised crime, it appears that these statements were in connection with his parliamentary duties. i therefore voted to uphold his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the defence of the parliamentary immunity of rosario crocetta. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the competent parliamentary committee. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta is accused of having made defamatory statements while he was an mep. he has publicly accused individuals of working with the italian mafia. in the context of the criminal proceedings against him in italy, he applied to the european parliament for the defence of his parliamentary immunity. rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament when he made the remarks in question and the record of the debates in which mr crocetta participated shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states. it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy. finally, it is clear from the documents provided to the committee on legal affairs and from the hearing before it that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties. i therefore vote in favour of the report, which advocates the maintenance of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ rosario crocetta is accused of having made defamatory statements while he was an mep. he publicly accused individuals of working with the italian mafia. in the context of the criminal proceedings against him in italy, he applied to the european parliament for the defence of his parliamentary immunity. rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament when he made the remarks in question and the record of the debates in which mr crocetta participated shows that he has always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states. it also highlighted the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, particularly in relation to public procurement linked to environmental policy. finally, it is clear from the documents provided to the committee on legal affairs and from the hearing before it that mr crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with his parliamentary duties. i voted to uphold his immunity.
in writing. ‒ this is a clear and non-problematic case of waiver of parliamentary immunity: i voted in favour with my socialist colleagues.
in writing. ‒ the proposed action concerns the issuing in 2011 by the thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal public domain occupancy permits for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. sotirios zarianopoulos is being prosecuted as a former member of that municipal council. the prosecution in question is clearly unrelated to sotirios zarianopoulos' status as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous term as a member of the thessaloniki city council. nor does it concern an opinion or vote delivered by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. there is therefore no reason to assume that the prosecution envisaged was inspired by the intention to harm the political activity of the member of parliament (fumus persecutionis), especially since the prosecution concerns all the members of the municipal council of the time (judicial proceedings for prevarication committed jointly (articles 13bis, 45 and 259 of the criminal code) against 34 municipal councillors who voted in favour. so i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ the prosecution is clearly not related to sotirios zarianopoulos' status as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous term as a member of the thessaloniki city council. nor does it concern an opinion or vote delivered by the member in the exercise of his functions as a greek member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. so i'm in favor of lifting his immunity, which seems logical.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, whose report was drafted by my colleague gilles lebreton. mr zarianopoulos is to be prosecuted for his alleged role as a municipal councillor in thessaloniki in the issuance of permits suspected of being illegal to occupy public land for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. as we can see, this action has nothing to do with his duties as a member of the european parliament or with any opinion he may have expressed in the context of that mandate. there is therefore no doubt that the prosecution is motivated by an intention to harm his political activity as a member of the municipal council, especially since the other members of the said municipal council are also being prosecuted.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns the issuing in 2011 by the thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal public domain occupancy permits for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. sotirios zarianopoulos, mep, is being prosecuted as a former member of this municipal council. the case against sotiros zarianopoulos has no connection with his status as a member of the european parliament but directly concerns his activities as a former municipal councillor in thessaloniki. nor does it concern an opinion or vote delivered by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. there is therefore no reason to believe that the prosecution was motivated by the intention to harm the political activity of the mep, especially since it concerns all the members of the municipal council at the time. that is why i voted to lift his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ sotirios zarianopoulos is being prosecuted as a former member of the thessaloniki city council for allegedly illegal authorisations to occupy public land. there is no link between these proceedings and the parliamentary mandate of mr sortirios zarianpoulos. furthermore, there is no reason to believe that the prosecution is motivated by the wish to harm the activity of that member. i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: there is no reason to assume that the intended prosecution is motivated by the intention to harm the member's political activity (fumus persecutionis).
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos concerns the issuance in 2011 by the municipal council of thessaloniki of allegedly illegal permits for the occupation of public land for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. sotirios zarianopoulos is being prosecuted as a former member of that municipal council. this charge of fraud concerns all the city councilors who voted for the permits. the matter is not within his parliamentary remit, so i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of my colleague, mr zarianopoulos, who is being prosecuted in connection with an investigation into the granting of allegedly illegal permits for occupying public space. this case has nothing to do with the mp's mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr zarianopoulos' parliamentary immunity because he is being prosecuted for acts (committed in 2011 as a member of a municipal council) that have nothing to do with his current duties. the applicant himself agrees. it should be noted that i am the author of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos. the prosecution in question is clearly unrelated to sotirios zarianopoulos' status as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous term as a member of the thessaloniki city council. nor does it concern an opinion or vote delivered by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. there is therefore no reason to assume that the intended prosecution was inspired by the intention to harm the political activity of the member, especially since the prosecution concerns all the members of the municipal council at the time.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr zarianopoulos' parliamentary immunity, as he is being prosecuted for acts (committed in 2011 as a member of a municipal council) that have nothing to do with his current duties. the applicant himself agrees. it should be noted that the rapporteur for this text is a member of parliament from our group, gilles lebreton.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. sotirios zarianopoulos is being prosecuted as a former member of the thessaloniki city council for allegedly illegal permits to occupy public land. there is no link between these proceedings and the parliamentary mandate of mr sortirios zarianopoulos. furthermore, there is no reason to believe that the prosecution is motivated by the wish to harm the activity of that member.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, a greek communist mp. the greek authorities intend to sue sotirios zarianopoulos for the issuance in 2011 by the municipal council of thessaloniki of allegedly illegal permits to occupy public land for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. sotirios zarianopoulos is being prosecuted as a former member of that municipal council, so the prosecution envisaged is clearly unrelated to his status as a member of the european parliament. furthermore, the proceedings do not concern an opinion or vote delivered by the member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i vote for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ there is no reason to believe that the intended prosecution was inspired by the intention to harm the political activity of the mp, especially since the prosecution concerns all the members of the municipal council at the time. so i voted to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ the proposed action concerns the issuing in 2011 by the thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal public domain occupancy permits for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. sotirios zarianopoulos is being prosecuted as a former member of that municipal council, clearly without any connection with his status as a member of the european parliament, but rather in connection with his previous term as a member of the municipal council of thessaloniki. it shall also not concern an opinion or vote delivered by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. there is therefore no reason to assume that the intended prosecution was inspired by the intention to harm the political activity of the member of parliament, especially since the prosecution concerns all the members of the municipal council of the time against 34 municipal councillors who voted in favour. so we cannot oppose the lifting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ this lebreton report concerns the prosecution of mr zarianopoulos, a former member of the thessaloniki city council, accused of illegally occupying public land for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. since this action is not linked to his parliamentary activity and is not motivated by political considerations, i decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the waiver of mr zarianopoulos ' parliamentary immunity . any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the competent parliamentary committee. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ the proposed action concerns the issuing in 2011 by the thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal public domain occupancy permits for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths. sotirios zarianopoulos is being prosecuted as a former member of that municipal council. the prosecution in question is clearly unrelated to sotirios zarianopoulos' status as a member of the european parliament, but rather to his previous term as a member of the thessaloniki city council. nor does it concern an opinion or vote delivered by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. there is therefore no reason to assume that the prosecution envisaged was inspired by the intention to harm the political activity of the member of parliament (fumus persecutionis), especially since the prosecution concerns all the members of the municipal council of the time (judicial proceedings for prevarication committed jointly (articles 13bis, 45 and 259 of the criminal code) against 34 municipal councillors who voted in favour. i therefore vote in favour of the report, which calls for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate customs tariffs with china in line with world trade organisation rules. while china is not making any concessions, the european commission has had to make concessions on tariffs and quotas once again. i therefore opposed this agreement because it is an unbalanced relationship in which the eu and france are the losers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report which aims to conclude the eu-china agreement, taking into account croatia's accession to the eu, in line with wto requirements. the commission has negotiated with china the issue of the withdrawal of specific concessions related to the withdrawal of croatia from the annex in the context of its accession to the eu. the negotiations resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters which was initialled on 7 october 2015. it is now time to conclude the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this is a recommendation for a proposal for a council decision authorising the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in line with wto rules. as a result, the european commission has made several concessions on customs tariffs and quotas: shoes, air conditioners, garlic, mushrooms. china has made no concessions. the eu's tariffs on china are already very unfavourable (france's external trade with china is also very deficitary), so this new list of concessions is not welcome. this type of relationship is not balanced. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, it was obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994), to open negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights on croatia's list of commitments with a view to agreeing on possible compensation.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in line with wto rules. the european commission has made several concessions on customs tariffs and quotas; china, on the other hand, has not done so, even though the eu's tariffs on china are very favourable. that is why i do not welcome this list of new concessions, especially since the commission has nothing to protect us from chinese dumping: in december, 15 years after china joined the wto, it will be granted market economy status automatically.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which seeks to take account of croatia's accession to the eu in the context of the customs tariff agreements with china. while at first glance this text could be seen as a simple legal adjustment to take account of croatia in the agreements, it turns out that the eu took the opportunity to renegotiate the said agreements with the chinese power, and this in a way that was highly unfavourable to the european countries. the eu has accepted many concessions, both on customs tariffs and on quotas, notably on shoes, but also on food products such as garlic and mushrooms. the chinese giant, on the other hand, has not made any compromises. even though france's external trade is already in deficit vis-à-vis china, these new concessions risk aggravating the imbalance in our trade balance. as usual, the fact that the eu is responsible for trade policy for all its member states does not allow us to defend our economic and strategic interests.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in line with wto rules and the commission made a number of concessions (shoes, garlic, mushrooms) while china did not make any. i have voted against this text because i consider it to be an unbalanced relationship which is detrimental to france.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the european union renegotiated the tariff agreements with china in line with world trade organisation (wto) rules. it is in this context that the european commission has granted china, without any reciprocity, new tariff concessions on imports of shoes, air conditioners, garlic and mushrooms. instead of implementing a clever protectionism aimed at combating social and environmental dumping by china, the european union prefers to grant it new tariff concessions which will increase the current account deficit of the member states. the same causes have the same effects, and this crazy trade policy will help to accelerate the deindustrialisation which has hit the western countries since the beginning of the 1980s, with the destruction of thousands of jobs in the market sector as a result. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the european parliament's recommendation on the updating protocol to the eu-china agreement following croatia's accession to the european union and deals with possible compensation to the eu's partner country once the union expands its market to include a new member. the rapporteur proposes to support the commission's proposal for such a negotiation. i supported this report because i believe that the enlargement of the single market changes the conditions for trade with partner countries and that these conditions need to be redefined.
in writing. the adoption of this text allows the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and china under the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of commitments of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. i voted in favour of this text to take account of the fact that with the accession of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union, which requires us to adjust our trade agreements accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the european union renegotiated its customs tariffs with china following the accession of croatia. while the european union's external trade is already heavily deficitary vis-à-vis china, this renegotiation marks a new series of concessions. the enf group denounces this unbalanced commercial relationship which in no way corresponds to french economic interests. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the eu's tariffs on china are already very unfavourable (france's external trade with china is also very deficitary), so this new list of concessions is not welcome. this type of relationship is not balanced.
in writing. ‒ this text is an update of the customs tariff agreements, in line with wto rules. the eu had to renegotiate its position with china following the accession of croatia. for example, the european commission made several concessions on customs tariffs and quotas (shoes, air conditioners, garlic, mushrooms), while china did not make any concessions. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr iuliu winkler on croatia's accession to the eu-china agreement. the agreement with china that was concluded in 2015 is mainly about trade arrangements. it is normal and necessary that these arrangements should now be extended to croatia following its accession to the customs union. i am satisfied with this decision, which is in the direction of a stronger internal market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes into account the accession of croatia in the framework of the eu-china agreement. with the accession of croatia, the eu has enlarged its customs union. consequently, croatia was obliged under wto rules to open negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights in order to agree on possible compensation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it makes additional concessions to china. this is further proof of the eu's irresponsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu-china agreement on the accession of croatia. following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in line with wto rules. as a result, the european commission made several concessions on customs tariffs and quotas (shoes, air conditioners, garlic, mushrooms. china has made no concessions. the eu's tariffs on china are already very unfavourable (france's external trade with china is also very deficitary), so this new list of concessions is not welcome. this type of relationship is not balanced.
in writing. - i voted against this report. following croatia's accession to the european union, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto). as expected, the european commission made several concessions on customs tariffs and on trade quotas (shoes, air conditioners, garlic, mushrooms, etc.). as might be expected, china did not make any concessions. the customs barriers between the eu and china were already largely unfavourable to us. this series of new agreements will therefore increase the deficit in our external trade with that country. i could not therefore agree to such a text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the european union renegotiated its customs tariffs with china following the accession of croatia. while the european union's external trade with china is already largely in deficit, this renegotiation marks a new series of concessions. the enf group denounces this unbalanced commercial relationship, which in no way corresponds to french economic interests.
in writing. ‒ the winkler report was intended to convey to the council the european parliament's recommendations on the way forward for adjusting the concessions offered to china by the eu at the wto following the accession of croatia to the european union. while it foreshadows the type of (reverse) adjustments the eu will have to make following brexit, the file is mainly technical in that it is about changing, according to established practice, customs duties on industrial products and quotas for agricultural products, in proportion to the size of the croatian market, to take account of the enlargement of the european single market. the changes are minor: customs duties on entry into the european market for rubber shoes from china will rise from 17% to 16.9%. similarly, china will have the opportunity to export an additional 650 tonnes of mushrooms to europe. i voted for this report because i believe that it is not appropriate to engage in a needless confrontation with china. on the other hand, i will continue to fight at parliamentary level for the european union to increase its tariffs on the dumped products that beijing dumps in europe: steel, ceramics, chemicals, paper, etc.
in writing. ‒ the people's republic of china and the eu had customs agreements for the export and import of certain goods, agreed under the wto's general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). following the accession of croatia in july 2013, these quotas and tariff quotas need to be adapted to a union of 28 states. that is what this decision proposes. i am not only opposed to these latest waves of enlargement but also to the free trade model of the wto. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ since the eu's customs tariffs on china are already very unfavourable (france's external trade with china is also very deficitary), this new list of concessions runs counter to our interests. such relationships are unbalanced and harmful. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in line with wto rules. the european commission has made several concessions on customs tariffs and quotas (shoes, air conditioners, garlic, mushrooms). china has made no concessions. since eu customs tariffs on china are already very unfavourable for european companies (france's external trade with china is also very deficitary), this new list of concessions is not welcome. this type of relationship is not balanced. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the eu-china agreement on the accession of croatia to the eu. the latter had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in accordance with wto rules. i consider that this agreement is very favourable to china, which has made no concessions, and therefore unbalanced, and i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to give parliament's approval to croatia's accession to the eu-china agreement. as croatia joined the european union only on 1 july 2013, it was not a party to that convention, although as a member state it has a full place in it. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and china on the modification of concessions in the list of commitments of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the european union. the eu's customs union was enlarged by the accession of croatia in 2013. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the eu with a financial contribution to the eu's external financing.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in line with wto rules. the european commission has made several concessions on customs tariffs and quotas (shoes, air conditioners, garlic, mushrooms). china has made no concessions. the eu's tariffs on china are already very unfavourable (france's external trade with china is also very deficitary), so this new list of concessions is not welcome. this type of relationship is not balanced. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of croatia's accession to the european union. the addition of an additional member state has enlarged the eu's customs union and has therefore required clarification of technical rules, formalised by an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and china.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, it was obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994), to open negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights on croatia's list of commitments with a view to agreeing on possible compensation. it is in this sense that i supported this report on the agreement between the european union and china on the modification of concessions in the list of commitments of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the european union had to renegotiate tariff agreements with china in line with wto rules. the european commission has therefore made several concessions on these customs tariffs and on quotas (shoes, air conditioners, garlic, mushrooms). china has made no concessions. the eu's tariffs on china are already very unfavourable (france's external trade with china is also very deficitary), so this new list of concessions is not welcome. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate customs tariffs with uruguay in line with world trade organisation rules. i opposed this agreement because, once again, the commission has given in on the quotas, particularly on beef, when it did not ask the opposing party to do the same.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report which aims to conclude the eu-uruguay agreement taking into account croatia's accession to the eu and adapting the tariff grid in line with wto requirements. the agreement should now be concluded.
in writing. ‒ this text is a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in line with wto rules. the european commission has taken advantage of two concessions on beef quotas. in any negotiation, the european union makes tariff or quota concessions without the other party doing the same. this type of relationship is not balanced. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in line with wto rules. the european commission has therefore made two concessions on beef quotas. the tariff concessions must come from both sides. i am against this vote, which will therefore increase this unbalanced relationship.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union. as in the case of china, under the pretext of taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu, the agreements with uruguay were renegotiated, and in a very unfavourable way, since the eu agreed on beef quotas. it is unacceptable that the eu continues to make such one-sided concessions to the detriment of our economy but also of our agriculture, which is already in a perilous situation at the moment.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in line with wto rules and the commission made concessions on beef quotas. i think that this relationship is unbalanced and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the european union renegotiated the tariff agreements with uruguay in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto). it was in this context that the european commission granted uruguay, without any reciprocity, new tariff concessions on beef import quotas. instead of protecting our farmers and herders, who are already suffering from the fall in the price of raw materials, through intelligent protectionism, the european union is locking itself up in dogmatism and ideology in this insane policy of generalised free trade. these new tariff concessions will be joined in the coming months by the transatlantic free trade agreement with the united states, which will definitively sign the death knell of our agriculture. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's recommendation on the updating protocol to the eu-uruguay agreement following croatia's accession to the european union and deals with possible compensation to the eu's partner country as soon as the union expands its market to include a new member. the rapporteur recommends supporting the commission's proposal for such a negotiation. i supported this report because i believe that the enlargement of the single market changes the conditions for trade with partner countries and that these conditions need to be redefined.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay under the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 concerning the modification of concessions in the schedule of commitments of croatia in the context of its accession to the eu. the european union's customs union was enlarged following croatia's accession, and our trade agreements had to be adapted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ this report follows the accession of croatia, the european union had to renegotiate its customs tariffs with uruguay. these renegotiations resulted in new tariff and quota concessions (beef), without any counterpart from uruguay. we denounce these unbalanced trade relations. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: in any negotiation, the eu makes tariff or quota concessions without the opposing party doing the same. this type of relationship is not balanced.
in writing. ‒ this report follows croatia's accession to the eu. the latter had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in accordance with wto rules. as a result, the european commission has made two concessions on beef quotas. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague pablo zalba's text on croatia's accession to the eu-uruguay agreement. in 2015, negotiations with uruguay resulted in a trade agreement; this vote allows croatia to also apply the provisions of the agreement following its accession in 2013, a decision that i am satisfied with and which allows croatia to align its economic market with that of the other member states. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-uruguay agreement on the accession of croatia. following the accession of croatia, the union has expanded its customs union and has therefore been obliged, under wto rules, to open negotiations with uruguay on the list of commitments of croatia with a view to agreeing on a possible compensation, as the adoption of the union's external tariff regime entails an increase in duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it accepts that the eu makes reckless tariff concessions.
in writing. ‒ croatia, the european union had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in accordance with wto rules. the european commission has therefore made two concessions on beef quotas. in any negotiation, the european union makes tariff or quota concessions without the other party doing the same. this type of relationship is not balanced.
in writing. ‒ following croatia's accession to the european union, the eu had to renegotiate its customs tariffs with uruguay, in accordance with wto rules. unfortunately, the eu has made two important concessions on beef quotas, while uruguay has made none. as this type of trade relationship is not balanced and is highly unfavourable to our trade and its actors, in this case the cattle farmers, i logically voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this report follows the accession of croatia, the european union had to renegotiate its customs tariffs with uruguay. these renegotiations resulted in new tariff and quota concessions (beef), without any counterpart from uruguay. we denounce these unbalanced trade relations.
in writing. ‒ like the winkler report, the zalba bidegain report, as put to the vote in plenary, sought to have the european parliament endorse the commission and council's approach to adjusting the concessions offered by the european union to uruguay at the wto, in order to take account of croatia's recent accession to the eu and the enlargement of the european market that has resulted from it. the adjustments made are relatively minor, as they are proportionate to the small size of the croatian market: uruguay will be able to export a slightly larger quantity of beef to the european union. i voted in favour of this technical report, but i will be very attentive to the negotiations between the european union and the mercosur countries (brazil, argentina, uruguay, paraguay). a meeting of the trade ministers concerned will take place very shortly and uruguay has already announced its intention to obtain generous additional export quotas for its beef. i will oppose any agreement that would be to the detriment of european livestock farming in the midst of the crisis
in writing. ‒ uruguay and the eu had customs agreements for the export and import of certain goods, agreed under the wto's general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). following the accession of croatia in july 2013, these quotas and tariff quotas need to be adapted to a union of 28 states. that is what this decision proposes. i am not only opposed to these latest waves of enlargement but also to the free trade model of the wto. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in any negotiation, the eu makes tariff or quota concessions without the other party doing the same. such relations are unbalanced and harmful to our interests. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in line with wto rules. as a result, the european commission made two concessions on beef quotas without the opposing party doing the same. this type of relationship is not balanced. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the eu-uruguay agreement on the accession of croatia to the eu. the latter had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in accordance with wto rules. i think that this agreement is very favourable to uruguay, since the commission has made two concessions on beef quotas without any counterpart, so i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to give parliament's consent to croatia's accession to the eu-uruguay agreement. as croatia joined the european union only on 1 july 2013, it was not a party to the convention, although as a member state it has a full place in it. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and uruguay on the modification of concessions in the list of commitments of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the european union. the eu's customs union was enlarged by the accession of croatia in 2013. the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the eu had to renegotiate tariff agreements with uruguay in line with wto rules. the european commission has made two concessions on beef quotas. in any negotiation, the european union makes tariff or quota concessions without the other party doing the same. this type of relationship is not balanced. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of croatia's accession to the european union. with the addition of an additional member state, the eu has enlarged its customs union and has therefore been obliged to clarify technical rules, formalised by an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and uruguay.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of the republic of croatia, the union has enlarged its customs union and has therefore been obliged, under the wto rules (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994), to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay on the list of commitments of croatia with a view to agreeing on a possible compensation, as the adoption of the union's external tariff regime entails an increase in duties. it is in this sense that i supported this report on the agreement between the eu and the eastern republic of uruguay on the modification of concessions in the list of commitments of the republic of croatia in the context of its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the mandate of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. the latter has proven himself to be competent and well qualified for the position.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to renew the mandate of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. the applicant in question, lazaros stravrou lazarou, a cypriot, has been a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, holds a degree in international taxation and has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development". since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. the european nomenklatura has produced lazaros stavrou lazarou, who is seeking a new mandate. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this appointment as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ member of the european court of auditors since 2010, lazaros stavrou lazarou is seeking a new term of office. i abstained on the renewal of the mandate of this pure product of the eurocratic nomenklatura.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on the nomination of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. cyprus has already been a member since 2010. his background certainly shows that he has the profile, as he is a graduate in international taxation and in particular a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987. however, his career at the court of auditors attests to his membership of this european oligarchy: member of the 'conservation and management of natural resources' chamber, or of the 'structural policies, transport and energy' chamber. it's hard to see how his work since 2010 has advanced the public interest.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the renewal of the mandate of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament is therefore consulted for its opinion on the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou of cyprus. a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987 and a graduate in international taxation, the candidate has been a member of the court since 2010 and responsible for the european union's statement of assurance since 2014. the european nomenklatura has produced lazaros stavrou lazarou, who is seeking a new mandate. i abstained on that nomination.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control (cont) has heard three candidates for appointment to the court of auditors, proposed by three member states: the maltese léo brincat, the portuguese joao figueiredo and the cypriot lazaros stavrou lazarou. considering that, after hearing the committee members, they have validated these three appointments as long as the candidates meet the expectations of parliament and the court of auditors, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament shall be consulted for its opinion on the renewal of the mandate of a member of the court of auditors. lazaros stavrou lazarou, a cypriot member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, has been a member of the court of auditors since 2010. since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: a product of the european nomenklatura, lazaros stavrou lazarou is seeking a new term of office.
in writing. ‒ mr lazaros stavrou lazarou has been a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, holds a degree in international taxation and has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development". since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. if he seems to have the qualifications for this job, lazaros stavrou lazarou is also a member of the brussels nomenklatura: i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague igor soltes on the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. the text approves the nomination proposed by the council after hearing the committee on budgetary control, certifying the qualifications required to perform this function. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ as recommended by the cont committee which heard lazaros stavrou lazarou, i voted in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the nomination of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou to the court of auditors. he has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development". since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. it is a pure product of the european nomenclature.
in writing. ‒ this report defends the 'renewal' of the mandate of a member of the european court of auditors. in this case, mr lazaros stavrou lazarou, who has been a member since 2010, is seeking a new term. he has also been a member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987 and holds a degree in international taxation. he is a rather unpopular figure, a product of the european nomenklatura, but he is nevertheless a member of a respectable institution, and his work is often to be applauded. i have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the european parliament shall be consulted for its opinion on the renewal of the term of office of a member of the court of auditors. lazaros stavrou lazarou, a cypriot member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, has been a member of the court of auditors since 2010. since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts.
in writing. ‒ a product of the technocracy, lazaros stavrou lazarou has had a career as a high-ranking civil servant. he was the accountant-general of the republic of cyprus, responsible for constitutional and legal control and the management of public financial operations. he is not a member of any political party, has never held a representative office and has already served as a member of the european court of auditors. i am voting against his appointment in memory of the shameful attack on cyprus by the ecb, which this gentleman found nothing wrong with.
in writing. ‒ member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development". since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. lazaros stavrou lazarou, despite his experience, represents a caste within the european union which we would like to see evolve. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors for an opinion. member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers for conservation and management of natural resources, structural policies, transport and energy, and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber for coordination, evaluation, assurance and development. since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. the european nomenklatura has produced lazaros stavrou lazarou, who is seeking a new mandate. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on mr stavrou's nomination, as he is a pure product of the european establishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the members of this committee approved this nomination proposal by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ this is the renewal of the mandate of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development". since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. the european nomenklatura has produced lazaros stavrou lazarou, who is seeking a new mandate. i'd rather not do that.
in writing. ‒ we have been asked to give our opinion on the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this is the renewal of the mandate of a member of the european court of auditors, mr lazaros stavrou lazarou. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. member of the association of chartered accountants since 1987, graduated in international taxation, the applicant has been a member of the court since 2010. he was successively a member of the chambers "conservation and management of natural resources", "structural policies, transport and energy" and then a non-permanent member of the horizontal chamber "coordination, evaluation, assurance and development". since 2014, he has been a member responsible for the statement of assurance on the european union accounts. the european nomenklatura has produced lazaros stavrou lazarou, who is seeking a new mandate. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr joao figueiredo, whose aim is to replace the outgoing president of the european court of auditors, mr caldeira. mr figueiredo is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors and has previously served as secretary of state and director-general of the public administration.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to replace a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. the portuguese candidate joao figueiredo has a law degree and has held various posts in the civil service, from which he comes, since 1982. he was head of department, director of division and then chief of staff to the minister of justice. he was involved in the judiciary from 1983 to 2002. he even held a position as secretary of state in the portuguese administration. since 2003, he has held positions in the field of public finance. he is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. although he is a member of the budgetary and financial control team, he has mainly legal and project planning skills. because of the successes he mentions, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service, the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership, his probity and desire to increase budget performance seem to be taken for granted. that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this appointment as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo, who has held public finance positions since 2003 and is currently a member of the court of auditors in portugal, seems to me to have the right profile for this post, and i voted in favour of his appointment as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of joão figueiredo to the court of auditors. he seems to have had a fairly consistent career: after a stint at the ministry of justice, he was secretary of state in the portuguese administration, then holding positions in the field of public finance. he is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. since his profile is perfectly suited to the post he is seeking, i saw no reason to oppose this appointment.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the replacement of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment. the portuguese candidate, joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo, graduated in law and has held various posts in the civil service since 1982. he was head of department, head of division, chief of staff to the minister of justice, and was involved in the judicial world from 1983 to 2002. since 2003, he has held positions in the field of public finance. currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors, he cites the creation of a public policy evaluation service and the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership as his main successes. i voted in favour of the appointment of joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo because of his integrity and his desire to increase the performance of the european budgets.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control (cont) has heard three candidates for appointment to the court of auditors, proposed by three member states: the maltese léo brincat, the portuguese joao figueiredo and the cypriot lazaros stavrou lazarou. considering that, after hearing the committee members, they have validated these three appointments as long as the candidates meet the expectations of parliament and the court of auditors, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is consulted for its opinion on the replacement of a member of the european court of auditors. a law graduate, joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo initially served as chief of staff to the minister of justice of portugal before being appointed a judge at the court of auditors of that country. in his new role, he will mainly have legal and project planning skills. on the whole, i am convinced by his apparent honesty, reflected in his professional successes: evaluation of public policies, cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote for: because of the successes he mentions, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service, the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership, his probity and his desire to increase the performance of budgets seem to be taken for granted.
in writing. ‒ joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo will shortly be appointed a member of the court of auditors. although he is a member of the budgetary and financial control team, he has mainly legal and project planning skills. because of the successes he mentions, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service, the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership, his probity and desire to increase budget performance seem to be taken for granted. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague igor soltes on the appointment of mr joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. the text approves the nomination proposed by the council after hearing the committee on budgetary control, certifying the qualifications required to perform this function. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ as recommended by the cont committee which heard joão figueiredo, i voted in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr joão figueiredo to the court of auditors. the applicant is a graduate in law and has held various posts in the civil service, from which he comes, since 1982. he was head of department, director of division and then chief of staff to the minister of justice. he was involved in the judiciary from 1983 to 2002. he even held a position as secretary of state in the portuguese administration. since 2003, he has held positions in the field of public finance. he is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. because of the successes he mentions, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service or the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership, his probity and desire to increase budget performance seem to be taken for granted.
in writing. ‒ parliament was here to give an opinion on the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. mr joao figueiredo is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. a graduate in law, former senior civil servant and member of ministerial cabinets, he has expertise in project planning, as well as in budgetary and financial control. because of some successes, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service or the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership, its probity and its desire to increase the performance of budgets, i voted for this appointment.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the european parliament shall be consulted for its opinion on the replacement of a member of the european court of auditors. a law graduate, joao alexandre tavares gonçalves de figueiredo initially served as chief of staff to the minister of justice of portugal before being appointed a judge at the court of auditors of that country. in his new role, he will mainly have legal and project planning skills. on the whole, we are convinced by his apparent honesty, reflected in his professional successes: evaluation of public policies, cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership.
in writing. ‒ joão figueiredo, a lawyer by training, worked in the high administration before obtaining responsibilities in the portuguese socialist government of antónio manuel de oliveira guterres. he appears to have demonstrated experience in public financial management; i will, however, abstain.
in writing. ‒ although joão figueiredo is well versed in budgetary and financial control, his main skills are in legal matters and project planning. because of some of its successes, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service or the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership, its integrity and its desire to increase the performance of budgets, i voted in favour of this appointment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors for its opinion. the applicant, who has a law degree, has held various posts in the civil service, from which he has come since 1982. he was head of department, director of division, then chief of staff to the minister of justice, and was involved in the judiciary from 1983 to 2002. he even held a position as secretary of state in the portuguese administration. since 2003, he has held positions in the field of public finance. he is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. his probity and desire to increase the performance of budgets seem to be well established. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the appointment of mr joão figueiredo to the court of auditors because of his achievements, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service or the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership. his probity and desire to increase the performance of budgets seem to be taken for granted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report approving the appointment of joão figueiredo as a member of the court of auditors. joão figueiredo was heard by the committee on budgetary control. the members of this committee approved this nomination proposal by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ this is the replacement of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. the applicant is a graduate in law and has held various posts in the civil service, from which he comes, since 1982. he was head of department, director of division and then chief of staff to the minister of justice. he was involved in the judiciary from 1983 to 2002. he even held a position as secretary of state in the portuguese administration. since 2003, he has held positions in the field of public finance. he is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. although he is a member of the budgetary and financial control team, he has mainly legal and project planning skills. because of the successes he mentions, such as the creation of a public policy evaluation service or the cancellation of an illegal public-private partnership, his probity and desire to increase budget performance seem to be taken for granted. i therefore vote in favour of his appointment.
in writing. ‒ this is the replacement of a member of the european court of auditors by mr joao figueiredo. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. the applicant is a graduate in law and has held various posts in the civil service, from which he comes, since 1982. he was head of department, director of division and then chief of staff to the minister of justice. he was involved in the judiciary from 1983 to 2002. he even held a position as secretary of state in the portuguese administration. since 2003, he has held positions in the field of public finance. he is currently a judge at the portuguese court of auditors. although he is a member of the budgetary and financial control team, he has mainly legal and project planning skills. i voted for his nomination.
in writing. ‒ mr brincat supported a maltese government colleague in a vote of confidence in the panama papers in may 2016. i was not given enough information on the subject, so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. the candidate, léo brincat, former maltese minister for the environment, was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office. after a very short stint (in 1966) with barclays, he held various political posts throughout his career: cabinet secretary to the prime minister, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister of finance and commerce and member of the foreign affairs committee. in parallel, he was director of the strategy research department at hsbc malta. it is left-leaning but has conservative views, but is not fully accepted by the public. however, he is being proposed for the post by both the left and the right of the maltese parliament. leo brincat is a controversial character. while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers case. i therefore voted against this nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this appointment because i do not think that this person embodies the values of integrity and transparency required for this function.
in writing. ‒ while the role of a court of auditors is to fight fraud, leo brincat has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi, whose name appeared in the panama papers. i therefore voted against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ as there was no consensus on leo brincat, i voted against his appointment as a member of the court of auditors. the former maltese minister for the environment was involved in setting up the national audit office in malta. his political career can only be recognized as a form of professionalism, particularly through his function as a member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, or as minister of finance and trade. however, his close ties to the banking industry, including his move to barclays and his position as director of strategic research at hsbc malta, make me question his complete impartiality.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment. despite his experience throughout his career as cabinet secretary to the prime minister, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister for finance and trade and member of the foreign affairs committee, the maltese candidate leo brincat remains a controversial figure. while he was supposed to fight corruption, he openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi, whose name appeared in the panama papers case, even opposing the motion of censure against the minister. this unwavering support casts a shadow over his candidacy. that's why i voted against leo brincat's nomination.
in writing. ‒ the committee on budgetary control (cont) has heard three candidates for appointment to the court of auditors, proposed by three member states: the maltese léo brincat, the portuguese joao figueiredo and the cypriot lazaros stavrou lazarou. considering that, after hearing the committee members, they have validated these three appointments as long as the candidates meet the expectations of parliament and the court of auditors, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is consulted for its opinion on the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, held various senior political posts after a brief stint at barclays bank. he was successively cabinet secretary to the prime minister, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister of finance and trade and member of the foreign affairs committee. he is controversial, particularly because of his support for maltese minister konrad mizzi, who was involved in the panama papers case. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers. leo brincat voted against the motion of censure against minister mizzi.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors is justified by a long career and the support of both sides of the maltese parliament. however, his political profile is left-leaning, although he defends conservative positions, as is the case in malta. he openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers. leo brincat voted against the motion of censure against minister mizzi, and this case casts a shadow over his candidacy. i voted against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors. he was unconvincing when he was heard by the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the nomination of the maltese candidate léo brincat, who failed to convince the epp during his committee hearing, particularly because of his support for the minister for health and energy, who was then worried about the panama papers affair.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of mr leo brincat to the court of auditors. leo brincat is a controversial character. while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers case. leo brincat voted against the motion of censure against minister mizzi. this case casts a shadow over his candidacy. his government is standing by and supporting his appointment.
in writing. leo brincat is a controversial figure. while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name was splashed by the panama papers affair. leo brincat then distinguished himself by voting against the motion of censure against mr mizzi. this case, in my opinion, is a blow to the credibility of this candidacy. i therefore oppose this nomination.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the european parliament shall be consulted for its opinion on the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, held various leading political posts after a brief stint at barclays bank: he was successively secretary of the prime minister's office, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister for finance and trade and member of the foreign affairs committee. he is controversial, particularly because of his support for maltese minister konrad mizzi, who was involved in the panama papers case.
in writing. ‒ the candidate for the post of member of the court of auditors is the former maltese minister for sustainable development, leo brincat. he has publicly defended two ministers in his government who are suspected of being linked to the panama papers case. for a post whose main task is to combat tax evasion, this nomination proposal is unacceptable, i vote against.
in writing. leo brincat is a controversial character. while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers case. leo brincat voted against the motion of censure against minister mizzi. this case casts a shadow over his candidacy. consequently, i voted against his appointment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors for an opinion. the former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office. he held various political positions throughout his career: cabinet secretary to the prime minister, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister of finance and trade, and member of the foreign affairs committee. in parallel, he was director of the strategy research department at hsbc malta. he is not the subject of a full consensus, but he is proposed for this post by the left and the right of the maltese parliament. leo brincat is a controversial character. while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers case. leo brincat voted against the motion of censure against minister mizzi. this case casts a shadow over his candidacy. his government is standing by and supporting his appointment. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of mr brincat to the court of auditors, considering that he is a controversial figure. he openly supported the maltese minister mizzi whose name appeared in the panama papers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report approving the appointment of leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors. indeed, the motives for the nomination remained too vague for me to support.
in writing. ‒ it concerns the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. former maltese minister for the environment, leo brincat, was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office. after a very short stint (in 1966) with barclays, he held various political posts throughout his career: cabinet secretary to the prime minister, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister of finance and trade and member of the foreign affairs committee. he was also director of strategy research at hsbc malta. leo brincat is a controversial character. while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers case. leo brincat voted against the motion of censure against minister mizzi. this case casts a shadow over his candidacy. under the circumstances, i vote against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ we have been asked to give our opinion on the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors. this procedure demonstrates the usefulness of parliament in exercising its control over the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of a member of the european court of auditors, mr leo brincat. the european parliament shall be consulted on the appointment for its opinion. former maltese minister for the environment, he was involved in setting up the maltese national public audit office. after a very short spell (in 1966) at barclays, he held various political posts throughout his career: cabinet secretary to the prime minister, member of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives, minister of finance and commerce and member of the foreign affairs committee. in parallel, he was director of the strategy research department at hsbc malta. leo brincat is a controversial character. while his role is to fight corruption, he has openly supported the maltese minister konrad mizzi (labour party), whose name appeared in the panama papers case. i voted against his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, as a balanced compromise between the interests of the co-legislators had been found.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 471/2009 concerns community statistics on external trade with third countries. the purpose of this decision is to specify the powers of the commission and to lay down the appropriate procedure for the adoption of measures for external trade statistics under those powers. the general objective is to remove, by the end of the seventh parliamentary term and in all legislative instruments, all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and to replace them with procedures with delegated acts and implementing powers. regulation (ec) no 471/2009 of the european parliament and of the council confers on the commission the power to implement certain provisions of that regulation. in order to align regulation (ec) no 471/2009 with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, the implementing powers conferred on the commission by that regulation should be replaced by the power to adopt delegated and implementing acts. the abolition of regulatory procedures with scrutiny and their replacement by delegated acts and implementing powers is a technical measure made mandatory by the adoption of the tfeu. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because, in order to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, the commission is promoting in this documentation a simplification of the legislation on community statistics. this is coupled with a desire to set priorities for data collection in order to better study changes in the economic world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on a technical measure: the replacement of the regulatory procedures with control in the regulation on external trade statistics by delegated acts and implementing powers, which is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, as regards the delegated and implementing powers conferred on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. the regulation provides for the abolition of regulatory procedures with scrutiny and replaces them with procedures with delegated acts and implementing powers. this is simply a matter of bringing it into line with the treaties, and in particular the tfeu, which provides for such replacement in articles 290 and 291 thereof.
in writing. ‒ in order to align regulation (ec) no 471/2009 with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, the implementing powers conferred on the commission by that regulation should be replaced by powers to adopt delegated and implementing acts. this is a purely technical measure. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns regulation no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries. the purpose of this regulation is to determine the prerogatives of the european commission to adopt measures for external trade statistics. in concrete terms, all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny will be deleted from all legislative instruments in order to replace them with procedures with delegated acts and implementing powers. i voted in favour of this technical measure, which was made mandatory by the adoption of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the statistics on the union's external trade with third countries. it focuses mainly on the rules for the practical implementation of eu legislation in this field, namely implementing and delegated acts. i supported the report, as it would help to harmonise and make external trade data more reliable for the purpose of drawing up trade agreements in full knowledge of the facts.
in writing. i supported this text which aligns the regulation on community statistics on external trade with third countries with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union concerning the commission's delegated and implementing powers. it is obvious that we must adapt the legislation to the existing institutional rules.
in writing. ‒ this is the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading on the external trade statistics of the union. the purpose of this text is to define precisely the powers of the commission and to lay down the procedures necessary for the adoption of statistical measures. regulation (ec) no 471/2009 of the european parliament and of the council empowers the commission to implement certain provisions of that regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the abolition of regulatory procedures with scrutiny and their replacement by delegated acts and implementing powers is a technical measure made mandatory by the adoption of the feu treaty.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this decision is to specify the powers of the commission and to lay down the appropriate procedure for the adoption of measures for external trade statistics under those powers. the abolition of regulatory procedures with scrutiny and their replacement by delegated acts and implementing powers is a technical measure made mandatory by the adoption of the feu treaty. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the bernd lange report on the commission's powers in the field of external trade statistics with third countries. the purpose of this text is to abolish an old procedure (the settlement procedure with scrutiny) and replace it with delegated and/or implementing acts. this is part of the better regulation agreement, which i support because it ensures that european legislation best serves citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the lange report on external trade statistics with third countries (delegated powers and implementing powers), following a trilogue agreement which was subsequently endorsed by the council in january 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on statistics on external trade with third countries. the purpose of this decision is to determine the powers of the commission and to lay down the appropriate procedure for the adoption of measures for external trade statistics under those powers. the general objective is to remove, by the end of the seventh parliamentary term and in all legislative instruments, all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and to replace them with procedures with delegated acts and implementing powers. this is a technical measure made compulsory by the adoption of the feu treaty.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of the regulatory procedures with scrutiny with a view to their replacement by delegated and implementing acts is a technical measure made mandatory by the adoption of the feu treaty. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this is the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading on the union's external trade statistics. the purpose of this text is to define precisely the powers of the commission and to lay down the procedures necessary for the adoption of statistical measures. regulation (ec) no 471/2009 of the european parliament and of the council empowers the commission to implement certain provisions of that regulation.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal under consideration aims to align the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 6 may 2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. the text delegates to the commission the power to adopt acts concerning: the list of customs procedures or customs destinations accepted or the exclusion of goods or movements from external trade statistics. statistics are a political issue which cannot be left to the commission's discretion, especially since it will be on the basis of impartial statistics that we will put in place solidarity protectionism. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of regulatory procedures with scrutiny and their replacement by delegated acts and implementing powers is a technical measure made mandatory by the adoption of the feu treaty. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes amendments to a proposal for a regulation introducing a mandatory system of statistics on gas and electricity prices in the residential sector. the abolition of the delegation to the committee (amendments nos 1, 3, 6) is a step in the right direction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the commission proposal is therefore undesirable because of the excessive burden on the states and the companies and the unjustified delegation to the commission. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the lange report on european external trade statistics with third countries deals with a purely technical measure, namely the replacement of the regulatory procedures with scrutiny in the external trade statistics regulation by delegated acts and implementing powers. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on external trade statistics with third countries. the purpose of this was to approve the council's position at first reading on the commission's draft amendment to regulation 471/2009. this amendment is made for the sole purpose of aligning it with the new regime established by the treaty of lisbon. i support all the texts which make european texts easier to read.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of regulatory procedures with scrutiny with a view to their replacement by delegated acts and implementing powers is a technical measure made mandatory by the adoption of the feu treaty. although i remain opposed to the feu treaty, which was adopted against the will of the people who elected me, i do not practice systematic obstruction and therefore vote in favour of this purely technical measure.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement between the european commission, the council of the european union and the european parliament, which makes technical amendments to regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries, in accordance with the new institutional context on delegated and implementing powers.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an agreement on external trade statistics with third countries at second reading. under the previous mandate, the commission undertook to revise the legislative acts which currently contain references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. i therefore voted in favour of this technical text.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of regulatory procedures with scrutiny and their replacement by delegated acts and implementing powers is a technical and automatic measure made mandatory by the adoption of the feu treaty. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation provides for compulsory collection of statistics on the prices of electricity and gas supplied to private individuals, whereas this collection was previously voluntary. for companies, a 2008 directive already made this collection compulsory. this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which, "put into competition", will "lower prices". the commission has forced france to increase edf's tariffs from 2007 onwards in order to artificially create a competitive electricity market. as regards gas, it is a challenge to believe that private actors, not backed by governments, will guarantee a secure and affordable supply. beyond this general consideration, three criticisms can be made of the text: the choice of the regulation over the directive; a delegation of power (articles 9 and 10) without a time limit; an additional reporting system which will burden the management of the undertakings concerned. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to move from a voluntary to a mandatory basis, in order to avoid the problems in collecting data reported by several member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this commission proposal, which seeks to strengthen the obligations imposed on the states: the level of constraint is too high for the states and the companies, and this new delegation of powers to the commission seems to me totally unjustified.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i had to vote against this legislative resolution by my colleague kappel on the proposal for a regulation on european gas and electricity price statistics. despite an attempt by the rapporteur to amend this text in a way more favourable to the industrial sovereignty of european nations, the amendments were stripped of their content in the itre committee. the aim of this proposal is nothing other than the europeanisation of the industrial sector, since european statistics must encourage the creation of oligopolies, first european and then transatlantic, in the same logic of massive liberalisation. it should be recalled that this competition, which was supposed to bring down prices for consumers, had the opposite effect when, for example, the commission pushed france to increase edf's tariffs in 2007 in order to artificially create (so where is the invisible hand?) competition on the electricity market. the commission, by choosing to go through the regulation rather than the directive, is continuing its attempt to have total control over the member states, without any guarantee of added value for consumers.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to amend a proposal for a regulation which provides for the compulsory collection of statistics on the prices of gas and electricity supplied to private individuals in the residential sector. it should be recalled that a 2008 directive already made this collection compulsory for companies. according to this regulation, the production of european statistics should lead to the creation of transnational and then transatlantic european oligopolies, which would promote competition and thus lower prices. it should be recalled that the european commission imposed an increase in edf tariffs on france in 2007 in order to artificially create a competitive electricity market. therefore, it is an illusion to believe that private actors without state support will guarantee a safe and affordable supply for consumers. although this report opposes the delegation of powers to the commission without a time limit, i voted against this text which will increase the administrative burden on member states and businesses.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report deals with the compilation of gas and electricity price statistics. as i am opposed to the values and political principles advocated by the rapporteur, barbara kappell, an austrian member of parliament and a member of the europe-friendly group europe of nations and freedoms, i have decided not to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, but against the commission's proposal and against the delegation mandate. this text complements the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the aim is to collect european statistics to encourage the creation of transnational european oligopolies. however, this text should logically be the subject of a directive, not a regulation. secondly, the delegation of power to the commission is not limited in time. finally, the system imposes a burdensome administrative management which creates difficulties for the undertakings concerned.
in writing. ‒ vote against the commission proposal, against the negotiating mandate and for the report: even with the amendments to remove the delegation limiting the scope, the commission proposal does not seem good enough to be voted on, because of a level of constraint too high for states and businesses and an unjustified delegation to the commission.
in writing. ‒ the text provides for compulsory collection of statistics on the prices of electricity and gas supplied to private individuals, whereas this collection was voluntary. for companies, a 2008 directive already made this collection compulsory. this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which will be "competitive" and "bring down prices". however, the opposite has happened, the european commission forced france to increase edf's tariffs from 2007 onwards, in order to create an artificial competitive electricity market. moreover, in the case of gas, it is a fallacy to believe that private actors, not backed by states, will guarantee a secure and affordable supply. the abolition of the delegation to the committee (amendments 1, 3, 6) is a step in the right direction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i voted in favour of the report, although i was opposed to the commission's proposal and the negotiating mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it strengthens the obligations on the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on gas and electricity price statistics. the text provides for compulsory collection of statistics on the prices of electricity and gas supplied to private individuals, whereas this collection was voluntary. for companies, a 2008 directive already made this collection compulsory. this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which will be "competitive" and "bring down prices". however, the opposite has happened, the european commission forced france to increase edf's tariffs from 2007 onwards, in order to create an artificial competitive electricity market. moreover, in the case of gas, it is a fallacy to believe that private actors, not backed by states, will guarantee a secure and affordable supply.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal does not seem acceptable to me, because of the high level of constraints on states and businesses and the unjustified delegation to the commission. i therefore voted against the commission's proposal, against the negotiating mandate and for the report itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, but against the commission's proposal and against the delegation mandate. this text is ancillary to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the aim is to collect european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european oligopolies. i have three main criticisms of the texts: firstly, this text should logically be the subject of a directive, not a regulation. secondly, the delegation of power to the commission is not limited in time. finally, the system imposes a burdensome administrative management which creates difficulties for the undertakings concerned.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices since the 1970s. however, the provision of such data remains optional for residential customers' prices. the aim of the text is to make this procedure compulsory. it also seeks to specify the modalities of the data collection so that the data collected are 'quality, complete and comparable data indicating the price of natural gas and electricity'. the existence of comparable data in this area will be beneficial for consumers and end-users. i am voting for this text, regretting the political identity of its author.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal does not seem acceptable because of a too high level of constraint on states and businesses and an unjustified delegation to the commission. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report on gas and electricity price statistics proposes amendments to a proposal for a regulation introducing a mandatory system of gas and electricity price statistics in the residential sector. however, this report strengthens the obligations of the member states and places strong constraints on businesses. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the text provides for compulsory collection of statistics on the prices of electricity and gas supplied to private individuals, whereas this collection was voluntary. for companies, a 2008 directive already made this collection compulsory. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which, "put into competition", will "lower prices". however, the opposite has happened, the european commission forced france to increase edf's tariffs from 2007 onwards, in order to artificially create a competitive electricity market. moreover, it is difficult to believe that private actors without state support will guarantee a safe and affordable supply. beyond this general consideration, three criticisms can be made of the text: the choice of the regulation over the directive, when it is a text for the harmonization of statistical tools. as usual, the eu wants to get its hands on the statistical tool of the member states directly through a directly applicable regulation; a delegation of power (articles 9 and 10) without limitation in time; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the amendments respecting the sovereignty of states have been rejected, so i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the text provides for compulsory collection of statistics on the prices of electricity and gas supplied to private individuals, whereas this collection was voluntary. for companies, a 2008 directive already made this collection compulsory. this proposal is an accessory to the energy liberalisation packages adopted in the years 2004-2012. the stated aim is to produce european statistics and then to encourage the creation of transnational european and then transatlantic oligopolies which, "put into competition", will "lower prices". however, the opposite has happened, the european commission forced france to increase edf's tariffs from 2007 onwards, in order to artificially create a competitive electricity market. moreover, in the case of gas, it is a fallacy to believe that private actors, not backed by states, will guarantee a secure and affordable supply. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is going in the right direction: developing a clean market for the future, which works for consumers and ensures affordable energy. these must be our priorities.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the new energy market, driven by the guidelines adopted in the context of the energy union. this concerns macroeconomic issues in the energy market (production capacity, wholesale market, interconnection), but is repeated with the energy union and interconnection reports, 7 months away. the report seeks to give acer more powers, in the name of enhanced coordination at regional level, with the aim of gradually moving it from the role of coordinator between national regulators to a supranational regulator, although the report remains cautious about this development. the text is in the illusion of an integrated energy market and the energy union (points 3 and 4), to this end it is supporting states which are not moving fast enough in the change by also speaking out against national capacity mechanisms (point 9), and puts the market before security of supply, as all european texts in this field do. finally, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the climate and energy objectives to be achieved, which will require a fundamental transformation of the european electricity system, as well as the reorganisation of the european electricity market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this very liberal report, which once again aims at deregulating the energy market in the name of the so-called fight against (state) monopolies.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on the energy market, despite some positive points which should be highlighted. the need for investment in the grid, coordination between states at regional level, or respect for the principle of subsidiarity are all ideas i believe in, as is the recall of national competence on the energy mix. however, once again a parliamentary report (which is also a duplicate of the report on the energy union, voted on only seven months ago) is in favour of a federal europe by the policy of small steps: the aim is to make the member states gradually concede whole sections of their competences, under false pretenses. the technique here is to give more power to acer (european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators), which is increasingly emerging as a transnational regulator instead of a coordinator of national regulators. apart from this ideological aim, the report is unrealistic since it puts the market before security of supply, in the name of the sacrosanct energy union.
in writing. ‒ this report uses ecology to strengthen the eu's supranational power over the member states. his thoughts on electricity storage for renewable energy are characterised by utopia. i consider the role of the state in energy matters to be essential, particularly in the area of security of supply. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the new energy market brought about by the guidelines adopted in the context of the energy union. although the text emphasises the need to finance further investment in the network, i opposed this report which promotes the energy union. on the one hand, this report aims to strengthen the powers of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) in the name of better coordination between national regulators. it goes without saying that the unspoken objective of this report is to give acer a role as a supranational regulator to the detriment of the sovereignty of the member states. on the other hand, the european union is using ecology as a pretext to move towards a european federalism and to destroy national companies enjoying a natural monopoly. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report by the european parliament is a response to the commission's communication and public consultation on a new electricity market organisation. the fact is that we need a more interconnected european electricity market. we must also ensure greater energy independence and improve the security of electricity supply. it is also essential to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of energy policy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report follows the european commission's communication on 'a new energy market organisation' published in july 2015. the report aims to strengthen the internal market and allow the free movement of electricity. it proposes to establish a regional control of security of supply and clear european system adequacy standards to determine whether a capacity mechanism is really necessary. considering that it is necessary to fully integrate renewable energies into the common electricity grid by ensuring that their specificities (e.g. intermittency) are better taken into account, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which has no binding legislative value and calls for a new organisation of the energy market in europe. i am particularly in favour of strengthening the integrated energy market, in particular to ensure a stability conducive to investment in this area. moreover, in view of our environmental objectives, it is essential to encourage the european union and its member states to move towards greater energy efficiency, enabling lower consumption and encouraging the development of renewable energies.
in writing. the union has an energy and climate framework that foresees a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to the 1990 level, a 30% improvement in energy efficiency and a 27% increase in the share of renewable energy in the eu's energy mix. these objectives cannot be achieved without a fundamental reorganisation of the european electricity sector. we need to develop clean energy, improve energy savings. this requires innovation and, above all, better coordination of our national policies. finally, europe must have an autonomous energy policy, which guarantees its independence.
in writing. ‒ despite the incentive to invest in the network, it is regrettable that the increased powers granted to acer, the supranational regulator, have been at the expense of the authority of the states. market ideology takes precedence over the security of supply of states. for these reasons, we cannot support this report. i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises, in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's reports on energy follow one another and are similar: the same call for a single energy market, which denies the exclusive competence of the states recognised by the treaties to choose their energy mix; the same mistaken belief in the market's ability to set the right price for energy, satisfactory for both producer and consumer and promoting long-term investment; the same emphasis on the need to make the electricity system more flexible, as a consequence of the requirement for increasing use of intermittent energy sources, to suggest pathways that will soon become constraints; and above all, the same ignorance of the specific situations of the states, particularly with regard to security of supply. like it or not, france does not have the same energy problems or challenges as germany or lithuania. it is not without reason that it has chosen, for example, a capacity mechanism to guarantee the supply of electricity in the event of a peak in consumption, rather than strategic reserves. as usual, i voted against a text which calls into question the independence of states' choice in highly sovereign areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. he proposes to reorganise the electricity market. in particular, it is important to strengthen regional cooperation on all supply and demand dimensions in order to be able to achieve all the energy and climate objectives set by the union for 2030. the current regulatory framework for european markets needs to be adapted to allow for an increase in the share of renewable energy and to address existing regulatory gaps at cross-border level. in an increasingly decentralised energy system, there is a need to further stimulate investment, access of smes to the energy market and ensure sustainable and efficient electricity supply through a smart energy system.
in writing. ‒ this text recites the eu mantras on renewable energy and long passages on storage (essential for intermittent solar and wind energy) (points 26 to 36) which are perfectly utopian in the current state of research. the report has a very centrist tone: it is a caress of the hair of the states on the issues regulated by the treaties (energy mix), it is based on a scalable approach to gnaw at the competences of the states and it is based on a so-called energy market, which is, despite what the rapporteur says, a natural monopoly. as usual, renewable energies are a pretext for strengthening european federalism and destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr werner langen. this report aims to promote the free movement of electricity in europe, for a more efficient regional approach. a regional approach to secure electricity supplies and the establishment of clearer and fairer pricing. the energy issue in europe is central and i would like to support a text that is a first step towards a legislative proposal on the organisation of the energy market expected by the end of 2016. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to make the energy market more flexible, particularly the electricity sector. an acceptable compromise was reached on the possibility of establishing capacity mechanisms that ensure a certain security of supply. this report follows the commission communication and the public consultation on 'a new energy market organisation' published in july 2015. a legislative proposal on the organisation of the energy market is expected by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this energy report because it is ultra-liberal in spirit.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'towards a new organisation of the energy market'. firstly, the report calls for the acer to be given greater powers in the name of greater coordination at regional level (paragraphs 70 and 72), with the aim of gradually moving it from the role of coordinator between national regulators to a supranational regulatory role. the report also maintains the illusion of an integrated energy market and the energy union (points 3 and 4), blaming the member states for not moving fast enough in the change process. it also opposes national capacity mechanisms (point 9) and puts the market before security of supply, as all european texts in this field do. as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies.
in writing. ‒ the progressive approach mentioned is a way of limiting the competences of the member states a little more, in an almost painless way. moreover, the energy market is logically a natural monopoly, even though the states have almost no room for manoeuvre on matters governed by the treaties. the states, whatever the rapporteur says, are always the losers, whatever the dress and the formulas used. ecology is, as is too often the case, used as a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity required by energy sources. i could only vote against that resolution.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to clarify the european parliament's position on the european commission's legislative proposal on a new energy market organisation due to be published in december 2016. given the evolution of our energy supply (methods and locations of production, development of renewable energy, etc.), the market must necessarily adapt to these changes. this report sets out options for achieving a more fluid, open and integrated energy market. it proposes, for example, to increase interconnections so that energy services and supplies flow across national borders on the basis of local and regional needs. the energy supply for 500 million europeans is a crucial issue; i therefore vote in favour of this report, which has a broad consensus in parliament and respects the approach of our political group.
in writing. - i voted for this text. despite the incentive to invest in the network, we criticise the enhanced powers granted to the supranational regulator, the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), at the expense of the authority of the states. market ideology takes precedence over the security of supply of states. for these reasons, we cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ the evolutionary approach mentioned is a way of limiting the competences of the member states a little more in a painless way. moreover, the energy market is logically a natural monopoly, and the states have almost no room for manoeuvre on matters governed by the treaties. the states, whatever the rapporteur says, are always the losers, whatever the dress and the formulas used. ecology is, as too often, a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises in the name of the fluidity needed by energy. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this langen report towards a new energy market organisation deals with the new energy market brought about by the changes brought about by the energy union. the report has some positive aspects (investment in the grid, reiteration of national competence on the energy mix, etc.). however, other points are tainted by the report, such as the strengthening of the powers of acer, the endless promotion of the energy union, all tinged with liberalism. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new energy market organisation. i support in particular the desire to make it more flexible and to strengthen the security of supply, which is fundamental for our continent, in particular by creating an interconnected market at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague werner langen (epp). the report highlights the desire to strengthen the internal energy market to allow for a freer flow of electricity. to this end, regional cooperation and coordination on energy policies should be strengthened, and cross-border exchanges encouraged.
in writing. ‒ the report has a very centrist tone: it is a caress of the hair of the states on issues regulated by the treaties (energy mix), it is based on an evolutionary approach to gnaw at the competences of the states and it is based on a so-called energy market, which is, despite what the rapporteur says, a natural monopoly. as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises, in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages the strengthening of the internal energy market, in particular by allowing the free movement of electricity, in conjunction with cross-border competition which will stimulate appropriate investments for the sector. regional cooperation and coordination on energy policies are needed. the report also points to the possibility of implementing capacity mechanisms to ensure security of supply for european citizens. the energy union is a good example of the usefulness of cooperation between states in a sector where the national perspective alone is not sufficient to meet the expectations and needs of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, the main objective of which is to make the energy market more flexible, particularly the electricity sector. the report calls for a reorganized electricity market, combined with the implementation of existing legislation. in this sense, the regulatory framework needs to be amended to allow for the improvement of the share of renewable energy and to fill existing gaps in regulation at cross-border level. it is regrettable that there are still significant gaps in the interconnection between member states. new approaches are needed to overcome bottlenecks and achieve a smart distribution network that allows for the proper integration of the various energy market players. i supported this report because it recalls the importance of a more flexible energy market, targeting renewable energy and better integrated within the union.
in writing. ‒ the report has a very centrist tone: it is a caress of the hair of the states on issues regulated by the treaties (energy mix), it is based on an evolutionary approach to gnaw at the competences of the states and it is based on a so-called energy market, which is, despite what the rapporteur says, a natural monopoly. as usual, ecology (in this case renewable energies) is a pretext for strengthening european federalism and for destroying national enterprises, in the name of the fluidity required by intermittent energies. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to make the eu the world's leading producer of energy from renewable sources. that would be a good thing in itself if it were not contradicted by facts and actions. if it were really a question of allowing the development of renewable energies and ending dependence on both nuclear and fossil fuels, i would be totally in favour. in reality, the eu spends a lot of money on nuclear energy and very little on renewable energy, including research. it is developing free trade agreements all over the world which lead to aberrations in export policy, particularly with regard to the carbon footprint, supposedly to break prices, but which above all break the rights of workers and workers themselves, and i am not talking about the multitude of armed conflicts to ensure control of fossil fuels. this text does not create any illusions and when it claims that the internal energy market will better protect consumers by fighting against price regulation and subsidies, my indignation knows no bounds, as if energy poverty linked to the growing increase in poverty were not a growing scourge in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. heating and cooling account for about half of the eu's final energy demand. this is why it is so important to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to reduce our dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions and lower costs for consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
in writing. ‒ despite the good measures proposed, france does not need the eu's recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case in the field of heating and cooling. the problems of central europe, with its often outdated and/or highly polluting facilities, are not the same as those of our own country and the interpretation of the text could well be against our interests by imposing heavy constraints on individuals and by accelerating the disfigurement or outright destruction of our heritage. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets out a european union strategy for heating and cooling, setting out proposals to reduce energy use in buildings. i believe that renovating buildings is one of the simplest ways to use energy more efficiently and to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions.
in writing. ‒ this text, written by a polish author and mainly concerned with eastern european countries, poses potentially serious threats to our architectural heritage. there is a caution for historic buildings . however, in addition to the fact that the concept remains vague (given the different legislation on heritage protection, with only 44 000 buildings protected in france against more than 1 000 000 in germany), paragraph 23 for example asks the local authorities to deal with the specific problems of rural buildings, which are generally older, less energy-efficient and less beneficial to health and provide less thermal comfort. you mean the outside insulation? this risk to our heritage (in the broad sense) is all the greater as the current trend in france is to give more and more decision-making power to local buildings, which generally do not have the required skills and which can hardly withstand the various pressures (in particular from the btp), to the detriment of the architects of the buildings of france. this text therefore risks accelerating the disfigurement and even the outright destruction of our heritage in the name of energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the eu heating and cooling strategy because the measures it proposes risk endangering our architectural heritage, especially in rural areas. while energy efficiency is a worthy goal, the text urges local authorities to take action on rural buildings, which are considered to be older, less energy-efficient and less beneficial for health. in addition to the danger that such measures would pose to our assets, it should be remembered that the constant change in standards poses a certain cost problem, particularly for individuals who have to invest, according to the report, in reversible heat pumps or in thermal insulation works. while there are attempts in the text to be cautious about 'historic buildings', this precaution is fragile given the legal vagueness surrounding this definition. it should also be noted that despite the precaution included in the energy transition act for the protection of the old building in insulation operations, the implementing decree was quick to mitigate this assurance as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ this text calls on member states and local authorities to save energy for heating and cooling. energy saving is here considered as the first clean fuel. in paragraph 23 it emphasizes rural buildings with a clear risk to the rural heritage of france. i voted against this paragraph as it was adopted.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to increase energy efficiency and encourages the use of renewable energy for heating and cooling with a target of 100% by 2050. to achieve this, the report proposes to rely on geothermal energy, the production of biomethane, the priority use of local raw materials or the recovery of industrial heat. although it is necessary in the member states to tackle energy waste in order to reduce our energy bill, there is still the question of financing the infrastructure to achieve this, such as thermal insulation and reversible heat pumps. however, there is a concern that this work will be carried out by private individuals despite the existence of a subsidy system. the report also recommends that energy saving studies be carried out in historic buildings to improve their energy performance. there is no guarantee that adequate work will ensure the protection and preservation of our cultural heritage. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is about the european commission's proposal to launch its first strategy to tackle massive energy consumption, which is considered one of the priorities of the energy union. the parliament's report underlines the importance of urban energy networks and calls on member states to reduce the use of boilers. it also stresses the importance of investing in research and innovation in this area. considering that more efficient use of energy must help the union to achieve the objectives of cop21 and help european citizens to reduce their energy bills, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report on the european union's heating and cooling strategy sets out the european parliament's recommendations to address the massive energy consumption in this sector. with almost 50% of final energy demand in the european union used for heating and cooling, guidelines are needed to improve energy efficiency, mainly in buildings. i believe that there is a particular need to encourage research and innovation in this area in order to enable not only better insulation, which will generate energy savings, but also to develop the use of renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ this text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june. the stated objective is to achieve 100% renewable energy. despite this seemingly laudable objective, there are fears that a form of energy austerity is being imposed on the peoples of europe. in addition, this text puts our heritage at serious risk by advocating an improvement in their energy performance at the expense of preserving their heritage value. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ 40% of the eu's energy consumption is used for heating and cooling buildings. although i am convinced that this is an important source of energy savings and probably of savings in the short and long term, i voted against this report. because hell is paved with good intentions, but also with many of the measures proposed. the 'smart boilers', for example, are reminiscent of the controversy surrounding the smart meters, which are concerned with health problems, privacy, untimely power cuts and without even the assurance of real savings. germany has decided to do without it. it's a sign. the new equipment is also recommended, which will inevitably be very expensive for households. and there is also the encouragement, if not the obligation, of the external insulation of old buildings. this obligation already exists in french law, via a highly controversial decree implementing the law on energy transition. it risks destroying many of the picturesque facades that give charm and beauty to many of france's towns and villages. there is no guarantee of effectiveness. this lucrative market could bring in €800 million for professionals. it's the price of ugliness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. we need a real strategy for the heating and cooling sector. this sector accounts for almost half of europe's energy consumption! it is therefore essential to take targeted measures for this sector and strongly encourage energy efficiency improvements through better heating and cooling systems. in particular, under the energy efficiency directive, member states are required to implement national renovation plans for buildings without delay. let's not waste time!
in writing. ‒ this text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june. by encouraging the development of renewable energy, with a 100% target for heating and cooling by 2050, it is above all energy efficiency that it advocates, i.e. energy savings considered as the 'first fuel' (recital a). to this end, in addition to encouraging geothermal energy, the production of biomethane (explicitly in paragraphs 52 and 100) and more generally the priority use of local raw materials (93), but also to emphasise the recovery of industrial heat, the report recommends above all appropriate architectural solutions. these recommendations are mixed with the very demagogic aspect of 'fighting energy poverty'. too restrictive rules will pose a significant risk to our heritage (in the broad sense), all the more so since the current trend in france is to give more and more decision-making power to local buildings, which generally do not have the required skills and can hardly withstand the various pressures (especially from the btp), to the detriment of the architects of the buildings of france. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gierek report for an eu strategy on heating and cooling. the text calls for a more targeted strategy by encouraging local energy initiatives. my vote was encouraged by the local approach to the text, with its emphasis on energy efficiency and the importance of research and innovation on european territory. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gierek report on a european union strategy for heating and cooling, which calls for a more targeted strategy for this sector, which accounts for 50% of the union's energy consumption, with renewable energy accounting for only 18% of this consumption, compared with 75% for fossil fuels. this is one of the priorities of the energy union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because france does not need the eu's recommendations to define its energy policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu heating and cooling strategy. despite some good measures proposed, france does not need the eu's recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case in the field of heating and cooling. the problems of central europe, with its often old and/or highly polluting installations (especially in poland, the rapporteur's country), are not the same as those of our own, and the interpretation of the text could well be against our interests (by imposing heavy constraints on individuals... and by accelerating the disfigurement or outright destruction of our heritage).
in writing. ‒ in encouraging the development of renewable energy sources, the report recommends energy efficiency as the main priority. in fact, these incessant calls for energy efficiency can be seen as a form of energy austerity. moreover, there is a fear that this text may serve certain interests of the btp, to the detriment of our heritage. this risk to our heritage (in the broad sense) is all the greater as the current trend in france is to give more and more decision-making power to local executives, who generally do not have the required skills and who can hardly resist the various pressures (especially from the btp), to the detriment of the architects of the buildings of france. in general, despite some good measures proposed, france does not need eu recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case for heating and cooling. the problems of central europe are not the same as those of western europe and the interpretation of the text may be to the detriment of the interests of the french. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. the text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june. the stated objective is to achieve 100% renewable energy. despite this seemingly laudable objective, there are fears that a form of energy austerity is being imposed on the peoples of europe. in addition, this text puts our heritage at serious risk by advocating an improvement in their energy performance at the expense of preserving their heritage value.
in writing. ‒ gas remains the main source of energy for heating and cooling homes, public and industrial buildings. while the report is concerned with promoting renewable energy, it first points out that 75% of the existing building stock is energy inefficient. and it is the rural households or the modest households that are the first to be hit by the huge bills. the report calls on the commission to plan for aid to the most vulnerable consumers from eu funds and to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. it highlights the potential of rehabilitation of these housing units in terms of the creation of local non-relocatable jobs in the insulation and building sector. it encourages the development and research (without reference to the private sector) of alternative methods of its own, such as geothermal energy. but, despite an interesting analysis which should logically allow for general and effective strategic planning, it is still logical to have a new market for energy-efficient products and services, or to support the union's emission quota system. again and again the metaphysics of the market. i am therefore forced to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in encouraging the development of renewable energy sources, the report recommends energy efficiency as the main priority. in fact, these incessant calls for energy efficiency can be seen as a form of energy austerity. moreover, there is a fear that this text may serve certain interests of the btp to the detriment of our heritage. this risk to our heritage (in the broad sense) is all the greater as the current trend in france is to give more and more decision-making power to local executives, who generally do not have the required skills and who can hardly resist the various pressures (especially from the btp), to the detriment of the architects of the buildings of france. in general, despite some good measures proposed, france does not need eu recommendations to define its energy policy, in this case for heating and cooling. the problems of central europe are not the same as those of western europe and the interpretation of the text may be to the detriment of the interests of the french. it is for all these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this text extends the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june. it encourages the development of renewable energy, with a target of 100% for heating and cooling by 2050. it is feared that this text may serve certain interests of the btp to the detriment of our heritage. energy efficiency must not be the eternal alibi of the btp lobbyists to destroy our living environment, especially the old, rural and historic building, too often neglected in favour of the turnover of the big building brands.
in writing. ‒ this text on the eu's heating and cooling strategy is a follow-up to the pieper report on energy efficiency adopted in brussels in june. it encourages the development of renewable energies to achieve energy savings (geothermal energy, biomethane, priority use of local raw materials, etc.). however, this report could, if interpreted broadly, imply a threat to our rural heritage. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report relates to the implementation of a european heating and cooling strategy. this sector, which accounts for half of europe's energy consumption, needs special attention. this is the purpose of this text. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu's heating and cooling strategy. this is an invitation to member states to modernise their heating systems. research and technological innovation can do much in this area and investment in modernisation of heating and cooling facilities should be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ despite some positive measures, this text has some serious shortcomings. it treats all the countries of the european union in the same way, whereas the state of the installations has nothing to do with the countries of western europe and those of eastern europe. there is a very high risk that the text will be interpreted in an exaggerated way in france, imposing very heavy constraints and directly threatening the survival of our precious architectural heritage. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the energy union, the european commission has launched a strategy to combat massive energy consumption. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the member states to gradually reduce the use of obsolete heating systems, particularly in urban areas. research and innovation must be used to renew energy networks and the modernisation of heating and cooling systems must be a priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for a more targeted strategy for heating and cooling, a sector which accounts for almost half of europe's energy consumption. the report highlights the need for specific measures for heating and cooling in the revision of the energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy performance of buildings directives. long-term strategies for this sector need to be defined and implemented, with particular attention to renewable energy. i supported this report because it identifies certain priorities such as the modernisation of old and inefficient heating systems, the acceleration of the phasing out of obsolete heating systems and the renovation of buildings. an attractive financing system must promote new technologies for heating european citizens using renewable energy sources.
in writing. ‒ this text encourages the development of renewable energy, with a target of 100% for heating and cooling by 2050. however, in addition to the fact that these incessant calls for energy efficiency can be considered as a form of energy austerity which is not likely to allow the so often announced recovery, it is feared that this text serves certain interests of the btp to the detriment of our heritage... not to mention the eternal problems related to the financing of certain standardization work, especially for individuals, even if the text speaks of various aids. in france, the law on energy transition had taken into account in its article 14 the need to protect the old building from external insulation operations. however, an implementing decree published in the official journal on 31 may virtually abolished this necessary precaution. this risk to our heritage (in the broad sense) is all the greater as the current trend in france is to give more and more decision-making power to local buildings, which generally do not have the required skills and can hardly withstand the various pressures (especially from the btp), to the detriment of the architects of the buildings of france. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the competitiveness of smes, which generate 100 million jobs in the european union, or one third of all private sector jobs. some good ideas are to be noted: reduction of payment delays and administrative simplification for the benefit of the beneficiaries of the structural funds, simplification of access to credit for smes. although cohesion policy is the best way of mitigating the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes, massive injections of public funds are not a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes. in this context, i abstained on this report. i believe that it does not really tackle the root causes of the problems faced by smes in terms of competitiveness, financing and cash flow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for simplification of administrative procedures, better access to finance for smes, and emphasises the fundamental role of local governments which are directly or indirectly involved in the monitoring committees of the programmes. smes are essential to the development and prosperity of our economy.
in writing. ‒ there are over 23 million smes in the eu, or 99% of enterprises. these smes generate 100 million jobs, or two thirds of private sector jobs. 14% of available eu funds are allocated to smes, or over €140 billion for the 2014-2020 programming period. this report does not address the roots of the competitiveness, financing or cash flow difficulties faced by smes, namely: unfair international competition exacerbated by social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by emerging countries and some member states; the single currency which deprives states of the monetary lever to reduce competitiveness gaps with their trading partners; the prohibition in the european treaties of economic patriotism, in particular by giving priority to resident enterprises in the award of public contracts; the tightening of credit conditions brought about by the basel iii agreements. in no case will massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, like the european parliament, i have always made smes the indispensable basis for job creation in europe. smes are the backbone of the eu economy and have a huge potential for job creation, accounting for 85% of new jobs; 20.7 million smes account for over 67% of private sector employment in the european union, 30% of which are micro enterprises. parliament also believes that 'smes are the main drivers of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation opportunities in the 28 member states'.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the best way to mitigate the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will the massive injection of public money, particularly through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes (unfair competition, the non-optimality of the euro area, the prohibition of economic patriotism).
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on strengthening the competitiveness of smes. i agree with the rapporteur on many points. i have always been in favour of administrative simplification for smes and in particular for the beneficiaries of the european structural funds which are the subject of this report. i also want to see payment delays linked to cohesion policy funds reduced as much as possible and, as a basic necessity, to simplify access to credit for smes. however, i regret that this report does not address the roots of the 'evil' in terms of competitiveness or funding for smes. the text thus fails to mention the problem of unfair competition, the result of social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by european companies. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community. in general, the prohibition by brussels of establishing a genuine economic patriotism that would favour enterprises, allowing them to be given priority in the award of public contracts for example.
in writing. ‒ although i am in favour of supporting smes and all the wishes in this text are in this direction, i note once again in this report that the real roots of the evil are not identified and even less combated (single currency, open borders to all kinds of dumping and prohibition of economic patriotism). therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the 23 million smes in the european union. we share most of the ideas advocated in this report, such as administrative simplification for the benefit of the beneficiaries of the european structural funds, increased synergies between the european structural funds and simplified access to credit for smes. we note, however, that the rapporteur does not put forward any concrete way of achieving these wishes. moreover, this report does not address the root causes of the problems faced by smes in terms of financing, cash flow or competitiveness. no challenge to the posting of workers directive, which exacerbates unfair competition within the union, no comment on the european treaties which prohibit member states from awarding public contracts to their smes. in reality, cohesion policy is the best way to mitigate the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy. they represent 100 million jobs and make a huge contribution to the union's economic growth. the european union's cohesion policy, through its structural and investment funds, is helping to finance smes. it is therefore essential that cohesion policy offers instruments adapted to the specificities of these enterprises. in this context, it is important to strengthen the support of the structural and investment funds to smes. it is also necessary to remove the bureaucratic and regulatory barriers that prevent smes from accessing this financial support. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to establish a strategy to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. the report proposes thematic consultation in the establishment of cohesion policy with clear objectives, in particular to strengthen growth and create quality jobs in smes. considering that small and medium-sized enterprises, which are at the heart of the european union's economic model, should benefit from union support for their competitiveness, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the adoption by a large majority of this report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'strengthening the competitiveness of smes' is an extremely positive signal to the 23 million smes in the european union, the real heart of our economies. while the development and prosperity of these enterprises undeniably determine european growth, but also enable social cohesion, it is essential to strengthen their competitiveness, in particular through an adequate contribution from the esi funds (european structural and investment funds). the importance of access to finance is very rightly emphasised in this report.
in writing. ‒ today, 14 per cent of available eu funds are allocated to the 23 million smes, or more than €140 billion for the 2014-2020 programming period. the report points to the administrative burden of the european structural funds' grant schemes, the frequent delays in payment and the difficulties in accessing credit. apart from the findings, which we agree with, the report does not propose any concrete solutions. in particular, it does not call into question unfair competition, the suboptimal character of the euro area and the tightening of credit conditions brought about by the basel iii agreements. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: cohesion policy is the best way to mitigate the adverse effects of eu policies on employment and investment in smes.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the best way to mitigate the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the damato report on strengthening the competitiveness of smes, which is a priority objective of european regional policy. the report takes stock of the results achieved to date with eu funds and draws lessons for the future. it takes up the proposals i made in the committee on regional development, aimed in particular at providing a stable framework for smes and at drastically reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. as i argued in my report on sme financing, the amato report also calls for a major simplification of access to european funds for these companies, which are too often discouraged by the complexity of the procedures. i believe that the financing and competitiveness of smes and small businesses must be at the heart of the european union's priorities, which is why i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides an early assessment of the thematic objective 'strengthening the competitiveness of smes'. this is the first report on the implementation of this policy for the 2014-2020 financial programming period, measuring the achievement of the objectives to date and seeking to draw conclusions for the future.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because the cohesion policy it supports is the best way to mitigate the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will the massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes (unfair competition, the eurozone's deficiencies, the prohibition of economic patriotism).
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on strengthening the competitiveness of smes. there are more than 23 million smes in the european union, or 99% of all enterprises. these smes generate 100 million jobs, or two thirds of private sector jobs. i share most of the ideas in this report, but it does not address the root causes of the difficulties smes face in terms of competitiveness, financing or cash flow. i will mention the unfair international competition exacerbated by social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by emerging countries and some member states; the non-optimality of the euro area, which does not allow exogenous asymmetric shocks to be contained; the single currency, which deprives member states of the monetary leverage to reduce the competitiveness gaps with their trading partners; the european union has also adopted a number of measures to combat discrimination against women in the labour market, including the prohibition in the european treaties of economic patriotism, in particular by giving priority to resident enterprises in the award of public contracts.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the best way of mitigating the negative effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. on the other hand, the massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, cannot in the long term alleviate the difficulties faced by smes. i therefore abstained on that report.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential to the economies of europe's regions in terms of employment and competitiveness. for the period 2014-2020, more than €63 billion has been allocated to improving the competitiveness of smes through the european structural and investment funds. the report calls for simplification of administrative procedures and easier access to finance for these smes. it also stresses the important role that local authorities must play in creating regional strategies for the development of successful smes. i support this report which encourages the competitiveness of europe's 23 million smes, which are essential tools for the eu's economic development.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. although we agree with most of the ideas in the text, we see that there is no measure to achieve this. the text does not, however, dispute unfair international competition, the single currency depriving member states of the monetary leverage to reduce the competitiveness gap with their trading partners, or the tightening of credit conditions brought about by the basel iii agreements. this cohesion policy is the best way of mitigating the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes, but simply injecting massive amounts of public money will not provide a lasting solution to the difficulties encountered. as is often the case, it is the consequences that must be tackled, not the causes.
in writing. ‒ the report recalls that smes are essential to the economy of the eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. it also stresses that the problems faced by smes are partly due to the fact that the austerity policies implemented by the member states have stifled demand. to remedy this, it called for simplified and less regulated access to credit for smes, in particular through the esi funds (esf, erdf, cohesion fund, emff and eafrd). i regret, however, that reference is still made to the capital markets union, which aims to develop shadow banking as a source of finance for smes, which can increase the risk of banking dominoes in the event of crises. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the best way to mitigate the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes. i therefore abstained on that report.
in writing. ‒ we share most of the ideas defended in this report, but it does not provide any serious and concrete ideas for achieving these wishes (administrative simplification, access to credit, etc.). this report does not address the roots of the difficulties smes face in terms of competitiveness, financing or cash flow, namely the euro, the lack of transmission of accommodative monetary policies to the real economy, administrative complexity, etc. in summary, cohesion policy is the best way to mitigate the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes.
in writing. ‒ this report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'strengthening the competitiveness of smes' does not provide any serious and concrete way forward for achieving certain globally shared objectives. thus, while one can only agree with administrative simplification, reduction of payment delays, or facilitation of access to credit, this report does not address the unfair competition that the union imposes in fact (the secondment directive, etc.), nor the increase in heterogeneity due to the single currency, nor the union's prohibition of the economic patriotism that is still necessary...
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on strengthening the competitiveness of smes. while this objective is essential, especially in the economic context we are in, i regret the presence in this text of a provision calling for greater integration for migrants. it is essential to distinguish between refugees, who enjoy a special legal status, and migrants who may be persons who have been denied the right to asylum and who continue to remain in our territory illegally. the latter are therefore not meant to be integrated, but to be expelled.
in writing. ‒ i share most of the ideas in this report, but it does not provide any serious ideas for achieving these wishes. this report does not address the root causes of the difficulties faced by smes:- unfair competition through social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by certain emerging countries or member states; - a single currency which deprives member states of the monetary lever to reduce the competitiveness gap with their trading partners; - the prohibition in the european treaties of economic patriotism (priority for national enterprises in the award of public contracts); - the tightening of credit conditions brought about by the basel iii agreements. cohesion policy is hardly able to mitigate the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by smes. i therefore prefer to abstain from voting on this text, which is unable to tackle the causes of the problems it raises.
in writing. ‒ strengthening the competitiveness of smes is a major thematic objective of the european cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. the thematic concentration has had the beneficial effect of better targeting investment priorities, and in this case in favour of european smes. i therefore voted in favour of this report which assesses the achievement of the objectives linked to this thematic objective in the framework of the financial programming 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the 23 million smes in the european union represent 99% of all enterprises and make a key contribution to economic growth and job creation. they provide more than 100 million jobs, or two thirds of private sector jobs. i voted in favour of this report, which provides an early assessment of the thematic objective of strengthening the competitiveness of smes. the european union must support smes and act to strengthen their competitiveness. they are real economic drivers for our economy.
in writing. ‒ there are more than 23 million smes in the european union, or 99% of the total number of enterprises. these smes generate 100 million jobs, or two thirds of private sector jobs. it is recalled that 14% of the available eu funds are allocated to smes, i.e. more than €140 billion for the 2014-2020 programming period. this cohesion policy is the best way of mitigating the adverse effects of european policies on employment and investment in smes. in no case will the massive injection of public money, especially through subsidies, provide a lasting solution to the difficulties faced by these smes. i have chosen to abstain because certain provisions of the report are appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report by my colleague mercedes bresso, which provides solutions to the common problems and challenges facing the alpine region.
in writing. ‒ this report lays the foundations for the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp). this is the fourth macro-regional strategy. eusalp covers 48 regions in seven different countries, including five member states. the aim of creating these macro-regions is to develop cross-border strategic approaches in regions that share the same problems, in this case depopulation, diversification of economic activity, spatial planning and environmental protection in the context of eusalp. we share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, creating competitiveness clusters, sources of innovation that generate sustainable jobs, developing new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, developing rail transport, especially for freight, to reduce congestion in cities. we are opposed to any macro-regional strategy whose governance model is based on increased participation of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. these future macro-regions will gradually escape the control of the member states, leaving the european commission free to grant itself new prerogatives, particularly in the fields of urban policy or education. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this report, which is a macro-regional strategy based on a multi-level governance model with increased participation of local authorities: it limits the scope of action of national governments to the benefit of the commission, which is given new prerogatives in urban and education policy.
in writing. ‒ although i often try to raise awareness of the impoverishment of mountain areas, particularly the problem of the desertification of public services in these areas, i had to vote against this report. the priorities set by the union for the alpine region (eusalp) are certainly also my own: preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, developing rail transport, and creating competitiveness clusters, sources of innovation and sustainable jobs. however, what is behind this strategy is the regionalisation of europe, the creation of macro-regions with a direct link to brussels, thus allowing the commission to hide the states and thus to appropriate more and more powers, to the detriment of the treaties. in short, the only purpose of this technique is to lead to a federal europe, where the regions would no longer be french but would be transformed into länder of the country europe, in the german manner.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights relevant issues common to the different alpine regions (48) in the 5 member states concerned. unfortunately, it tends to strengthen the direct link between local authorities and the union to the detriment of the states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report lays the foundations for the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp), which covers 48 regions in seven different countries, including five member states. the creation of these macro-regions aims at developing cross-border strategic approaches in regions that share the same problems. we certainly share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as environmental protection, the modernisation of water infrastructure, the development of new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, and the development of rail transport, particularly for freight, to reduce congestion in cities. we are, however, by definition opposed to any macro-regional strategy whose governance model is based on increased participation of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. these future macro-regions will gradually escape the control of the member states, leaving the european commission free to grant itself new prerogatives, particularly in the fields of urban policy or education. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the alpine region covers the territory of five member states of the european union: france, italy, austria, germany and slovenia. it is therefore essential to establish european cooperation in this field. for this reason, the european commission has published a communication on the establishment of a strategy for the alpine region. the aim of this action plan is to combat the depopulation of the region and particularly the departure of the young population. the report calls for more harmonisation of the structural and investment funds and their structuring within the strategy. this needs to be accompanied by increased communication and a support structure. the region needs to develop its potential for growth and innovation, which is likely to create jobs. tourism can be improved and become a considerable economic resource. there is also a need to improve connectivity, both in transport and digitally. these two elements will enable the region to develop more efficiently and more rapidly. finally, it is necessary to develop genuine structures for the preservation of the environment and biodiversity specific to the region. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the european parliament's position on the alpine macro-regional strategy (suera). published in july 2015, the strategy aims to better coordinate the distribution of european structural funds and national and regional funding between seven alpine countries, including five eu member states, and 48 regions, in order to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the alps. the mountain too often creates additional barriers to working together! with this new strategy, it will bring together alpine citizens to tackle several challenges, including transport interconnections and digital coverage, innovation and adaptation to climate change. this strategy must remain a tool for alpine towns and regions wishing to develop together concrete projects, a balanced territory and responding to the aspirations of the local population. i was particularly involved in this issue in the agriculture and environment committees, advocating the need to strengthen transnational cooperation on hydropower and the management of predatory species on livestock farms. i voted in favour of this roadmap, given its very high quality.
in writing. this report on the european union strategy for the alpine region makes proposals and recommendations in line with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth to address the specificities and challenges of these regions. i voted in favour of this text, which rightly emphasises the need to improve transport networks and connectivity in the alpine regions in order to promote tourism and growth, while respecting environmental imperatives in regions with rich biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ this report lays the foundations for the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp). leusalp covers 48 regions in seven different countries, including five member states. we support most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as: preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, creating competitiveness clusters, sources of innovation that generate sustainable jobs, developing new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, developing rail transport, especially for freight, to reduce congestion in cities. however, we are opposed to any macro-regional strategy which is contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: loss of control or influence by member states.
in writing. - i voted against this report. i have already had the opportunity here on many occasions to express my displeasure with the european macro-regions in general and the alpine macro-region in particular. there was already an alpine convention and even an alpine area, which was financed by the european union. this is a sign that this type of cooperation, including with non-eu countries, is possible without involving the commission. this is probably the crux of the problem: the commission is omnipresent and omnipotent, and cannot tolerate the fact that a single structure, a single initiative, which could be linked more or less to one of the too many powers which the treaty unfortunately confers on it, should escape its attention. the question is: what more does this bring, in practice, for the citizens of the area concerned? when, where and how did the commission prove that its off-the-shelf technocrats and its convoluted procedures were more effective than anything else?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the alpine macro-regional strategy (suera), which aims to better coordinate the distribution of european structural funds and national and regional funding to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the alpine massif. the strategy covers 7 countries, including 5 eu member states (austria, france, germany, italy and slovenia) and 2 non-eu states (liechtenstein and switzerland) as well as 48 regions. as i myself was elected in an alpine constituency, i am committed to the development of our region and i know its enormous potential. this strategy is a real instrument for the development of our territory in the service of the alpine citizens. i am thinking in particular of the creation of these regional research centres and specific training centres which aim to respect the characteristics of the alpine labour market, such as seasonality for example.
in writing. ‒ as a mountain person, i am pleased that europe is interested in the alpine region, highlighting and recognising its particularities. i hope that this recognition will be extended to other mountain ranges. the adoption of an eu strategy for the alpine region (suera) aims to better coordinate european, national and regional funds between countries, regions and cities that share a mountain range, river or sea basin. thanks to this initiative, we can avoid duplication and unnecessary investment and focus funding on essential needs, such as transport, digital or innovation. in addition, the strategy takes into account the specificity of the labour market in these territories and therefore offers specific training and a multilingual regional online employment centre to help frontier workers. of course, we will have to assess the effectiveness of this strategy in the medium and long term, but i believe that the union's actions in favour of mountain regions should be better communicated to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ we are sceptical of macro-regional strategies whose governance model is based on increased participation of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. these future macro-regions will gradually escape the control of the member states, not to the benefit of the local level, but leaving the european commission free to grant itself new prerogatives, particularly in the field of urban policy or education. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mercedes bresso, which sets out the european parliament's recommendations on the european strategy for the alpine region. the so-called 'macro-regional strategies' make it possible to coordinate the initiatives of cities and regions from different countries that share a mountain range, a river or a sea basin. they are a privileged instrument at the service of the territories to respond to certain common challenges that transcend national borders. in my view, this strategy will only succeed if the alpine territories take ownership of it and if it does not result in an additional layer of bureaucracy. i welcome the adoption of this report which makes proposals in this respect and emphasises the need to improve connectivity but also to protect the environment (especially glaciers) in the alpine region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which follows the council's call in december 2013 for the commission to propose an eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp). the commission therefore presented the 'strategy action plan' in july 2015. the report, which contains the recommendations of the european parliament, recommends that the european financial instruments available be used to the full. it emphasises the need to improve transport and energy connectivity and protect biodiversity in the alpine region. the epp group considered it important to defend the principle of the 'three no's': no to new legislation, no to new funding, no to new institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it limits the scope of action of national governments to the benefit of the european commission, which is given new prerogatives, particularly in the fields of urban policy and education.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'european union strategy for the alpine region'. i share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, such as preserving the environment, modernising water infrastructure, creating competitiveness clusters, developing new tourist offers to limit the seasonal aspect of alpine tourism, and developing rail transport. i am opposed to any macro-regional strategy whose governance model is based on increased participation of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. these future macro-regions will gradually escape the control of the member states, leaving the european commission free to grant itself new prerogatives, particularly in the fields of urban policy or education.
in writing. - i voted against the mercedes bresso report. text favourable to the macro-regional strategy, based on a multi-level governance model with increased participation of local authorities. it also aims, like many others, to limit the scope of action of national governments to the benefit of the commission, which is given new prerogatives in the fields of urban policy and education.
in writing. - i voted against this text. despite several proposals which we support (the preservation of the environment, the modernisation of water infrastructure, the creation of competitiveness clusters), this text is in favour of the macro-regional strategy which will deprive the member states of their decision-making powers.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, alpine regions from 5 eu member states, including france (with rhône-alpes-auvergne, paca and franche-comté) and 2 third countries decided to strengthen their institutional, economic, cultural, etc. cooperation. since the lisbon treaty, this intergovernmental cooperation has to be embedded in the commission's more comprehensive strategy of strengthening the 'macroregions'. it is actually a dilution of democracy, hidden behind pompous terms such as 'multi-level governance' and the creation of 'investment structures' to receive public funds and private funds in the service of the latter. the basic idea is to dismantle the democratic structure of the nation-state in favour of absurd regionalisms. in short, it is public money at the service of the private sector in a decision-making process that is increasingly remote from citizens. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ text favouring a macro-regional strategy based on a multi-level governance model with increased participation of local authorities. it also aims to limit the scope of action of national governments to the benefit of the commission, which is given new prerogatives in the fields of urban policy and education. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report lays the foundations for the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp). this is the fourth macro-regional strategy after the baltic sea region strategy, the danube region strategy and the adriatic and ionian region strategy. we share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp. we are, however, by definition opposed to any macro-regional strategy whose governance model is based on increased participation of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. these future macro-regions will gradually escape the control of the member states, leaving the european commission free to grant itself new prerogatives, particularly in the fields of urban policy or education. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report on the european union strategy for the alpine region is to lay the foundations for a macro-regional strategy based on a multi-level governance model with increased participation of local authorities, in order to limit the scope of action of national governments and bypass the state level. all this is for the benefit of the european commission, which is given new powers in the field of urban and regional planning. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. it was necessary to show the eu's determination to protect this region, which is a great asset for our continent, especially as regards tourism and science. i have in particular supported all the measures aimed at protecting the biodiversity which is fundamental in this european region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, despite some negative points on which i voted against. the resolution calls on the states to encourage the coordination of national and regional policies to implement the european union strategy for the alpine region. it is essential to respect the principle of subsidiarity, as the report makes clear.
in writing. ‒ i am of course opposed to any macro-regional strategy whose governance model is based on increased participation of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. these future macro-regions will gradually escape the control of the member states, leaving the european commission free to grant itself new prerogatives, particularly in the fields of urban policy or education. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the alpine macro-regional strategy (suera). the mountain can be a definite geographical handicap for the alpine territories. to overcome certain barriers, concrete achievements such as regional research clusters or specific training centres adapted to the labour markets of the alpine territories will be part of this european strategy. european macro-regions are frameworks for cooperation and the development of synergies between different eu financial instruments. seven european countries, including five member states, comprising 48 regions, will be able to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the alpine massif through this macro-regional strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to better articulate the distribution of european structural funds and national and regional funding between seven european countries, including five eu member states and 48 regions. the ultimate objective is to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the alpine massif. this report sets out the european parliament's recommendations on the strategy for the alpine region which was presented by the european commission in july 2015. the strategy is an instrument at the service of the territories to respond to common challenges that transcend national borders. there is a need to improve transport and energy connectivity and to protect biodiversity in the alpine region. innovation is one of the main challenges in the region. parliament called for the creation of regional research centres and training centres to meet the specific needs of the region. i supported this report which recalls the importance of interconnections between border member states that share the same challenges and opportunities. this strategy is a practical response to the need for cooperation between the different regions of the same geographical area.
in writing. ‒ this report lays the foundations for the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp). this is the fourth macro-regional strategy after the baltic sea region strategy, the danube region strategy and the adriatic and ionian region strategy. leusalp covers 48 regions in seven different countries, including five member states. these macro-regions aim to develop cross-border strategic approaches in regions that share the same problems, in this case depopulation, diversification of economic activity, spatial planning and environmental protection. we share most of the priorities advocated by eusalp, but we are opposed to any macro-regional strategy whose governance model is based on increased participation of local and regional authorities in decision-making bodies. these future macro-regions will gradually escape the control of the member states, leaving the european commission free to grant itself new prerogatives, particularly in the fields of urban policy or education. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ located in the heart of europe, with its 48 regions in 7 different states, its 80 million inhabitants, its outstanding biodiversity and water reserves, the alpine region is a key challenge for the european union. this report takes account of this particular reality and the precautions it requires, particularly in terms of environmental protection in the face of climate change and increasing cross-border trade. that's a good thing. we must remember this and not implement the dangerous lyon-turin high-speed rail project, which is incompatible with such protection. unfortunately, this text does not settle the question. it is also worth noting that the report raises concerns about the accessibility of public services in the least populated areas. it is a pity, however, that he is advocating public-private partnerships to remedy this.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the eu trust fund for africa. the aim of this fund would be to promote stability in these regions and to better manage migration. although this special fund aims to promote resilience, economic opportunities, security and development, while addressing the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration, this report is part of a blind funding logic, without checks on the proper use and management of funds. moreover, the text does not necessarily take into account the realities of life in the developing countries. the will to stop immigration in general still seems weak and the report is rather part of a policy of paying out millions of euros without expected results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu trust fund for africa. this fund is only one piece of the puzzle in the eu's response to the migration crisis. it must, however, be better controlled by parliament, since it is clear that there is a lack of transparency in its use. it is also essential that the governments finally keep their promises and contribute more to this fund.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the european union trust fund for africa, set up in 2015 by european and african partners, is to promote stability in these regions and to help better manage migration. the fund shall aim to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by ensuring the promotion of resilience, economic opportunities, security and development. despite its voluntarist aspects, this report is part of a blind funding logic, without any a posteriori or a priori checks on the proper use and management of funds, the eu preferring to offload on local authorities and a partnership with the private sector, in a hypothetical hope of transferring future burdens within the framework of development policy. the report sees population growth as an asset in developing areas, while youth employment and training policies are lagging far behind the development goals and the future is uncertain for the younger generations, who are more likely to desert their countries for a better life in the west than to build the future of the west. so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to promote stability in africa and to help better manage migration; considering, in particular, that the eu trust fund aims to tackle the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by ensuring that resilience, economic opportunities and equal opportunities, security and development are promoted.
in writing. ‒ as is often the case in the reports of the deve (development committee), there are some good ideas in this text, particularly insofar as development aid to these countries is supposed to stop the migration bleeding, but these good ideas are translated into proposals that are too little concrete in terms of monitoring of said aid and evaluating its results: i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the eu trust fund for africa. the initial aim of this fund, launched at the valletta summit in 2015, is genuine cooperation between member states and african countries to tackle the root causes of migration, with a view to resilience, economic development and security. i fully share this objective and have always been a strong supporter of it. unfortunately, the report is based on the logic of uncontrolled financial aid, without any management measures. worse, the european authorities plan to take the burden off local authorities in partnership with the private sector. morality, we are once again trying to water these countries with money without ensuring that it will be used to achieve the set objectives. an idea that started with good intentions and was again derailed by european inconsistency.
in writing. ‒ while i consider aid to developing countries, particularly in africa, to be essential, i regret that this report makes no provision for prior or retrospective control of the destination and use of these funds. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the trust fund for africa, launched at the valletta summit on 12 november 2015 and signed by 25 member states plus norway and switzerland, aims to foster political and economic stability in africa in order to reduce migration of local populations. despite the extremely laudable objectives, it must be admitted that this report is part of a blind funding logic. without any ex post control of the proper management of the funds, the european union prefers to shift the burden onto local authorities. there is therefore no guarantee that the local population will actually benefit from european funding. the european union should also start by no longer interfering in the internal affairs of african countries in order to ensure political stability. in libya, the support of the western states to the rebels with the support of the european union has been dramatic. the country, currently administered by local militias, is in the midst of severe internal unrest, resulting in the exodus to europe of several hundred thousand people, including islamic fundamentalists. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the european union trust fund for africa is to stabilise the region (the horn of africa, the sahel, the chad basin and north africa) and to manage migration. it was established following the valletta summit on migration in november 2015. this own-initiative report highlights the low contributions of the member states to the trust fund, which currently stands at €81.71 million, compared to €1.8 billion committed. civil society, local authorities and ngos need to play a greater role. they must be consulted and involved in the implementation and evaluation of the fund. improvements in transparency and consistency are also needed to properly achieve the objectives of the european union trust fund for africa. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report addresses the union's questions raised by the creation, implementation and monitoring of the trust fund in the area of financing. this trust fund was established to help the most affected african countries and improve stability in these regions. the main priorities of the trust fund are economic programmes, migration management, stability and governance. considering that cooperation with the african union calls for more transparency, accountability and political coherence in the implementation of projects, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported this text on the implications for development aid and humanitarian aid of the european union trust fund for africa, set up in november 2015 following the valletta summit on migration. through this trust fund for africa, we aim to address the root causes of the migration crisis by promoting the stabilisation and development of the african continent. we must nevertheless be particularly careful that development aid to particularly destabilised countries is not diverted. however, i consider it essential that through the disbursement of this trust fund for africa, the european union obtains commitments for the full implementation of readmission agreements in order to allow the effective return of irregular migrants to europe.
in writing. ‒ the european union trust fund for africa was launched at the valletta summit on migration on 12 november 2015. the fund aims to address the root causes of the destabilisation, forced displacement and migration of african populations. however, its implementation is not optimal and is not subject to any special control. it also considers population growth to be an asset, even as african states struggle to fully integrate their youth into the labour market. for all these reasons, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: because, although it is wrapped in good moral intentions, it does not take into account the realities of life of the inhabitants of the affected developing countries and is part of a policy of continuing to sprinkle millions of euros without expected results.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, although it is draped in good moral intentions, it does not take into account the realities of the lives of the people in the countries concerned and is part of a policy of continuing to sprinkle millions of euros without the desired results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr corrao on the eu trust fund for africa. the fund was established in 2015 to support countries in the horn of africa, the sahel, north africa and the chad basin. to this end, four priorities have been identified: migration management, government stability, resilience and economic support. it was recalled that this initiative had to meet the requirements of transparency and consistency. through this initiative, europe is laying the foundations for a genuine partnership between our two regions for the future. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu trust fund for africa. as a reminder, this trust fund was created in november 2015 following the valletta summit on migration. this report addresses the issues of financing, implementation and monitoring of the trust fund, which aims to help the most affected african countries, namely the horn of africa, the sahel and the chad basin, and north africa. the four priorities identified are economic programmes, resilience, migration management, stability and governance. it also called for greater transparency and consistency. it is important that the european union finally tackles the root causes of immigration of african origin and specifically targets the countries most in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it is a catalogue of good intentions without any concrete meaning, and is naïve about immigration.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report entitled 'eu trust funds for africa: implications for development aid and humanitarian aid'. despite its voluntarist aspects, this report is part of a blind funding logic, without any a posteriori or a priori checks on the proper use and management of funds, the eu preferring to offload on local authorities and a partnership with the private sector, in a hypothetical hope of transferring future burdens within the framework of development policy. the report sees population growth as an asset in developing areas, whereas youth employment and training policies are lagging far behind the development goals and the future is uncertain for younger generations, who are more likely to leave their countries to settle in europe.
in writing. ‒ as is often the case with this committee, the intentions are good (such as development aid to the countries of emigration to stop the migration bleed), but diluted in proposals that are too little concrete in terms of monitoring of this aid, evaluation of results and real political will to stop the migration influx. in order to both welcome the underlying concept of the report and to denounce the lack of practical implication induced by this text, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa (eutf), launched on 12 november 2015 at the eu-africa summit in valletta, aims to foster political stability in the different regions of the african continent and to contribute to better management of migration flows. more specifically, the eutf aims to address the root causes of forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, access to employment, equal opportunities, security and development. while the report welcomes the initiative, it stresses that the eutf, which is largely funded by the european development fund, cannot be used for security or border control purposes. the eutf should give priority to supporting access to education and employment, good governance and environmental projects. this is the driving idea which is perfectly reflected in the final text, and i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. we approve of the reasons why this aid is being released. the european union trust fund aims to tackle the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration. it is committed to promoting resilience, economic opportunities, security and development. but on the one hand, there is no control of this aid and, on the other hand, it is part of a blind financing logic, which we are fighting against.
in writing. ‒ a new form of european funds is becoming fashionable in brussels. to 'combat the root causes of irregular migration' from africa, states and the commission agreed on an urgent 'trust fund'. it will redirect the financing of eu instruments and state aid for development policy towards a board of directors which will be responsible for deciding on projects to be financed, ranging from the return of migrants to security and defence operations. in the most complete opacity, outside the community budgetary framework and therefore at the expense of development projects. parliament is obviously not a member of this council and can only point out these risks here, by requesting monitoring and impact reports. it called for an increase in development contributions within the community budget, over which it has a say, in order to focus more on the development of local economies and the fight against unemployment, which, along with crises, are the main drivers of displacement. i acknowledge this critical and supportive work, but i am totally opposed to this fund, which it endorses. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ as is often the case in this committee, good intentions (such as development aid to the countries of emigration to stop the migration bleeding), but mixed with too few concrete proposals in terms of monitoring of this aid, evaluation of results and real political will to stop the migration influx. therefore, i abstained on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the european union trust fund for africa is to promote stability in these regions and to help better manage migration. it aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by ensuring the promotion of resilience, economic opportunities, security and development. despite its voluntarist aspects, this report is part of a blind funding logic, without any a posteriori or a priori checks on the proper use and management of funds, the eu preferring to shift the burden onto local authorities and a partnership with the private sector. the report sees population growth as an asset in developing areas, while youth employment and training policies are lagging far behind the development goals and the future is uncertain for the younger generations, who are more likely to desert their countries for a better life in the west than to build the future of the west. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the eu trust fund for africa, which aims to foster stability in these regions, help to better manage migration, address the causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration, and ensure the promotion of economic opportunities, security and development. however, the lack of control over funding and evaluation of its results turns this idea into a vast and inefficient spraying system. that is why i abstained in the vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the financing and implementation of a migration trust fund set up in 2015. such a mechanism is essential because it gives priority to the development of africa. this is necessary to enable people to stay in their homes and to have a possible future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european union trust fund for africa as regards its implications for humanitarian development aid. the fund provides assistance in three african regions to manage migration, security and development issues. in this respect, it is based on three pillars: economic programmes, resilience, migration management and stability and governance.
in writing. ‒ the european union trust fund for africa was signed by the president of the european commission, 25 member states, norway and switzerland and launched at the valletta summit on migration on 12 november 2015. it is intended to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by ensuring the promotion of resilience, economic opportunities, security and development. despite its voluntarist aspects, this report is based on a blind funding logic, without any a posteriori or a priori checks. the eu prefers to shift the burden onto local authorities and partnership with the private sector, in the hypothetical hope of transferring the burden. the report sees population growth as an asset in developing areas, whereas youth employment and training policies are lagging far behind the development goals, and the future is uncertain for younger generations, who are inclined to leave their countries. i therefore prefer to abstain on this report, which, wrapped in good moral intentions, ignores reality and spends millions of euros without results.
in writing. ‒ the european union trust fund for africa was established in november 2015, following the valletta summit on migration, to provide support to african states most affected by irregular migration. four regions are particularly targeted: the horn of africa, the sahel, the lake chad basin and, more generally, north africa. i voted in favour of this report, which notes the difficulties involved in setting up this fund in terms of financing, implementation and control. through this text, we call for greater transparency and consistency, both in the preparation of programmes and in the implementation of projects. development effectiveness must be a priority, and all stakeholders (the eu, its member states and african states) must therefore fully assume their responsibilities to make this trust fund a useful tool in resolving this unprecedented migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the financing, implementation and control of the european union trust fund for africa. the fund was created at the valletta summit on migration in november 2015 and has a budget of €1.8 billion. the main objective of this fund is to promote stability in the region and to contribute to better managing migration. it also aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration, with a focus on promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. this report calls for transparency and clarity to better achieve the objectives. it is essential that the fund respects the principle of coherence and avoids any contradiction between development and security objectives, humanitarian and migration policies. in using this fund, the union and the member states should set as long-term objectives the consolidation of peace and the strengthening of governance in the beneficiary countries.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of the european union trust fund for africa is to promote stability in these regions and to help better manage migration. the european union trust fund aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by ensuring the promotion of resilience, economic opportunities, security and development. despite its voluntarist aspects, this report is part of a blind funding logic, without any a posteriori or a priori checks on the proper use and management of funds, the eu preferring to offload on local authorities and a partnership with the private sector, in a hypothetical hope of transferring future burdens within the framework of development policy. the report sees population growth as an asset in developing areas, whereas youth employment and training policies are lagging far behind the development goals, and the future is uncertain for the younger generations. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ it is time to assess our demographic and socioeconomic challenges and adopt a set of legislative and non-legislative texts to finally promote a work-life balance. by voting on this report, parliament sent a strong message to the commission, which is presenting its new proposal by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ the general idea of this text is to reconcile private and professional life as much as possible and to combat discrimination through legislative and non-legislative measures, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. in practical terms, it is a question of organising society and the world of work so that women can both participate in the labour market on an equal footing with men and that this same working environment allows them the freedom to procreate without hindrance. more broadly, the aim is to tackle persistent gender inequality, particularly in the field of employment. women's and families' freedom of choice is being short-circuited. finally, women are seen only as inferior equals to men, requiring more specific legislative attention. in addition, migrants, freedom of movement and the 2020 objectives are added to and oriented by this dossier. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that reconciling work, private and family life must be recognised as a fundamental right. work-life balance not only improves the well-being of individuals, but also benefits society as a whole, as people with a satisfactory work-life balance are more productive at work.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this text, which is an interference with the social organisation of the member states but also with families themselves. there are certainly some good ideas, but this is a text which claims to change our social models profoundly, without respecting the freedom of women and families in their life choices. finally, women are seen only as inferior equals to men, requiring more specific legislative attention. in addition, dangerous considerations on the freedom of movement of 'migrants' are added to give a better orientation to this clearly globalist text.
in writing. ‒ any policy that contributes to promoting genuine equality between men and women in working and private life within the union must be supported and the many paragraphs in this report that highlight the deplorable situation in this area in many member states make it clear that much remains to be done in this area. it is good that the rapporteurs denounce the gap which still exists between the pay of women and men for the same work. it is good that the rapporteurs warn us about the decline in the birth rate in europe and the demographic challenges that this brings. but let me express some reservations about the paragraphs where the rapporteurs attack the traditional family model. i also do not see why an austerity budgetary policy in times of economic crisis would by definition be detrimental to gender equality. let us avoid introducing ideological phraseology into a debate where reason and facts should be sufficient to change policy.
in writing. ‒ i could not support this text, which is a vehicle for introducing gender theory more and more into legislation. under the pretext of the difficulties faced by some women in starting a family and working at the same time, the report is in fact part of the 'fight against stereotypes' which in reality aims at a real gender indifference: men and women are interchangeable, simple economic data whose life choices should be shaped by well-thinking europeans! the priority would apparently be to 'ensure mutual recognition of official documents for the purpose of free movement'. for the europeanist ideologues, making women seconded workers will help them to reconcile their family life and their career... the text also contains all the inconsistencies of the so-called defenders of women's rights, since it is concerned about the decline in the birth rate but does not advocate the establishment of a real birth policy. finally, the 'individualisation of rights' and the abolition of a common tax return, far from empowering women, will only make them more vulnerable and destroy the family model.
in writing. ‒ this text advocates gender equality in the face of work. while women are indeed often discriminated against in the workplace because of their maternity, childcare and childcare responsibilities - discrimination which must be fought without wavering - it is still a utopia to blindly pursue the goal of strict equality between men and women. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to create conditions on the labour market that promote work-life balance by combating discrimination against women with children. although we share the view that the decline in birth rates is due to insufficient income or concerns about career development, we nevertheless consider that the commission should not interfere in the family choices and societal patterns of the member states. the aim of this report is to bring about a cultural and societal transition, notably through the european pillar of social rights. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ it is important to balance work and family life correctly and fairly in order to provide the child with the best possible start to his or her growth. this report highlights all sorts of problems related to the role of parents. we must ensure that both parents are equal in the education of their children. indeed, it is still often women who put their careers on hold to look after their children. parental leave allows both the mother and the father to take care of the child while the other parent is working. while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, we must ensure that equality between men and women in matters of parenting is respected within the european union. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the reconciliation of the working and private lives of european citizens. the rapporteur proposes new ways of modernising this balance and calls on the commission to present legislative and non-legislative initiatives as well as a proposal for a revised maternity leave directive and a directive on paternity leave. i think that the report is balanced and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. this non-legislative text on the creation of conditions in the labour market which promote reconciliation between work and family life calls on the european commission and the member states of the european union to take the necessary measures to ensure that working life is adapted to the constraints of personal and family life. i voted in favour of this text because no one should have to choose between a career and a family life. we therefore need to strengthen the legal frameworks in place to address gender inequality and ensure equal and equal access to the labour market for men and women. however, i regret that these non-binding texts too often contain provisions which i have rejected, which go beyond the powers of the european union and undermine the principle of subsidiarity in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to put in place legal and policy initiatives in the labour market to promote reconciliation between work and family life. i believe that this conciliation is fundamental and must be defended at european level. the text proposes concrete measures, such as income and equal professional opportunities, the importance of quality, affordable and accessible childcare services, and more flexible working conditions that would allow parents to be available for their children.
in writing. ‒ the general idea of this text is based on the desire to reconcile private and professional life as best as possible and to combat discrimination through legislative and non-legislative measures, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. it recommended that conciliation be made a fundamental right. similarly, gender equality should be a legal basis and the pay gap a violation of the fundamental principle of equal pay. in addition, the text seeks to reconcile the two objectives of encouraging births and the professionalization of women. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: text not in line with the objective.
in writing. ‒ who does not dream of being able to reconcile private and professional life, without one harming the other? it is wrongly assumed that the purpose of facilitating such conciliation is to promote the family and the birth rate. this report is in fact a response to a commission consultation aimed at increasing by all means the participation of women in the labour market - without caring any more about the opinion of those concerned - and underpinned by the desire for absolute equality between men and women, which sometimes leads to absurd measures. for example, there is parental leave in france, which is governed more or less by the principles you defend - the individualisation of rights - and which prevents new parents from organising themselves as they wish, under penalty of financial sanctions. it is true that much remains to be done to make the lives of those who work easier. we must therefore start by reviewing economic policies, fiscal austerity, unfair competition and the race to competitiveness, which require ever more availability of employees or 'uberalize' them. otherwise, the rights they are promised will be nothing but wind.
in writing. ‒ balancing work and family life is a fundamental right for socialists and democrats, who are campaigning for a european pillar of social rights. i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative report which puts forward concrete legislative proposals, such as the extension of parental leave to 6 months, a directive for a minimum of two weeks of fully paid paternity leave for fathers and a directive on leave for dependants which complements the provision of professional care and allows workers to care for dependants while offering the dependant adequate remuneration and social protection, or the introduction of care credits so that periods of absence from work to care for a dependant in an informal and unpaid way are counted as dependent periods of work for the establishment of their pension rights. finally, the own-initiative report reiterates the need for a 'child guarantee' enabling every child to have access to free healthcare, free schooling, free childcare, decent housing and adequate food, as part of an integrated european plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. ‒ the general idea of this text is to reconcile private and professional life as much as possible and to combat discrimination by means of legislative and non-legislative measures, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. in practical terms, it is a question of organising society and the world of work so that women can both participate in the labour market on an equal footing with men and that this same working environment allows them the freedom to procreate without hindrance. more broadly, the aim is to tackle persistent gender inequality, particularly in the field of employment. it is therefore primarily a negation of the social functions of sex in favour of undifferentiated human beings. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, tatjana zdanoka, on the establishment of conditions on the labour market which favour work-life balance. this initiative seeks to promote gender equality in the labour market by modernising and adapting the european legal framework. today, this fight is not over and my vote is also a way of calling on the european commission to step up its work in this area. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ždanoka-blinkevičiutė report on the establishment of conditions in the labour market which favour work-life balance. this report follows the european commission's commitments to implement a number of initiatives in this area by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the eu is interfering in the social organisation of the member states and in family relations themselves, in particular by wanting to reform parental leave.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report calls on the commission to fulfil its commitments to create conditions that promote reconciliation between work and family life. too often women are disadvantaged because of the disproportionate burden of domestic work. creating the conditions for reconciling work and family responsibilities will help to solve many of the inequalities women face in the labour market. i voted in favour of this report which recommends appropriate measures to reconcile family and working life. it proposes, in particular, to ensure equal income and employment opportunities for women and men. the text also stresses the need for quality, affordable and accessible childcare services. in addition, the report highlights the need for some flexibility in working conditions for men and women who must be available to raise their children.
in writing. ‒ interference is a keyword in the european union. in this case, the report interferes with the social organization of the member states, and even with families. this is simply unacceptable. more generally, and despite some interesting ideas, this text seems to want to upset our models of society and work. it thus attacks women and their freedom, making them "equal" to men and subject to the dictates of the law. the icing on the cake, freedom of movement, migrants and the confusing goals 2020 are all intertwined in this issue. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this text. although it sets out several areas which we support (equality of pay, freedom to procreate, combating discrimination, etc.), several points are objectionable. this text proposes a cultural and societal transition that will fit perfectly into the elaboration of the future european pillar of social rights, with a challenge to the models of the couple (as an entity), paid work and the sex differentiation that exists. the main reasons for the decline in the birth rate are economic: lack of sufficient income and fear of losing one's job (abusive maternity-related dismissal). the text is thus torn between two seemingly irreconcilable objectives: to integrate women into the labour market and to encourage them to give birth.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report argues that work-life balance not only improves the well-being of individuals, but also benefits society as a whole, as people with a satisfactory work-life balance are more productive at work. in this field, as in many others, there are many inequalities between men and women, in particular because women are more likely to take care of dependent persons (children and/or dependent parents). the aim of this report is not only to promote gender equality in employment and other areas of life, but also to give children the opportunity to realise their full potential by providing them with quality education from an early age, as well as access to leisure, cultural and sporting activities. the report proposes action through the extension of maternity leave, the revision of paternity leave and the promotion of the directive on leave for dependants. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the interference in the social organisation of the member states but also within families which this text promotes makes it unacceptable. in general, some good ideas but a text that fundamentally changes our models of society and work. women's freedom of choice is then curtailed, making women an 'inferior' equal to men, subject to the legislative requirement. in addition, freedom of movement, migrants and the 2020 objectives are added to and oriented by this dossier. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the text is motivated by the desire to reconcile private and professional life as much as possible and to combat discrimination through legislative and non-legislative measures. however, considering that these matters fall within the exclusive competence of the member states, and that this is therefore an interference in the organisation of the member states, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the establishment of conditions on the labour market which favour work-life balance. by asking the commission to put in place policies to support migrants, this text is once again a call for illegal immigration, which i am consistently opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the establishment of conditions on the labour market which favour work-life balance. although it has several unsatisfactory elements, i welcome the progress that can be made today in this area, such as the harmonisation of maternity leave at european level, the non-transferability of parental leave which could jeopardise the return of mothers to employment and the labour market, or additional protection for vulnerable women. the crisis has irreparably affected women since 2008, it is important that the european union is concerned and legislates to improve and propose conditions of entry and return to the labour market for women and men with children or dependants.
in writing. ‒ this report interferes with the social and family policies of the member states and with the privacy of citizens. the intention is not necessarily bad, as it is to help individuals, especially women, to manage their career and personal life better. but it includes issues that have nothing to do with it (migrants, freedom of movement, 2020 goals) and does not respect the freedom of choice of people. in these circumstances, i prefer to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which insists on the creation of conditions in the labour market which favour a balance between work and private life. the necessary issues of equal pay between men and women, or the importance of the performance of social protection systems, are addressed. this text is part of the commitments announced by the european commission to implement various initiatives in this area by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the creation of conditions in the labour market which favour reconciliation between work and private life. the report stresses that the reconciliation of professional, private and family life must be guaranteed as a right with measures applicable to all. this text calls for the establishment of a system for obtaining reliable, comparable and comprehensive data on equality in order to improve understanding of the lack of reconciliation between private and professional life. there is no denying that a better work-life balance and enhanced gender equality are essential to supporting women's participation in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this text is an interference in the social organisation of the member states and even in the life of families. some good ideas are developed, but the text changes too profoundly the social and working models. women's and families' freedom of choice is being short-circuited. finally, women are seen as an inferior equal to men, requiring special legislative attention. in addition, the issues of the reception of migrants and freedom of movement are being added to the file. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution takes stock of the conditions for a better reconciliation of work and private life. the situation is appalling and austerity policies are only making things worse (that is what the text says). some significant examples: 11% difference in employment rate; 47 hours of paid work for men and 34 for women, but reversed when unpaid work is added; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the report calls for reconciling work, private and family life to become a fundamental right in order to meet the challenges of demographic and societal change in europe and stresses in particular the fight against gender stereotypes affecting both men and women. the commission also proposes to increase the necessary investment in childcare, childcare, education and care services for children and dependent persons and to launch an integrated european plan to combat child poverty, a consequence of parental poverty. may this text make it possible to commit at least some of the changes it proposes...
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are now being thrown into a dilemma by the geopolitical turn of events in turkey. most of you were ardent supporters of turkey's entry into the union. you dreamed of a turkey that never existed, you are facing the reality of turkey. the reality is mr erdogan, the man of thousands of political purges, the man of eliminations without trial, the man of the kurds under the bombs, of support for daesh. we must speak to turkey frankly and firmly. this is what russia has understood with its stabilizing action in the middle east. to do that, the accession negotiations must be stopped, otherwise your parliament will legitimize false hopes and give its support to the satrap erdogan. stop negotiating with your billions of euros for turkey's membership.
for the vp/hr. mr president! i would also like to thank the high representative for this debate. it has shown that it is very important to keep in touch with turkey. i think it's also important that we understand that this country as a collective is still in shock. this country has seen several military coups in the recent past; this time it was a failure, thank god, which also signals a certain development. i think we in europe were also shocked, and perhaps we are still shocked, that in our immediate neighbourhood something like this is still possible in the 21st century and that a candidate country to the european union can find itself in such a situation. all of us who have had the opportunity to be there recently after the coup, i think, can see that the turks themselves - let alone us here in europe - have not really appreciated the extent of the infiltration of the state and substantial parts of the state by the gülen movement. it is clear that this will have consequences in the course of the work, but - and you have expressed this in almost all your statements - this must be done in accordance with the highest principles of the rule of law, which we have committed ourselves to and which are also part of our identity, especially for a country which is a candidate country with a view to possible membership of the european union. it may be a challenge for some in turkey to set this standard, but we are setting it because turkey is a candidate country and that is acceptable to turkey. i think it is also important to note that for all the criticism of the government that one can have, turkey is a country of 80 million people, it is also very heterogeneous and does not consist of president erdoğan, and that therefore, in a way, any reflection cannot be exclusively related to the fact that he is now president there, but one must keep an eye on the overall development of the country. as for our current task - and this was also made clear in our joint mission on friday last week - we must ensure that this country is stabilised again in the interests of us europeans. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. that means restoring the rule of law, restoring economic stability. they have all gone down, tourism has plummeted, turkish airlines has, i believe, run a deficit for the first time in its history. these are factors that must also be taken into account, and therefore it is also important that we help turkey to deal with the refugee problem in its own country. it has already been said that we are at the beginning of getting into a kind of cruising speed with this aid, because we also have an obligation to use the money in such a way that you, as representatives of the european taxpayers, have a kind of guarantee that the money is used correctly, for school attendance, for health care, for nutrition, but also for adult language training and the provision of micro-credits, but also for supporting particularly affected communities and cities in the infrastructure sector, which, like kilis, have seen a 50 per cent increase in population. but when we talk about stabilization, we are also talking about political stabilization, and that includes resolving the kurdish conflict on a political rather than a military level, and that also includes a strong political commitment by turkey, above all in syria, because there too we need a political solution. but i also say -- and this has been raised by some of you -- stabilization also means that we address the tensions that we see in some countries in europe within the european union between members of the turkish minority and the rest of society, or tensions between different groups of the turkish minority in a country, that we deal with that and that we also contribute to the fact that things don't escalate here. it is not just the european union that is needed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are all here to disarm; language can sometimes be more hurtful than weapons, and it can often be a very deadly weapon. we must be aware of this. it is at this stage that megaphone politics or megafund diplomacy may not be the right approach. the high representative, i believe, said at the press conference that we must talk to the representatives in a robust manner, but not about them in public, and we can expect the same from the turkish representatives. we can then take an important step towards stabilising the situation; the rest is left to the future.
in writing. since the abortive coup of 15 july, a widespread repression has been launched in turkey: 35 000 people have been arrested, media censored: 45 newspapers, 16 television channels and 23 radio stations have been closed. in order to be able to intern all these political prisoners, the turkish minister of justice announced the release of 38 000 prisoners, including many ordinary prisoners. turkish president announced the reinstatement of the death penalty retroactively ! we must open our eyes to the reality of the situation in turkey: the recent resignation of the head of the european delegation in turkey, because of the failure to respect the human rights aspect of the migration agreement, is yet another illustration of this. finally, such integration would be a major addition to geopolitical problems, projecting the eu's borders towards countries as unstable as syria and iraq. the european leaders must show lucidity, responsibility and honesty towards turkey and its people by stopping the country's eu integration process now.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while it is quite normal that pan-african and regional organisations should be at the forefront of gabon, the european union cannot remain where it is. we can tell the mesh size of a fishing net and enforce it in africa and we would not be able to tell what an honest election is? and finally, in order to appease, would we put cheaters and cheated and cheated on the same level? in the same way, would we put everyone on the same level, calling for peace, when the violence is the exclusive act of the government in power against the supporters of mr jean ping? we must demand that these acts of violence stop immediately, by naming them. what i mean is that the counting, the new counting of the ballots cannot simply be referred to the constitutional court, which has already been proven to be biased and malicious. it must be an international organization, and the european union has the power to ask the un or the oau to ensure that it is. my dear colleagues, mr gbagbo was only sent to the icc when he asked for a recount, and we would let mr bongo refuse us by using violence without saying anything? it would be better if mr gbagbo were released and mr bongo were brought to justice.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the political situation in gabon is very worrying, with each candidate remaining firm in his position at the risk of the situation escalating into civil war. we must stop the escalation of violence at all costs. i had mr jean ping here in brussels, who was already worried about this at the time. i took the initiative of sending an official letter to ali bongo, asking for a european union observation mission. i am delighted that it was chaired by our colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, who has experience in this field in the democratic republic of congo. but between the lack of electoral lists posted in front of polling stations, the failures in the control of indelible ink, the authentication of ballots and the use of ballot boxes without identification numbers, there is much to complain about the conduct of the elections. we must therefore support the work of this observation mission and its calls for transparency and, more specifically, the need to publish the results of each polling station, as you have indicated. jean ping's referral to the constitutional court for a recount of votes could be a door to the crisis, but it also risks exacerbating the situation since his judgment will be the last possible recourse. and since gabon's politics are a family affair, there is a fear that the ruling will be challenged for the simple reason that the president of the constitutional council is none other than the former partner of ali bongo's father. and that is a problem. today we must at all costs avoid a repetition of the ivorian precedent, where the international community had given itself the right to intervene. gabon and the gabonese are the ones who have to decide their own destiny. we must ensure that they are supported in this respect. i hope above all that all the member states of the european union and the african union, as you have stressed, will mobilise, and that france should not be the one to interfere in gabonese political life, because france-africa has lasted long enough. it is therefore our responsibility to ensure that this is monitored.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the arbitrary declaration of victory by each of the candidates follows the arbitrariness of elections and constitutional amendments in other neighbouring countries. behind these maneuvers, politicians and big groups protect their interests, but the populations drink systematically. violence is unacceptable and the presence of european observers has not changed anything. i am rather surprised, madam mogherini, that the same outbreaks of violence that took place yesterday in the congo have not provoked the same reactions from the european union and from france and other countries. no one here can deny that the presidential elections were rigged. each side has sought to impose itself by fraud at the expense of the sovereign will of the gabonese people. these failures to respect the basic rules of democracy illustrate the need for a new momentum in gabon, as in the whole of central africa, but this momentum does not consist in choosing the candidate in place of the gabonese or in attempting to destabilise the country to the benefit of foreign or unacceptable commercial interests. beware of the danger of civil war! the precedent of rwanda should lead us to great caution. the future of gabon belongs to gabonese and gabonese alone. in gabon as in congo, the release of political prisoners is a prerequisite, and respect for the opposition a guarantee. i would urge the europeans to be attentive to the political maneuvers under way, so that the fire that is brewing does not turn into a blaze. the stability of europe is closely linked to the stability of the african continent.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to say that, for once, i think we are all very much united, first of all in understanding and supporting the role that we have. sometimes we forget it. sometimes we focus on our own limits or divisions – and, for sure, we have both limits and divisions – but when we look at the work the european union does from the outside, with the eyes of the citizens of gabon who were welcoming our mission, we recognise how relevant our work is, how important our values are, how powerful our instruments are, and how much expectation as well as how much change we can bring to peoples’ and countries’ lives. maybe it is also useful to remind ourselves about this when we debate our own internal affairs back home. i would like to sum up, so it is not really a reply, it is more a sharing, i think – thanking very much first of all mariya gabriel for her work, all the colleagues here who expressed common views on the situation, and also the european parliament as a whole for its important role. i have to admit that sometimes we forget how important our eu missions are on the ground. this is really a key part of our common work that i appreciate very much. on the situation, i have seen that our analysis coincides. these coming days, i agree, are crucial, especially in relation to the process ongoing at the constitutional court. we will look at what is happening and follow and monitor the situation in these critical hours and days extremely carefully, and i know that you will do the same. i believe that this will have an impact: it will be important for the people of gabon to know that this house is following developments with such attention and that we are committed to continuing to follow this in a very careful way. we all share a common interests in finding a rapid, peaceful and just solution to this post-electoral crisis, as all of you mentioned, and we will ensure continued full support for our mission still on the ground. thank you also for reminding us that we still have staff on the ground who need to continue their work in proper conditions, and we need to guarantee that – not only but especially – on the ground. so we will keep monitoring the situation in every dimension and i am sure you will do so too. it is going to be very important that we keep each other in line and updated and continue to exchange, as we have done all over these difficult weeks in a very good way. let me express once again our full appreciation for parliament’s role in this respect, your leadership and capacity to lead a difficult mission. also, a last point: some of you mentioned the role that is, or should be, there for the african union. i have said, and i will reiterate, that there is plenty of scope for the african union to play a leading role in africa. it is not an easy one but it is an important one, and our role there is to support the african union in this respect, and also to support the african union and the african union countries in the difficult task of upholding the principles that they have set for themselves. sometimes, as we know well, it is a challenging exercise, but i am sure that the african union and its member states have the means to live up to the expectations of their own people.
vpc/hr. – madam president, first of all, thank you for this debate. i know that you are always surprised to have a ‘thank you for this debate’, but i really think that it is important that we have issues on the agenda regularly and i have always noticed that the european parliament has kept a constant focus on migration. i am sure you will remember this very well: just two years ago, migration was very low on our common european agenda, both here in europe and globally, and this year it will be one of, or maybe the, central issue of the un general assembly. so let me say, maybe it’s stating the obvious today, but looking backwards, it was not obvious at that time. there is a new global awareness and an understanding that migration can only be dealt with as a global issue. it is not an issue for one country or another, it is a global issue that needs a global response. and this is happening, this new global awareness, also because there is a new european awareness. we came a bit late, but we got there. so for sure this is linked to the magnitude of the phenomenon that touched the european continent, but i would say that finally we woke up to the ‘new normal’ of global migratory trends and in the last months i believe we have shaped an adequate external policy to manage this complex phenomenon on a global level. so our approach is feeding into the global approach in the last months in quite a significant way. our work in the european union, especially on our external site, is becoming in these months, in these weeks, a point of reference for the global community. and again if i look back and think that when i took office less than two years ago migration was not even an issue or a topic for the foreign affairs council, we have come quite a long way. today, we have some – some – elements of our policy that are points of reference for the global response, to the need to manage together the migratory flows. operation sophia has been repeatedly endorsed by the united nations security council resolutions. the same concept of migration compacts or migration partnerships that we have started last june is reflected in and will be central to our discussions next week in new york in the general assembly ministerial week. the declaration for refugees and migrants that we will adopt in new york is consistent with many of the actions we are currently putting in place – currently and finally i would say, putting in place. the declaration sets out an immediate comprehensive refugee response framework, which should lead to a global compact for refugees. this parallel of global compacts with our compacts, our partnerships, i believe are the result of european thinking that was somehow contaminated by, and contaminated itself, the global thinking in quite a relevant way. in parallel it outlines the process towards a truly global management of migrations with a future compact for safe, regular and orderly migration. so the logic is to look beyond the current ‘refugee crisis’ as we have called it in the last year, realising that this is not only something that is happening here and now in our region, but is, as i said, the new normal of global trends. we have to look beyond this crisis approach. we even need to look beyond the other refugee crises happening in other parts of the world, with countries such as ethiopia or kenya hosting huge numbers of displaced people. migration will stay with us, and this is i know something that some of you in this room, and some of our citizens, do not like to hear, but this is a simple reality of today’s world. in a world of 7 billion people with rising inequalities, with dramatically diverse demographic trends, migration is the new normal; and if properly managed, let me remind you of something that is also some of you might not like to hear, and some of our citizens might not like to hear, but if properly managed it can bring about great opportunities for those who leave, for those who stay and for those who welcome. and we need to face also with a certain realism our own european demographic trends and realise that we need and we will continue to need migration. so it is not something we need to stop, it is something we need to manage, and manage properly in an orderly way, in a way that is respectful of human rights and can become mutually beneficial. so this is not simply about how we manage our frontiers. this is something that touches on many different other aspects, much more in-depth. we need investments, first of all, and both on refugees and on the wider issue of migration our union is finally investing new resources in innovative ways – and i will come to that in a moment. but i want to be very clear. i started with things i am proud of, the things that we are bringing to the global stage, our concept of partnerships, of compacts, or investment. in our response to the refugee crisis and the migratory phenomenon there is also a lot i am really not proud of, and i will be also clear about that. i am not proud of the hate campaign we have seen around europe, i am not proud of the walls. i am not proud of discriminations based on race or religion. and we have to be clear also on that if we want to be credible on the global scene. i believe many were caught by surprise when the refugee crisis arrived in europe to such an extent. i understand that many are scared. but we have also shown that we can manage both the emergency and the long-term challenge. so to go back to the things i’m proud of, because i believe that in these times we need a bit to focus also on what we’re good at: i’m proud of the unity we have shown in creating and running together operation sophia. i’m proud of the lives we’ve saved. i’m proud that we’ve mobilised incredible resources, especially to build schools and hospitals but especially on education for refugees. i’m proud that we’re finding innovative tools, from debit cards to the migration compacts, to help millions of refugees in turkey, jordan and lebanon. and the same goes for our long-term approach. this is something i’m finally proud of. the world is changing fast and we couldn’t just stick to the old way of doing things. so we’ve started to change the way of doing our things. i know that most of the debate around this has been focused, in our member states in particular, on the issue of returns and readmissions, and that is indeed part of our policies. but readmission, obviously, is important to move towards a better system for human mobility, to make it sustainable, providing better channels for legal migration, and discouraging or preventing dangerous travels through the desert or at sea. i remember we had a very heated exchange here in this chamber a couple of months ago about this, and i always recall that i witnessed myself first-hand the great work we do in countries like ethiopia for the reintegration of women who were reduced to slavery after they fled their home country. so this is something we always have to keep in mind, and something i’m proud of. but as i said, readmissions are only one part of our approach, and i would say maybe not the fundamental one. because if anyone believes that we can solve the issue of migration by sending everyone back, that person needs a reality check and would be proven to be wrong. we need to work hard within the countries of origin and to look beyond the short term. as i said, readmissions and returns are an important part of our policy, but it is only one part. we need to look at the causes of the huge migratory movements we’re facing in the world, and we need to tackle them where they are. this is the reason why we are investing in a new approach based on partnership. as i see our african friends are now truly willing to engage with us and to take responsibility, with a new true commitment to a common shared approach to manage migration properly and together, we’re opening somehow a new chapter, i think, based on partnership. and this is not happening without a reason. there is this global awareness shaping up between those who understand that migration is there to stay and has to be managed together. and this is the new global context we are living in. this new global context also requires from our side creativity, respect and the ability to bring about new instruments. public resources alone will never be sufficient, in an era of harder financial constraints even more so, but our funds can help mobilise private investors and international institutions towards shared strategic goals, and this is the core idea behind our new external investment plan which we have just established today. european firms are already employing hundreds of thousands of people, in africa but also in our neighbouring countries, generating wealth both in those continents, in those countries, and here at home. but to expand business or to move into a new country, often a very difficult one, they need security and protection from risks, be it financial, legal or due to instability. so we can provide them with a guarantee, and this is what the new investment plan will do. we are getting to establish new tools for dealing with an unprecedented challenge, we are changing our mind-sets, and this is quite difficult to do but finally i believe we might get there. we’re building new partnerships beyond the traditional fault lines, beyond a donor-recipient mentality, beyond the traditional divide between public and private, and even beyond the north and south divide, because we are together in this, so that’s why the partnership approach is so crucial. ultimately we are calling for a global partnership to deal with migration, and the un summit will be an important step in this direction. this can be the beginning of a new path, also for the un approach to migration and refugees. but for the first time in history, 193 countries will gather together and commit to a common approach to migration. and this is already a major achievement, determined also, i would say mainly through the contribution of the european union. now we will need to ensure that intentions are turned into actions, and that our european union process feeds into a global engagement to shape up the world’s migration system. we do count also on parliament to make this a reality, and to continue engaging with us on the follow-up to the un summit in new york. it is an opportunity, it is an opportunity that europeans cannot miss, and europe can and must lead the process, also following up the un summit in new york towards a global partnership on migration. but let me stress here again, we can play this key role on the international, global level on creating this new global compact for migration, first if we are consistent internally, second if we are united in this approach. and here comes also the role of parliament. i believe that no matter if you come from the right or the left, from portugal or finland, or from the far east or the far west of the european union, we all share an interest to make migration managed, properly managed and sustainable, and to invest in our neighbours’ development, and when i say neighbours i include the whole continent of africa which is our neighbour. so i really count on your support. but more than that, let me say, i count on your work. and i especially look forward to reading your report to move towards a system for human mobility that is fit for the 21st century. (applause)
for the gue/ngl group madam president, this un summit is indeed a summit of hope. for months, the un and its various agencies have been warning about the plight of migrants, and the least we can say is that the world's wealthiest nations are not doing enough. the number of refugees, and even more displaced persons, is reaching unprecedented numbers. among them, an unbearable number of children. fifty million, according to unicef, have fled war, internal conflict, poverty, climate change and, more broadly, environmental disasters, as the human hand is often behind a number of natural disasters. member states are responding with ever more requests for border controls and hunting down so-called economic migrants as the border between refugees and migrants is becoming increasingly difficult to establish and legal migration to the european union is decreasing. last year, one million people, more than a third of them children, crossed the mediterranean, 0.2% of the european population compared to 20% in lebanon, for example. madam high representative, even the relocation mechanism is not working, with less than 5 000 people being taken in in one year, out of the 160 000 announced. at this rate, it will take more than 30 years to reach the two-year target - which is far from being met - and by the end of the year there will be more deaths in the mediterranean than last year. i do not have time to talk about the consequences of the mobilisation of all the union's external policies, the economic partnership agreements, the european development fund used for the outsourcing of border management, including with the worst dictatorships, particularly in the horn of africa. one example: 50 sudanese who were recently returned from italy directly to sudan. the un calls for accountability and solidarity. the european union must ensure that its member states adopt measures which are truly in line with global needs, particularly in africa where, i would remind you, 85% of migration is intra-african.
madam president, madam high representative, i listened with interest to your remarks on this point. i am personally very pleased that a summit like this is taking place, which is supposed to address the causes of migration and not just the consequences and follow-up measures. here, on the floor of the european parliament, we are basically just debating how to deal with the consequences of the waves of migration, and that is simply not enough, because with the consequential measures we will never solve migration, nor will we reduce its flows. i believe that the key is to work with the countries where migrants primarily come from. it will be necessary to have targeted investments in these countries, to help the people in the countries so that they don't have to have large waves of migration. it will be very difficult to find a specific form, especially if we look at, for example, this morning's meeting, there was a debate on the trust fund for africa, where there is simply no money. so finding concrete solutions to help the countries where people are migrating from, that should be the focus of your summit, i think.
madam president, madam high representative, this summit is a first of its kind, but it must not be a dead letter. the key question for this is whether we can make a real difference in the face of migration challenges so that this approach, for the first time in the world, can change leaders, change behaviour, as you mentioned in your opening remarks. many world leaders will be there, and at the same time, most of them have been refusing to take in syrian refugees for months, especially in europe. they refuse to participate in relocation and resettlement. as a reminder, in 2015, 8,500 people were resettled in europe. we must make this summit, madam high representative, the important step, the step you mentioned, of this comprehensive approach and not turn it into a ball of hypocrites, because we need a clear message, concrete answers, to avoid it looking like a masquerade. there are many of us in new york counting on you.
madam president, madam high representative, this un summit is a unique opportunity to establish a more solidary system at international level, which we greatly need because the crisis we are experiencing is not a refugee crisis but a crisis of the reception of refugees. with less than ten countries hosting half of all refugees, there is an urgent need for states to commit themselves to a better sharing of responsibility. i hope that the european union will take an ambitious and united position with concrete targets and measures. otherwise, we know, unfortunately, that governments will turn their backs on their good promises far too quickly. the summit should also be an opportunity to affirm that development aid should not be conditional on border management objectives. development aid is aimed at fighting poverty and inequality, not at tightening border controls to prevent people from leaving the country. i hope that the countries of the european union will be able to rise to the challenges of this summit.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have to tell the truth to the united nations about illegal economic immigration. we must abandon this iron-fisted view of immigration at the expense of the law, the rights of our people, but also the people of the sending countries, who are losing their economic vitality. we must abandon this collusion between illegal immigration and the profit-maximizing economy that exploits the illegal. we must abandon indirect support for the networks of mafias and criminal groups and submission to the satrap erdoğan, among others. will these facts be heard? i don't know, because we have a vision of a world of mobility, a world of generalization, where countries are no longer just hotels in an open world, but that hotel becomes a transit world for traffickers and criminals.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, first of all i would like to thank our colleague, mr fabio castaldo, for the quality of his work and his desire to reach an agreement that is as consensual as possible. tunisia is worth it, the tunisian people deserve it. yes, tunisia has a special place. in 2011, many peoples watched what was happening there. tunisia has raised many hopes and the success of its democratic transition is more than ever a key issue, far beyond the maghreb. much progress has been made, in particular through the mobilisation capacity of its civil society. we have seen this in the constitution. much remains to be done and concerns remain, particularly about young graduates and regional disparities. but also on the issue of human rights, especially women's rights, on the issue of marriage, the issue of inheritance rights, lgbt rights, freedom of expression, torture, police violence, transitional justice, but also the death penalty. we owe the tunisian people real solidarity, we cannot be satisfied with aid conditional on structural reforms, geared to european interests, which aggravate the debt of tunisia. the assembly of people's representatives is hearing a bill signed by almost all political groups in tunisia, calling for an audit of the tunisian debt. i welcome this and hope that many of us will support them. tunisia needs a real partnership, not just economic. a partnership which respects its interests, which respects the interests of its people and in particular of its young people, to whom we must open the doors in the framework of a genuine agreement on mobility.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr castaldo on the quality of his report. he is making a diagnosis which must lead to concrete measures by the european union, with the aim, as my colleague mr gabriel has just said, of fighting terrorism for the security of tunisia. there are more than 500 kilometres of porous common borders with libya, so it is obvious that there is a security issue that we europeans must develop in close partnership with tunisia. finally, of course, we must ensure that we have an economic, agricultural and tourism-related partnership. the fall of the main tourist activity in tunisia is deadly, and therefore, the fight against terrorism, for democracy, for development, is a struggle of tunisia, but it is also the struggle of europeans.
the rapporteur. madam president, we hear it all the time: europe is in crisis and we know that one of the reasons for this crisis is that we have a single market, freedom of services, capital, people who can move, but we have completely different social systems and we know that social dumping is taking place. for a long time it was not possible to define what social dumping was and we have now come to an agreement that there was a set of illegal and abusive practices which led to a profound undermining of the dignity of workers. dignity when you are housed in a humiliating way, when you are not paid for the work you have done, when you work all day or all week and when you do not respect rest periods. but it is also a financial and budgetary problem, because social dumping is draining resources from our social protection systems and is making them poorer by the day. finally, it is an economic problem, because it tends to weaken labour income, as we know, and obviously to push towards a deflationary tendency. i would add that this is a huge political problem and that european citizens, who consider that europe does not protect them but, on the contrary, weakens them by accepting these social dumping practices, are increasingly sceptical or even turn against europe by deciding that we must vote for parties which today want to destroy it, that many states today are beginning to say that we must question the internal market and question the existing directives, sometimes even unilaterally. how do you answer that? of course, this report is just a stone, but it is a stone that is still necessary and important. firstly, by applying existing legislation. to do this, we must increase the means of control, we must ensure that there is cooperation at european level to enable labour inspectors to work together, to have the means of translation. it is important to establish genuine crossborder cooperation which makes it possible to combat drifting enterprises today. the existing legislation must also be improved, and that is why a number of measures are needed, for example to combat the famous letterbox companies which do not exist, or which exist at one time and disappear immediately afterwards. these companies must have a real business to be able to employ people today, to send them off to another country, for example. we need a road transport agency and this is very important, because how can we fight social dumping in the road sector today if there are no instruments at european level to do so? a blacklist is needed so that companies which have seriously failed, which have seriously infringed european and national legislation, cannot now claim contracts which would be dangerous to award to them. finally, we must record, for example, the declarations of secondment in a european register, if only so that we can know exactly who is being seconded and when. finally, we must work towards social convergence. there are specific measures to be taken, for example at european level, on the situation of women, who are often the first victims of fraudulent secondment or even of abusive exploitation. we must also work on the question of wages and, while we know that a single minimum wage is impossible today in europe and even undesirable, a national minimum wage of about 60% of the average wage would obviously be a very important step forward. i want to end by saying something to you. these discussions lasted thirty hours. they have made it possible to overcome the divisions, to bring together the forces of progress to work together, but also the political divisions within this house. they have also helped to bridge the geographical gaps between north, south, east and west. it is now necessary to ensure that the european parliament supports this proposal to combat social dumping.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, social dumping is the poison that is destroying the european project. in europe in 2016 and tonight, in this house, i say to you, i am ashamed to see women and men still exploited as employees, i am ashamed to see abusive practices imposed by unscrupulous employers who swept away national and european legislation with one hand. in 2016, truck drivers have to sleep and eat in their cabs, and employees are sometimes crammed into one room to sleep in dozens. that's their life. where is the dignity in europe? it is time to put an end to unfair competition, it is time to punish those who do not want to apply the rules, it is time to put things in order. ladies and gentlemen, who in this house is against putting an end to the exploitation of workers, whether they are french, polish or cypriot? the tools are there in this report, and i congratulate my colleague, mr balas: minimum wages, blacklisting of fraudulent companies, strengthening controls, combating false selfemployment, responsibility of contractors and subcontractors. the question at the heart of the debate is: what kind of europe do we want? do we want a europe where everyone is a savage for himself, destroying his neighbour if necessary, or a europe of solidarity, in which everyone has a place, a life, a dignified job? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i hope you will make the same choice when you vote on mr balas' report.
madam president, madam commissioner, as a person from a region that has been hit hard by the effects of unbridled globalisation, i did not need this report to become aware of the devastating effects of social dumping. wages below the smic, non-respect of the legal duration of working time, undignified housing conditions, it took twenty years for the "eurogagas" of the right and the left to finally realize that their sacrosanct directive on the posting of workers was going to produce such a social disaster. today, with this report, you continue to break down an open door and deceive the french. there is a lot of nonsense in this report because, instead of tackling the real causes of this social dumping, you pretend to act only on the consequences. by taking half measures, you are once again inflaming the french workers. the second directive on the posting of workers and the principle of free movement of workers have led to unfair competition, throwing hundreds of thousands of french people into unemployment and hyper-precariousness. commissioner, mr balas, if you really want to fight social dumping, there are no 36 solutions. firstly, we must simply repeal this infamous directive on posted workers, and then we must suspend the principle of free movement of workers within the european union. it is only under these conditions that we can finally put an end to this social breakdown and preserve our social model.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, my french colleague guillaume balas, for the spirit of openness and consensus with which he has drafted this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, for states as for companies or individuals, the success of one cannot be achieved in the long term at the expense of the other. we therefore have a duty to act, otherwise we will be powerless to see the internal market, one of the pillars of the european construction, dismantled. it is necessary to respond to the malfunctions and even deviations of some of our guidelines in order to protect fundamental rights such as the free movement of persons. it is the wish of the group to which i belong, but also yours, commissioner thyssen, to have the courage to revise the directive on the posting of workers. i would like to pay tribute to my colleague and friend, mrs morin-chartier, who is a very good parliamentarian and who, i am sure, has the necessary skills and expertise to make this reform, which she will be the rapporteur for, a success. i would like to conclude, madam president, by addressing the responsibility of the member states. indeed, much of the dysfunction of european rules lies in the slow and sometimes partial or partial application of these by national authorities. but as the british example has shown, the ease, or even the cowardice, of blaming europe can have a sadly boomerang effect.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, you heard mr briois earlier, from the front national. he has outlined the real alternative if we do nothing, that is to say: 'it is simple: the end of the european union, the end of the internal market, the end of directives, the restoration of national borders, the end of free movement'. he's clear and he's counting on us to fail. he thinks we're going to fail, because he thinks we're too divided today to answer him. i believe that the work that has been done and which has resulted in the majority of the groups in the committee on social affairs and employment voting for this compromise is the best answer we can give to him, but above all to the european citizens who will thus see that europe is not just a fossil, but is moving to defend them, that europe is not a problem, but that it is finally becoming the solution. i would like to say, mr lenaers, that no, this report is not intended to fulfil the dreams of socialists. you know, i'm a socialist and not a softy, but mrs. jazłowiecka is not a socialist and she's not soft either. i can assure you that we socialists, we on the left, have had to accept many compromises which we did not want at the beginning and that the epp has had many victories in this report, which was not easy to get the left to accept. so it is not a socialist report, far from it. i would also like to point out that the only elements relating to directive 96, the source directive, merely recall commissioner thyssen's proposals, without even judging them. there is therefore no opinion on the question of directive 96 since we know that this is a debate which will come later. when we talk about the posting of workers, we are talking about the application of existing legislation and, in particular, the question of controls. i would like to end by saying that i agree with mr casa. it was a long, difficult, exciting job, and i met some very exciting fictional reporters. the balance that has been found must be respected, but all the balance that has been found. we will then be able to respond to our fellow citizens in a useful way.
in writing. finally, we have a text which clearly defines what social dumping is. we have been waiting for such a definition for years. although social policies are a matter for the member states, european cooperation is essential. i have been advocating for many years for social convergence so that we can fight together against unfair social competition. this convergence must of course be upwards. it is inconceivable that the most advanced social systems should be undermined in the process.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr guillaume balas, on the fight against social dumping in the european union. this report sends a clear message to the commission and calls for concrete measures to combat social dumping. the drawing up of a blacklist of companies which do not comply with social legislation, the registration of declarations of secondment in a european register, the strengthening of controls or the limitation of secondments over time are all proposals which would strengthen the social dimension of the internal market. the commission must now act, this vote shows that there is a parliamentary majority to move forward on these necessary measures. i also welcome the fact that the report calls for the establishment of a 60% threshold of the national average wage as a reference for setting the minimum wage in the member states. finally, on road transport, which is the epitome of social dumping, the report also goes in the right direction by calling on the commission to set up a european road transport agency to ensure compliance with the rules.
president of the committee on budgets. mr president, this late debate on the draft budget for 2017, as a consequence of the timetable chosen by the united kingdom to hold its brexit referendum, comes on the eve of two expected events. first, the state of the union address by the president of the commission, followed by the presentation of the draft mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. my dear colleagues, we can still dream. he dreams that the 2017 budget will no longer be just an annual tranche of the financial framework. our budgetary hemiplegia prevents us from deliberating on the revenue. as for our field of work, expenditure, 1% of european gdp, is distributed at a rate of 80% to the member states. so only 20% is left for supranational actions, which is the essence of the european budget. but a third of that 20% is already pre-empted to finance the institutions - the commission, parliament, council, court of justice, court of auditors, agencies. how can we respond to crisis situations and prepare for the future? yes, ladies and gentlemen, less than 14% of our budget is allocated to the research programmes horizon 2020, erasmus, the programme for the interconnection of infrastructure in europe, to control our external borders, to welcome refugees with dignity, to combat terrorism, unemployment, especially among young people, to regulate agricultural production, to combat tax havens and fraud of all kinds, to meet our humanitarian obligations in the regions devastated by war, to reduce the sources of economic migration through an ambitious policy of development aid, particularly in africa. the financial framework, which is a mirror of the past, is outdated and lacks any significant flexibility. this is the zero degree of politics. the situation is so miserable that the commission is multiplying budgetary satellites - efsi, trust funds, budgetary facilities for turkey - which are like galaxies beyond parliamentary control. our budget is a spectacle of impotence, an illegible budget, a budget that is incomprehensible to the citizens, an illustration of the european union's inability to speak to the europeans. i hope that the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework will bring our budget out of the simulation it has been in for years. let us be vigilant about the appropriations made available to the member states and the cohesion funds that are sanctioned by nature. the payment forecasts are revised downwards because commitments are not being decided on quickly. why would you do that? i think it is because the new cohesion programmes and our regulations have become so complex that they are repelling public investors and local actors. that means that there is an urgent need for a drastic revision of our financial regulations. perhaps also because, however important, european aid covers only part of the expenditure, forcing operators to go into debt as if europe were becoming a catalyst for public spending and debt. in conclusion, at this stage of the budgetary procedure, we remain confident. we look forward to designing and voting budgets that give the union the means to show its power, budgets that speak to europeans, budgets that demonstrate to public opinion the effectiveness of the european union's added value.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr minister, commissioner vella, i do not know whether we should talk about wildlife trade, or whether it would be more appropriate to talk about wildlife trade, since when it comes to wildlife trade, wildlife is on the side of humanity. i also do not know whether we should talk about trade, but rather about crime, the crimes of humanity against endangered species. we always tend to wait for tragedy to happen before we act, and the decline of these species has now become tragic. as you said, the african lion is declining by almost half its population and is disappearing from 12 european countries. almost all of africa's elephants are being slaughtered for their ivory. millions of pangolins and rhino are being poached for their scales and horns, and the forests of madagascar, near my home island of réunion, are being plundered for their rosewood. we must take the time factor into account. it's late, very late, but not too late to both stop the sixth wave of species extinction, but also to stop the decline in wildlife.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr juncker, we have rarely been served with a more dull, insipid speech, with no breath, no vision, a flat brain. it was as if we were witnessing the funeral eulogy of the european union. except perhaps, it must be admitted, the rather successful humorous moment when you presented yourself as the hero of the fight against the savage tax optimization of corporations. but let's get back to the basics. in fact, you have seen nothing, heard nothing of the immense aspiration of the peoples to regain their independence and freedom. mr weber has given us an element: he reads what people think in the newspaper. stop reading the paper, mr. weber. if you want to know what young people think, look at what they vote for, and i say this with great calmness, because in my country, france, the movement i have the honour of presiding over is the leading party among young people. in fact, brexit has broken a taboo. the british are proving that it is possible to leave the european union and, better, to leave it to their advantage. the catastrophic predictions were a lie. the united kingdom is doing very well, the shock of distrust you were hoping for has turned into a shock of confidence. you would have liked, as we all understood, to see the apocalypse come upon the british. well, it's not for tomorrow. your solution, whatever the problems or circumstances, is more europe. terrorism, immigration, the economy, agriculture, you are counting on europe to protect us. but this europe which 'protects' us - i put huge quotes in quotes - no one believes in it any more, it is no more than a magic formula, without any power. by denying national borders in the name of schengen, you allow all trafficking, all crime to flourish. by attacking the idea of nation, by preventing the control of immigration, you allow the growth of communalism, islamism and ultimately terrorism. what is europe protecting us from? what about security? by imposing a destructive economic policy on the countries of southern europe to save the euro and not the people, you have killed economic growth, put many companies into liquidation and caused unemployment to explode. what is europe protecting us from? the wealth? you are imposing more european union against the will of the people, at the risk of increasing tensions. your harsh words, mr juncker, in may against the british, your disregard for referendums are disturbing. what is europe protecting us from? freedom, democracy, what is it? it's time to shake hands. the various peoples of europe need plans for the future, a destiny which only their national community can offer them. let the nations free themselves, let them cooperate with each other as they wish, better than with brussels. be a democrat, let the people decide their own destiny. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
answer is "blue cardboard". i am a great believer in democracy, and i believe that the referendum is the best way to implement it. therefore, i have already said for more than four years that i would organise a referendum so that the french people could have a say on france's exit from the european union.
madam president, allow me to quote a french poet who said: 'there is no love, there are only proofs of love.' after brexit, mr president of the commission, i am afraid that your declaration of love for europe is not enough, we will need proof. how long have people been waiting for the european social pillar? no wonder they no longer believe in it, and therefore how can we be happy that we have blocked 80% of european legislation? so yes, europe is waiting for action. in this case we lack budgetary evidence and this lack of means contributes to the stagnation. what is expected is consistency between words and deeds, what is expected is a balance between political announcements and budgetary means, starting with a real revision of the multiannual financial framework and a different budget for 2017. what we expect is that every new political decision, such as the one you have announced today and which we share, on security, borders and defence, will be accompanied by new budgetary resources. what we reject are budget cuts which strip research, that is to say the investment of tomorrow, to clothe the investment of today. what we are waiting for is the funding of the youth guarantee you mentioned, but for which the commission has indicated zero euro commitments in the 2017 budget. and what we are waiting for, mr president, and mr president-in-office of the council, is an initiative to establish new own resources, not yet another committee, but a proposal and negotiation with each parliament in each member state.
the rapporteur. mr president, i want to speak about the vote on the report which has just taken place, i am the rapporteur. i simply wanted to thank the fictitious rapporteurs for the long and arduous but excellent work we have done and simply say one thing: through the voice of its parliament, europe says it wants social progress, so now europe must do what is necessary to achieve it.
mr president, we are likely to reject the proposals for technical standards which the european commission has put before us because it has not listened to the demands of this parliament. however, we want to reaffirm our commitment to protecting retail investors and therefore refuse to challenge the content of level 2. that is the spirit of the oral amendment which i ask you to support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is clear that croatia and switzerland will benefit politically, economically and culturally from the signing of this protocol iii. free movement is a crucial element which cannot be separated from participation in the internal market.
in writing. - i voted against this protocol. we are opposed in principle to the concept of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, which encourages forced mobility and erases the concept of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all means at its disposal to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs, and we can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because switzerland benefits, to the same extent as the member states of the union, from the internal market and its enlargements. there is no doubt that croatia and switzerland have much to gain from signing the current protocol iii, politically, economically and culturally, by benefiting from an enlarged internal market in which free movement is an essential element.
in writing. ‒ we are fundamentally opposed to the 'free movement' constantly promoted by the euro-globalists: not to mention the migration problems, this dogma is the main cause of social dumping, encouraging forced 'mobility' and erasing the very notion of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all the means at its disposal to have it annulled or invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs, and i can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the protocol to the ec-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons, to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. the agreement on the free movement of persons, signed in 2000 as part of the first bilateral agreement and in force since 1 june 2002, was signed between switzerland and the eu-15. it is the only agreement which has not been made automatically applicable to new member states and therefore has to be extended after each new accession. the protocol is being reviewed following the accession of croatia to the eu. i remain opposed to the principle of total free movement and furthermore, following the swiss vote against immigration quotas in 2014, the eu was quick to condemn it. i am therefore afraid that this agreement will still be nothing more than an interference in swiss affairs, and out of a sense of caution i voted against the protocol.
in writing. ‒ this protocol lays down, inter alia, the rules governing the movement of persons between the european union and switzerland following the accession of croatia to the union. i am fundamentally opposed to the free movement of people, which i regard as one of the main causes of social dumping. i also recall the attitude of the eu leaders towards switzerland during its referendum on immigration, which was particularly outrageous and led to unacceptable interference in switzerland's internal affairs. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the european union must update its agreement with switzerland on the free movement of persons. under the agreement, which was signed in june 2002, nationals of both parties can enter, reside, settle and study in the territory of the other party as easily as a national resident. the new protocol gives switzerland the possibility of restricting access to its labour market for croatian nationals for a period of seven years. a safeguard clause even provides that at the end of this period, switzerland may, for a further three years, unilaterally limit the number of residence permits that allow croats to come to work there. i am opposed to the free movement of people, which is the main cause of social dumping, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the european parliament's recommendation on the protocol updating the agreement between the european union and switzerland following the accession of croatia to the union and deals with possible compensation to the union's partner country when it expands its market to include a new member. the rapporteur recommends supporting the commission's proposal for such a negotiation. considering that this technical report arises from the accession of croatia to the union, i voted in favour.
in writing. i supported this text for the conclusion of a protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states and switzerland on the free movement of persons to take account of the accession of croatia. it seems to me quite normal that agreements with partner countries take account of the accession of new members of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the free movement of persons, signed in 2000 as part of the 'bilateral agreement i' between the eu and switzerland, gave nationals of both parties rights equivalent to those provided for in the community acquis. this agreement must be renewed with each new accession. we are opposed to the concept of free movement in principle. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we are opposed to the notion of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, encouraging forced mobility and erasing the notion of belonging to a country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i am against this protocol on free movement. we are opposed in principle to the concept of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, which encourages forced mobility and erases the concept of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all means at its disposal to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs, and we can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the protocol to the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the free movement of persons. the agreement will allow croats to enjoy the same right to freedom of movement as any european citizen, following croatia's accession to the european union. the agreement allows switzerland to re-enter the horizon 2020 programme, which was suspended following its refusal to ratify the protocol in 2014. this is a decision which i am satisfied with and which is in the direction of a closer union. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to the european 'free movement' which encourages forced mobility and social dumping. i commend switzerland for having dared to vote in 2014 for the introduction of immigration quotas, which allows it to limit the number of entries to its territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the protocol to the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the free movement of persons following the accession of croatia. i am opposed to schengen, which is the main cause of social dumping, encourages forced mobility and erases the notion of belonging to a country. i am all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the union was of course quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all the means at its disposal to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs.
in writing. ‒ we are naturally opposed to the notion of free movement, the main cause of social dumping, which encourages forced mobility and erases the notion of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working in every way to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs. that is why i voted against this indefensible text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. it is a further development of the concept of free movement, which is one of the main causes of the social dumping organized by the european union. while switzerland voted in 2014 several texts to control entry to its territory, the union is using this national referendum to impose its vision. beyond these considerations, the text favours forced mobility and fights the notion of belonging to a country. we can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ we are naturally opposed to the notion of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, which encourages forced mobility and erases the notion of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working in every way to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs, and we can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed in principle to the notion of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, encouraging forced mobility and erasing the notion of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this since switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas in order to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all means at its disposal to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i am opposed to the notion of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, which encourages forced mobility and erases the notion of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all means at its disposal to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs, and i can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to give parliament's consent to croatia's accession to the protocol to the agreement on the free movement of persons concluded between the european union and switzerland. as croatia joined the european union only on 1 july 2013, it was not a party to the protocol, although as a member state it has a full place in it. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on principle, i am firmly opposed to the notion of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, encourages forced mobility and erases the notion of belonging to a country. this agreement is especially outrageous since switzerland voted by referendum in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all the means at its disposal to have it annulled or invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs, and i can only vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical text, which is part of the adjustments linked to croatia's accession to the european union. i therefore approved the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and switzerland to extend to croatian nationals the existing free movement agreement between the two parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european parliament's approval to the conclusion of a protocol between the union and the swiss confederation. the protocol extends the existing free movement agreement between the two parties to croatian nationals, following croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed in principle to the notion of free movement, which is the main cause of social dumping, encouraging forced mobility and erasing the notion of belonging to a country. we are all the more opposed to this agreement because switzerland voted in february 2014 to introduce immigration quotas to control the entry of foreigners into its territory. the european union has of course been quick to judge and condemn this referendum, working with all means at its disposal to have this vote annulled/invalidated. this agreement is just another interference in swiss affairs. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. as a co-legislator, it is essential that the european parliament, represented by the chairman of its committee on employment and social affairs, be systematically invited to the tripartite social summit for growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the governance that is imposed, without any consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments. i therefore voted against this report, which institutionalises a new anti-democratic structure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i want to see integrated european policies for growth and jobs. this summit is a promising start.
in writing. - there is no question of endorsing this desire to institutionalize a new undemocratic structure. this so-called 'social dialogue at the summit' is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages the 'structural reforms' dictated by the commission. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of the osh also serves to legitimize the 'governance' of technocrats, without any regard for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ created in 2003, this summit meets at least once a year, before the spring european council, to discuss social and employment issues. these discussions are now part of the eu 2020 strategy. the aim is to clarify how osh for inclusive growth can contribute to economic governance. this social dialogue in reality only involves partners who are an integral part of the system and the ultra-liberal line of this discussion must in reality favour the structural reforms which the union wants and which we are denouncing. worse, the schengen area is seen as untouchable and the integration of migrants as an opportunity for europe. this governance is imposed without regard for national democratic institutions and in reality serves only as a social guarantee without actually being one. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ established in 2003, the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs takes place once a year and brings together the president of the european council, the president of the commission and the rotating presidency of the council. the text provides for the social partners recognised by the institutions and the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs to be associated with the summit. this social dialogue, involving only officials who are dependent on the european institutions, is a far-reaching hoax: it actually serves to strengthen the legitimacy of undemocratic european institutions whose representatives are not elected by direct universal suffrage. but above all, this summit is an opportunity to define the method required to impose ultra-liberal structural reforms on the member states. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report constitutes the european parliament's approval of the revision of council decision 2003/174/ec institutionalizing a tripartite summit for growth and jobs. the purpose of the revision is to adapt the 2003 decision to current legislative, social and economic developments. the tripartite summit for growth and jobs brings together the council, the commission and the social partners. the aim of this summit is to maintain a permanent dialogue between the european institutions and the social partners. this will ensure that the european strategy for growth and jobs is more in line with the realities on the ground. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite summit is a forum for the european institutions to establish a constructive dialogue with employers' and trade union representatives. the report proposes that the european parliament approve the new rules governing the tripartite summit, which include the participation of the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs. i believe that this report will help to improve the representation of the european parliament at the tripartite social summit, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. with this vote, we have given our approval to the draft council decision adapting the 2003 council decision on the organisation of high-level informal meetings in the framework of tripartite social summits. this adaptation must be made to meet the new requirements introduced by the treaty of lisbon. while the missions of the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs remain broadly the same, it is mainly its composition that will be changed.
in writing. ‒ established in 2003, this summit meets at least once a year, before the spring european council, to discuss social and employment issues. the sst includes a trio of presidents: the president of the european council, the president of the european commission, and the rotating presidency of the council. we cannot support this social dialogue, which is based on the ultra-liberal principles long defended by the european union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we must refuse to endorse the institutionalisation of a new undemocratic structure.
in writing. ‒ this report analyses the 'social dialogue at the summit', which is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance and a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the governance that is imposed, without any consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr csaba sogor, validating the rules of procedure of the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs. it is a monthly summit which provides a platform for exchange between the european institutions and representatives of employers' and trade union organisations. the regulation provides for the presence of the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, which is a welcome innovation. my commitment to employment leads me to welcome this initiative, which supports the action taken by the european union to promote its social dimension. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am hostile to the false social dialogue it endorses, which is only an illusion to hide the ultra-liberalism of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs. this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the governance that is imposed, without any consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' distorted, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level remains a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the 'lack of consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments'. for these various reasons, i opposed this report on aberrant accents.
in writing. - i voted against this text. it concerns the approval of the establishment of the tripartite social summit, composed of the president of the european council, the president of the european commission and the president of the council of europe. it meets to discuss social and employment issues, in the context of the eu 2020 strategy for inclusive growth. the composition could change: it is planned to involve the social partners recognised by the institutions, and to include the chairman of the employment committee. the text also provides that all participatory bodies may help to design the agenda. finally, the priorities adopted should then be submitted to the european parliament for approval. this summit involves only partners who are an integral part of the system, whose independence is questionable. the text shows an ultra-liberalism which encourages structural reforms. on the other hand, the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe, which i do not agree with.
in writing. ‒ this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' distorted, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the 'lack of regard for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments'. i have opposed this report because i reject the institutionalisation of a new undemocratic structure.
in writing. ‒ this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the governance that is imposed, without any consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the governance that is imposed, without any consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee of osh serves to legitimize the governance that is imposed, without any consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs is a forum created in 2003 bringing together the european institutions and the european social partners (trade union and employers' representatives). i voted in favour of this technical procedure, which validates the new rules of procedure for this summit, in the context of the application of the lisbon treaty. for example, the new regulation provides that the european parliament is systematically represented in this forum with the presence of the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which represents the european parliament's approval of the draft council decision. the initial proposal aims to adapt the 2003 council decision to comply with the institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. the text also aims to revise the overall strategic framework, replacing the lisbon strategy with the europe 2020 strategy and also specifying how the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs is to contribute to overall governance.
in writing. ‒ this social dialogue at the summit is presented as essential to reinforce the legitimacy of economic governance with a strengthened 'social pillar'. however, it only involves partners who are all the more dependent on the institutions as they are an integral part of the system. the ultra-liberal line of these discussions is clear and strongly encourages structural reforms. in addition, the schengen area is considered untouchable, and the integration of migrants is seen as an opportunity for europe. not only is the 'social dialogue' rigged, and the desire to relaunch the process at member state level a mere formulation of principle, but this social guarantee serves to legitimize the governance that is imposed, without any consideration for national and democratic institutions, starting with national parliaments. i voted against it.
in writing. - i abstained on that subject. the report aims to improve and harmonise safety standards and regulations on safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing in european waters, but very similar regulations already exist in france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the uniform application of the common technical requirements for inland waterway vessels in the european union. i believe that this is essential if we are to guarantee a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation within the european area.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. this technical report is neither revolutionary nor scandalous and has little impact on france, where many similar regulations are already in force in the fields concerned. but i was opposed to the principle, on the basis of the problems involved, of uniform regulation at european level, and i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which aims to harmonise safety and environmental regulations for vessels sailing on european waters. it is a purely technical report, which is neither revolutionary nor scandalous and has little impact on france, where many regulations are already in place which are compatible with those required by this report. however, the very principle of uniform regulation across the union remains problematic.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. this report, which is essentially technical, has little impact on france, where similar regulations are often already in force, but the recommendation nevertheless aims to standardize european regulations in this field. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report presents provisions which already exist in the regulations of the states. as such, i have no objection to the substance. but this is about uniformising all regulations at european level, which to me is nonsense. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to develop a set of common and uniform technical standards developed by the european committee for the development of standards in inland navigation (cesni). i support the objectives of this exercise in harmonising and updating the rules, which is necessary for the performance and reliability of ships sailing in europe, and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. as i am opposed to the principle of harmonization, although the practical scope of this report is limited in france, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: a technical report which does not affect france where many similar regulations are already applied in the fields concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. this text is neither revolutionary nor scandalous and has little impact on france, where many similar regulations are already in force in the areas concerned. but the principle of uniform regulation at european level is fundamentally problematic. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the belet report on the technical requirements for inland waterway offices. the main aim of this text is to standardise and simplify technical standards. from now on, the standards will be issued by an international body established in 2015 (the european committee for standardisation in inland navigation) and will be taken over by the union by means of delegated acts. i welcome this report, which makes it possible to clarify the legislation in force for our fellow citizens. i welcome the fact that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. the purpose of this text is to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulations on safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. this is a technical report which is neither revolutionary nor scandalous and has little impact on france, where many similar regulations are already in force in the fields concerned. but the principle of uniform regulation at european level is fundamentally problematic.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and safety and environmental regulations for vessels sailing on european waters. this is a technical report, which is neither revolutionary nor scandalous, and which, moreover, has little bearing on france, where many similar regulations are already in force in the fields in question. but the principle of uniform regulation at european level is fundamentally problematic. so i abstained on that subject.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this text aims to improve safety and navigation rules on european waters, which we welcome. but it also aims to harmonize the rules, depriving the nations of their sovereignty a little more, as usual, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and safety and environmental regulations for vessels sailing on european waters. this is a technical report which is neither revolutionary nor scandalous and which, moreover, has little impact on france, where many similar regulations are already applied in the fields in question. but the principle of uniform regulation at european level is fundamentally problematic. so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. it is not revolutionary or scandalous and has little impact on france, where many similar regulations are already in force in the areas concerned. however, the principle of uniform regulation at european level is questionable and justifies our abstention.
in writing. ‒ this technical report is neither revolutionary nor scandalous and has little impact on france, where many similar regulations are already in force in the areas concerned. but the principle of uniform regulation at european level is fundamentally problematic. i'll hold off on that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. the commission has already started negotiations for the second reading between parliament and the council, which enabled the trans committee to approve a text on 7 april. in the light of these negotiations in advance, the council's position at first reading should be adopted.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. this is a technical text which is neither revolutionary nor scandalous and has little impact on france, where many similar regulations are already applied in the fields concerned. but the principle of uniform regulation at european level is fundamentally problematic. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which deals with technical requirements for inland waterway vessels. this report is part of the review of directive 2006/87/ec to allow the standardisation of technical standards developed by the european committee for standardisation in inland navigation (cesni). simplification of standards for operators in the sector is necessary, and legal certainty must be increased, without limiting the potential of technical and technological developments.
in writing. ‒ this is a report to improve and harmonise the safety level and the regulation of safety and environmental requirements for vessels sailing on european waters. this report is technical and does not concern france, where many similar regulations are already in force in the areas concerned. but the principle of uniform regulation at european level is fundamentally problematic. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ although this is probably the 'least bad' of the three economic partnership agreements, i voted against this agreement: the european commission's attitude in the negotiations was unworthy: the acp presidents themselves admitted that it had increased 'excessive demands' and had undermined 'regional integration' of the african continent. it has blackmailed ratification of the agreements by threatening to suspend trade preferences for non-ldc countries in the region as of 1 october 2016. sadc, by opening up the markets of the ldcs more than the existing 'everything but arms' regime, would cause immediate economic losses to lesotho and mozambique, which are already the most fragile countries in the region. sadc epa is purely commercial in nature, devoid of any development aid ambition. it is also in contradiction with the eu's policy of promoting human rights in the region, notably in swaziland. the sadc provisions in this area are inferior to those contained in previous epas (e.g. cariforum epa).
in writing. ‒ the proposed economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from the sadc (south africa, namibia, mozambique, botswana, lesotho, swaziland, etc.). one of the issues is the white sugar produced in this area, which is already in strong competition with european production, mozambique being a major producer, very competitive, whose exports to the eu are increasing very strongly. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because this partnership agreement is a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the efta states, which is of strong political significance and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this new free trade agreement with the southern african development community (sadc) countries, which includes south africa, namibia, mozambique and botswana. the risks include a sharp increase in sugar imports into the european union, to the detriment of our producers.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns an economic partnership agreement between the union and the acp epa states such as south africa, lesotho, mozambique, etc. the eu imports 31 billion of goods from the region and exports 33 billion. this agreement guarantees these countries duty-free access to the eu market. the countries of the zone will liberalise 86% of their trade with the eu but sensitive sectors (fisheries, agriculture) and nascent industries will remain protected. however, the eu does not protect sugar imports from mozambique, for example, and this is detrimental to us. this arrangement is therefore asymmetrical. i have therefore decided to vote against this recommendation which is just another free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ this economic partnership agreement is asymmetric with a duty-free tariff for imports from these countries. i therefore voted against this supplementary free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ this draft resolution concerns the approval of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the southern african development community. the eu member states export €33 billion worth of goods from the area and import €31 billion worth of goods from the area. the agreement, which was negotiated in a voluntarily asymmetrical manner, guarantees these countries duty-free access to the eu market but also gives them the opportunity to protect their strategic sectors and their nascent industries. i opposed this agreement, which does not protect our sugar beet sector from sugar imports from mozambique. already destabilised by the fall in the price of raw materials, this sector now faces the multiplication of tariff concessions and the abolition of import quotas granted under free trade agreements. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the european parliament's recommendation on the economic partnership agreement concluded between the european commission and the southern african development community (sadc) states comprising botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland. the objectives of the agreement are to contribute to poverty eradication through a trade partnership, to encourage the gradual integration of the sadc epa states into the world economy and to support conditions conducive to increased investment. the european parliament report considers that the new agreement is fully compatible with the provisions of the southern african customs union and will not create internal distortions in this trade. considering that the economic partnership agreement is a key tool to support the economic development of the union's partners and to foster conditions conducive to growth, innovation and employment, i supported this report.
in writing. with this vote, we have approved the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and the sadc epa states, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, swaziland and south africa, on the other. such an agreement will strengthen our trade relations with a view to promoting development and growth on both sides. it seemed to me particularly important at the time that the agreement contained a protocol on geographical indications so that the european union could protect its names, particularly for trade in wines and spirits.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in this report because, while i am of course in favour of better access for the acp epa countries to the eu market, which would provide them with opportunities and help them develop and grow, i am wary of the collateral effects of destabilising small producers within the eu who would see their products competed locally. i am also concerned about the nature of the development desired for the sadc epa countries. this type of agreement often leads to specialisation of agriculture, with monocultures susceptible to market volatility and climatic accidents.
in writing. the eu-sadec agreement is the first economic partnership agreement signed between the european union and a group of acp countries, botswana, lesotho, swaziland, namibia, south africa and mozambique. economic partnership agreements (epas), intended to replace previous trade preference agreements that expired in 2007, are more ambitious than traditional trade agreements. under the terms of the agreement, the six states, all members of the southern african development community (sadc), will benefit from positive discrimination, i.e. immediate duty-free and quota-free access to the european single market for their exports. protective measures have been added at the request of the european parliament to ensure that this cooperation will really benefit africans. this agreement contains an appointment clause providing for the mandatory review of any epa after 5 years and its possible amendment. this should make it possible to assess the impact of the elimination of customs duties on a country-by-country basis, also measuring the impact of progress made and, if necessary, making adjustments and improvements, in a spirit of mutual trust.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc epa states, of the other part. the eu imports 31 billion of goods from this area and exports 33 billion. the countries of the zone will liberalise 86% of their trade with the eu, but sensitive sectors (fisheries, agriculture) and nascent industries will remain protected. this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical with customs duties being waived on imports from these countries. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from these countries.
in writing. ‒ this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from these countries. one of the main points is the 'white sugar' produced in this area which is already strongly competing with european production, mozambique being a major producer, very competitive, and whose exports to the eu are increasing strongly. i therefore voted against this supplementary free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague alexander graf lambsdorff on the economic partnership agreement between the union and the african states members of the sadc epa. it is the first real regional agreement between africa and the european union and marks an important step in the future trade relations between the two regions. i consider this programme to be a complete one, since it provides for support for investment, improvement of the capacity of states in the field of trade policy and promotion of regional integration. despite the difficulties facing the region, i believe it is important to take concrete actions that are forward-looking. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it supports the signing of a new free trade agreement, this time with south africa and neighbouring countries. free trade agreements are dangerous for the european economy, especially for its agriculture.
in writing. ‒ economic partnership agreements (epas) replace previous trade agreements with the world's poorest countries. these agreements (cotonou, lomé) gave these countries trade preferences to enter the european market and sell their products and goods there, while protecting their markets against ours. they had to make the transition while waiting for a global agreement within the wto. when the african market failed to emerge, free trade advocates saw an opportunity to open up african markets. under the pretext of maintaining the trade preferences granted to african countries, the european union is trying to claim the same rights to enter their market. this has several dangers: for local products, european competition may destroy entire sectors; the eap requires further liberalisation, privatisation and the creation of a market economy. the loss of customs duty revenue will limit tax revenues; finally, the southern african economic zone is a grouping of countries with too different levels of development. we are therefore moving from an unbalanced trade relationship in favour of developing countries to an equal trade relationship between unequal partners, which i refuse to do in order to protect the development of these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the economic partnership agreement between the union and the sadc epa states. the draft legislative resolution concerns the approval of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the sadc states of south africa, namibia, mozambique, botswana, lesotho, swaziland, etc. the eu imports 31 billion of goods from this area and exports 33 billion. this agreement guarantees these countries duty-free access to the eu market. the countries of the zone will liberalise 86% of their trade with the eu, but sensitive sectors (fisheries, agriculture) and nascent industries will remain protected. however, the eu does not do so, as it does not protect its sugar sector from a country such as mozambique, which is very competitive and increasingly exports to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from these countries. one of the issues is the 'white sugar' produced in this area, which is already in strong competition with european production, with mozambique being a major and highly competitive producer whose exports to the eu are increasing strongly. i therefore voted against this umpteenth free trade agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this text. it concerns the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the following sadc states (south africa, namibia, mozambique, botswana, lesotho, swaziland, etc.). it is an agreement on trade in goods and development cooperation which is deliberately asymmetric. this text guarantees these countries duty-free access to the eu market even though there is no reciprocity. in particular, white sugar is a problem, as it is already in strong competition with european production.
in writing. ‒ i refused to support the european parliament's ratification of the economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european union and six southern african states. negotiated under the barroso commission, it is symptomatic of the ideological blindness of european negotiators, even when it comes to trade agreements with developing states, some of which are among the 'least developed countries'. such an agreement will inevitably generate substantial budgetary losses for the signatory countries, in particular lesotho and mozambique, which have hitherto enjoyed full, duty-free access to the european market without any counterpart in terms of opening up their own markets. with the epa, the six african states will be forced to open up their markets, especially agricultural ones, by more than 80%. in the minds of the negotiators, the purely commercial nature of the epa provides an alibi for avoiding the problems of cooperation in economic, social and political development. the european right believes that there is no alternative to the epa, thus justifying the shameful pressure exerted by the commission on african parliaments to rush its ratification. while it is true that the current system was no longer in line with wto rules, the commission had a moral duty to negotiate a less unfavourable agreement for africa.
in writing. ‒ this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from these countries. one of the issues is the 'white sugar' produced in this area, which is already in strong competition with european production, mozambique being a major and very competitive producer, whose exports to the eu are increasing very strongly. i therefore voted against this supplementary free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the subject of this draft legislative resolution is the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the states of the southern african development community (sadc) (south africa, namibia, mozambique, botswana, lesotho, swaziland). the agreement guarantees these countries duty-free access to the eu market, liberalising 86% of trade but retaining protection for sensitive sectors of fisheries and agriculture, and certain other nascent industries. however, the eu does not ask for protection of its sugar sector, which will find itself in competition with mozambique in particular. we oppose this asymmetrical agreement which could harm our white sugar production.
in writing. ‒ this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from these countries. one of the issues is the 'white sugar' produced in this area, which is already in strong competition with european production, mozambique being a major and very competitive producer, whose exports to the eu are increasing very strongly. i therefore vote against this additional free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the sadc epa states (southern african development community). the aim of the agreement is to promote trade and growth both for the european union and its trading partners.
in writing. ‒ this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from the countries concerned. the most important problem is the white sugar produced in this region, which is already in strong competition with european production, with mozambique being a large and very competitive producer whose exports to the eu are increasing very strongly. i therefore decide to vote against this supplementary free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the conclusion of the economic partnership agreement (epa) signed on 11 june 2016 between the european union and the six states of the southern african development community (sadc) comprising namibia, mozambique, botswana, swaziland, lesotho and south africa. the trade agreement, which grants preferential access to the eu market to these countries, has the general objectives of eradicating poverty in the region, promoting regional integration, increasing investment and gradually integrating the sadc countries into the global economy and value chains.
in writing. ‒ in order to comply with wto decisions, the european union has been negotiating economic partnership agreements (epas) with the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries since 2002. these agreements aim, among other things, to reverse the trade preference granted to these countries. the agreement with the southern african development community (sadc) was the result of difficult negotiations and was signed on 16 june 2016 under pressure from the european commission. the agreement includes some progress, such as the introduction of a chapter on sustainable development, although it is not binding. but this is not enough. by favouring a trade-oriented approach over a development assistance approach, which these countries need, the agreement remains too unbalanced. it also does not promote regional integration, or the participation of civil society in its implementation, particularly with regard to human rights and governance. in view of these imbalances, i opposed the agreement.
‒ i opposed the ratification of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the states of the southern african development community (sadc epa). this agreement with south africa, botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland, the first of three agreements with africa currently being adopted, raises three main problems. first, the negotiating methods used by the european commission, which threatened to suspend trade preferences for non-ldc countries in the region as of 1 october 2016, cast doubt on the genuine commitment of our african partners to the content of this agreement. in addition, sadc epa, by opening up ldc markets beyond the existing one, would cause immediate economic losses for lesotho and mozambique, which are already the most fragile countries in the region. finally sadc epa is purely commercial in nature, devoid of any development aid ambition. it is in contradiction with the eu's policy of promoting human rights in the region, especially in swaziland. the sadc provisions in this area are inferior to those contained in previous agreements.
in writing. ‒ this economic partnership agreement is asymmetrical, with duty-free imports from these countries. one of the issues is the 'white sugar' produced in this area, which is already in strong competition with european production, mozambique being a major and very competitive producer whose exports to the eu are increasing very strongly. i voted against this deal.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement, which aims to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the three european agencies to support national authorities in their coast guard functions and will allow the efca to increase its control and inspection activities and to carry out new types of operations to detect criminal activities, disrupt trafficking routes and ensure the application of european and national legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's aim is to improve the working and living conditions of fishermen working on board vessels flying the flag of an eu member state by establishing a consolidated legal framework adapted to the working conditions in the maritime fisheries sector. the resolution currently under consideration in the empl committee seeks to call for the implementation of the agreement concluded between cogeca, the etf and europêche on the implementation of the ilo convention on work in fishing 2007. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe that workers in the fishing sector should be given special protection, particularly in view of the characteristics of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, and the risks and incidence of occupational diseases.
in writing. ‒ discussions on the establishment of a comprehensive and updated set of international standards for the fisheries sector started in 2002, under the leadership of the international labour organisation (ilo). in 2007, discussions culminated in the adoption of an international convention on work in fisheries. in its public consultation, the commission consulted the european social partners to examine the possibility of a joint initiative to promote the application of the provisions of the convention in the eu. several partners have started discussions, including the general confederation of eu agricultural cooperatives (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national organisations of eu fisheries enterprises (europêche). given that the european commission's aim is to improve the working and living conditions of fishermen working on board vessels flying the flag of an eu member state by establishing a consolidated legal framework adapted to the working conditions in the maritime fisheries sector, we considered that this agreement should be voted in favour of, as it also improves the living conditions of french fishermen.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to generalise the ilo provisions on work in the fisheries sector. these provisions are designed to protect fishermen, and france has already ratified the convention. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to implement the agreement between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives of the european union, the european transport workers' federation and the association of national fisheries organisation organisations of the european union on the international labour organisation convention on work in fishing, adopted in 2007. the proposal provides for the harmonisation of the legislative framework concerning working conditions on board fishing vessels. i voted for this text which protects fishermen from the dangers of their work.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation of the agreement between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives of the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national fisheries enterprise organisations of the european union (europeche), on the implementation of the international labour organisation's 2007 convention on work in fisheries. it is necessary to guarantee decent working conditions for workers in the fisheries sector, which faces a high rate of accidents at work and significant risks of occupational diseases. we therefore call on the member states to adopt as soon as possible the minimum requirements for adequate protection for these workers, including social protection.
in writing. ‒ this text is the result of negotiations initiated by the international labour organisation since 2002 to improve working conditions in the fisheries sector. this 2007 ilo convention establishes a framework for work on fishing vessels concerning the minimum conditions required for work on board fishing vessels and service conditions (staff, recruitment, working conditions on board). after consulting the social partners, the commission wishes to implement the said convention in the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: measures must be taken to prevent occupational accidents, occupational diseases and work-related risks on board; adequate training shall be provided to fishermen.
in writing. ‒ this text sets out the provisions for implementing the labour convention for the fisheries sector. as regards crew in particular, ships must have sufficient personnel of sufficient quality and number to ensure safe navigation and operation of the ship. a minimum rest period for fishermen must be fixed, and it may never be less than 10 hours per 24-hour period and 77 hours per 7-day period, according to the provisions on rest time. in addition, every fishing vessel must have a crew list on board. finally, a fisherman's commitment agreement must be signed between the fisherman and the shipowner. these measures seem to me to be an acceptable minimum and make it possible to limit the social dumping to which french fishermen may be subjected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague alexander graf lambsdorff on the economic partnership agreement between the union and the african states members of the sadc epa. it is the first real regional agreement between africa and the european union and marks an important step in the future trade relations between the two regions. i consider this programme to be a complete one, since it provides for support for investment, improvement of the capacity of states in the field of trade policy and promotion of regional integration. despite the difficulties facing the region, i believe it is important to take concrete actions that are forward-looking. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it provides guarantees for workers in the fisheries sector (maximum working hours, holidays, rest periods, social protection, medical protection, etc.). it is also based on an ilo convention which france has already ratified, which means that it will not impose any additional constraints on our country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the agreement on the implementation of the labour convention in the fisheries sector. in 2002, the international labour organisation (ilo) started global discussions on a comprehensive and updated set of international standards for the fisheries sector, to ensure adequate protection for fishermen worldwide. these discussions led to the adoption of the convention on work in fishing in 2007. the aim of the resolution is to improve the working and living conditions of fishermen working on board vessels flying the flag of an eu member state by establishing a consolidated legal framework adapted to the working conditions in the maritime fisheries sector. the text calls for the implementation of the agreement concluded between cogeca, the etf and europêche on the implementation of the ilo convention on labour in fisheries of 2007. it should be noted that france is the only member state to have ratified this convention.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's aim is to improve the working and living conditions of fishermen working on board vessels flying the flag of an eu member state by establishing a consolidated legal framework adapted to the working conditions in the maritime fisheries sector. the resolution therefore calls for the application of the agreement concluded between cogeca, the etf and european fisheries on the implementation of the ilo convention on labour in fisheries of 2007. it should be noted that france is the only member state to have ratified this convention. i voted for this resolution, and i think that is logical.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it called for the implementation of the agreement concluded between the european union's general committee on agricultural cooperation (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and european fisheries control agency on the implementation of the international labour organisation (ilo) convention on work in fishing of 2007. although france is the only member state to have ratified it in 2015, this convention is not yet in force. it provides both for the minimum conditions required (health and age of the workers, which we approve) and for the conditions of service (number of staff, minimum rest periods, question of repatriation, controlled payment rules, etc.). these minimum service conditions are positive and will improve safety and the fight against drift in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the ilo fisheries labour convention (no 188) and recommendation no 199 cover the issues essential to ensuring decent working and living conditions on board, including the responsibilities of shipowners and masters of fishing vessels for the health and safety of workers. however, to date only eight countries have ratified the fisheries labour convention, including only two eu countries - france and estonia - despite the council's decision to allow eu member states to ratify the convention. however, an agreement was reached between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives of the european union (cogeca), the european transport workers' federation (etf) and the association of national fisheries organisation of the european union (europeche) in may 2012. the report proposes to develop the provisions on wages, social protection and social security to guarantee an adequate and decent income for workers and their families, including in the event of injury, accident or death, and to provide for mechanisms for implementing this agreement. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's aim is to improve the working and living conditions of fishermen working on board vessels flying the flag of a member state by establishing a consolidated legal framework adapted to the working conditions in the maritime fisheries sector. the resolution calls for the application of the agreement concluded between cogeca, the etf and europêche on the implementation of the ilo convention on work in fishing, dated 2007. it should be noted that france is the only member state to have ratified this convention. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this agreement sets out basic provisions to be applied in the fisheries sector, which france is already applying. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to call for the implementation of the agreement concluded between cogeca, the etf and europêche on the implementation of the ilo convention on labour in fisheries, 2007. it should be noted that france is the only member state to have ratified this convention. this ratification is dated 28 october 2015, but has not yet entered into force. these are labour law protective provisions to be applied in the fisheries sector and france has already committed itself by ratifying the agreement. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation of the convention on labour in fisheries, established in 2007 by the international labour organisation (ilo). this text is a reminder of the importance of paying particular attention to workers in the european fisheries sector. the overall requirements of the convention on work in fishing are therefore minimal and thus allow member states to adapt measures to national specificities in favour of fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation by the union of the international labour organisation's convention on work in fishing. with the integration of the social partners' agreement on the ilo fisheries labour convention into european law, the union will be able to promote its implementation in partner countries around the world, thus contributing to the establishment of a level playing field in the fisheries sector at global level and to the fight against the worst forms of exploitation of fishermen.
in writing. ‒ today, more than 100 000 people are employed in the fisheries sector. yet it is one of the most accident-prone sectors in europe, with the number of accidents at work sometimes 15 times higher than in other sectors. lack of sleep, old or broken equipment and long working hours are just a sample of the difficult conditions faced by fishermen, which can quickly lead to human catastrophe. in 2007, the ilo adopted the convention on work in fishing, to ensure adequate protection for fishermen worldwide. unfortunately, at this stage only france has ratified this convention at the level of the european union. in an unusual procedure, the social partners therefore asked the european commission to implement the agreement on the ilo convention by a council directive. i am glad that the social partners have reached an agreement that is acceptable to all parties, after almost four years of negotiations. while the transport sector was very quick to implement the necessary transpositions, such a legal vacuum in the fisheries sector was no longer tolerable.
in writing. ‒ in 2002, the international labour organisation (ilo) started global discussions on a comprehensive and updated set of international standards for the fisheries sector, to ensure adequate protection for fishermen worldwide. these discussions culminated in 2007 with the adoption of the convention on work in fishing. in its public consultation, the commission consulted the european social partners to examine the possibility of a joint initiative to promote the application of the provisions of the convention in the eu. the european commission's aim is to improve the working and living conditions of fishermen working on board vessels flying the flag of an eu member state. the resolution currently under consideration seeks to request the application of the agreement concluded between cogeca, the etf and europêche on the implementation of the ilo convention on labour in fisheries, 2007. i voted yes. it should be noted that france is the only member state to have ratified this convention. this ratification is dated 28 october 2015, but has not yet entered into force.
in writing. ‒ three motions for resolutions on recent developments in poland were tabled. it is a common practice in the european parliament that when a government appears to be rather conservative and especially less submissive to the technocrats in brussels, european leaders initiate a series of pressure measures such as plenary debates, resolutions and the like. the resolution of the major political groups is an attack on poland's national sovereignty and that is why i opposed it. once again, the eu is interfering in the internal affairs of its member states. i have, however, supported the text proposed by the conservatives and the text drafted by my group, the enl.
in writing. - yesterday media pluralism, today women's rights, tomorrow freedom... we are witnessing a permanent coup d'état, with a serious breach of the balance of power marked by the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal. the commission considers that there is a systemic threat to the rule of law and fundamental rights in poland and has engaged in a dialogue with the government to put an end to this worrying situation. the polish authorities have until 27 october to take satisfactory action on the commission's recommendations. in this context, we adopted a resolution to support the commission's approach to the polish government. we are concerned, in addition to the constitutional crisis, about reforms which risk undermining fundamental rights. because the european union is founded on common values, we call on the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, to be uncompromising and to ensure that fundamental rights are respected in this country.
in writing. ‒ the change of majority in poland has brought with it a crisis between the constitutional tribunal and the legitimately elected polish government. this crisis and the conservative options of the new government have provoked the intervention of brussels in defiance of the most basic notions of sovereignty and respect for the verdict of the ballot box. the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. i voted against this unacceptable text. the eu does not have to interfere in the internal affairs of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as the current polish government is a systematic threat to the rule of law. the current constitutional crisis, government control of the public media and the politicization of the national administration are only contributing to the isolation of the country and the harm to polish citizens.
in writing. - what are we doing here? internal affairs of a sovereign and democratic state which is a member of the european union and which strictly respects its legislative framework and fundamental rights! as our colleagues in the ecr group rightly said in their alternative resolution, the existence of civic movements to ban abortion is perfectly legitimate, contrary to what the great left-wing lecturers in this parliament would have us believe. same goes for the other alleged violations of the bill of rights. these are the same lecturers who want to throw overboard one of the founding principles of the maastricht treaty, namely subsidiarity. article 5 of the eu treaty clearly states that 'in areas not falling within its exclusive competence, the union shall intervene only if and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states'. it's clear, sharp and precise. why do we so often forget this principle which, if properly applied, would prevent so many of our fellow citizens from turning their backs on europe?
in writing. ‒ the change of majority in poland has brought with it a crisis between the constitutional tribunal and the legitimately elected polish government. this crisis and the conservative options of the new government led to the intervention of brussels, in defiance of the most basic notions of sovereignty and respect for the verdict of the ballot box. the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. this text is unacceptable. we believe that the eu should not interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. that is why the enl group tabled its own resolution, as did the ecr group. • the enf and ecr resolutions seek to protect the sovereignty of the polish state • the joint resolution is a model for the future of relations between the commission and the member states. of course, we voted against this joint resolution, which is both anti-liberal and dangerous for the future of relations between the member states. the sovereign vote of the european peoples must be respected, or the union will be renamed the european prison.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution, which is a legitimate attack on poland's sovereignty and the verdict of the ballot box, is unacceptable. i therefore vote against the joint resolution. the enf and ecr resolutions, on the contrary, seek to protect polish sovereignty and therefore i vote for the enf resolution and i vote for the ecr resolution.
in writing. ‒ the change of majority in poland is the cause of an institutional crisis between the constitutional tribunal and the polish government, whose conservative options have been strongly criticised by the european union, in defiance of the basic principles of democracy. this joint motion for a resolution is a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of poland. we believe that the european union should not interfere in the internal affairs of its member states. that is why i voted against this unacceptable text.
in writing. ‒ since the eurosceptic pis party came to power in poland, the polish government has implemented highly controversial reforms. the reform of the constitutional tribunal and the reform of the public media have provoked strong reactions on the international and european scene. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has therefore decided to analyse the consequences of recent developments in poland on fundamental rights and the rule of law. we must ensure that all member states respect the treaties. the european values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union are respect for fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is our duty to ensure that these values are respected within the european union. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution reports on the political situation in poland and the violations of european fundamental rights. the resolution considers that the measures taken by the polish government and the president of the republic of poland in respect of the constitutional tribunal represent a major risk to constitutional democracy. considering that the constitutional tribunal was established as one of the central elements guaranteeing the balance of power of constitutional democracy and the rule of law in poland and that these attacks on polish constitutional democracy also infringe the fundamental rights of european citizens, in particular those of women, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this non-binding resolution on recent developments in poland and the consequences for fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is a balanced text which allows the european parliament to express its concerns about the systemic threats to the rule of law in poland. i supported this text which calls primarily on the european commission and the polish government to continue a constructive dialogue to ensure that the constitutional tribunal in poland clearly responds to the principle of judicial independence, a fundamental principle in europe.
in writing. ‒ meps deplore the lack of cooperation between the polish authorities and the commission in the framework of the rule of law procedure. we also wanted to react to other reforms (or proposed reforms) that threaten to undermine fundamental rights, in particular the laws on public media, the law on the police and the civil service and the issue of abortion, where women, doctors and nurses who perform abortions would be threatened with up to 5 years imprisonment. through this resolution, we call on the commission to assess the compliance of these laws with european law and union values. we also appeal to european public opinion. it is the integrity of the european union that is at stake here.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution and for the alternative resolutions tabled by ecr and enf. this resolution is part of the crisis between the polish constitutional tribunal and the government. it is marked by unacceptable interference by the european union in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, contrary to the alternative resolutions of the echr and enf.
in writing. ‒ against the joint resolution: the commission and the european parliament appear to be supporting the government of the judges under the guise of the rule of law.
in writing. - after hungary, poland! it is clear that when a government is not liked by the technocrats and the high priests of goodwill, it is declared undemocratic and must be punished. and it doesn't matter if he was democratically elected by a majority of citizens. 'the commission is convinced of a systemic threat to the rule of law in poland', we are told. the commission is a master of democracy and moral behaviour, a bunch of appointed officials who go to pay for their address books with multinationals once their mandate is over! but when you ask ordinary poles, you don't feel any concern about their individual freedoms. when asked about the constitutional tribunal, one gets the impression that it did not behave with the previous government as the independent institution you describe. which explains this. brecht said that when the people vote badly, you should dissolve the people. you are doing this very hard in europe with your mass immigration policies. but flute! i forgot about it! the polish people do not want to be dissolved. that's why they elected this government! how wrong they are!
in writing. the european parliament adopted a second resolution to support the commission in the formal dialogue it has started with the polish government this year. it concerns the policies of the current government which threaten the rule of law and fundamental rights in poland. the resolution, which was adopted by a large majority, allows meps to express their concerns about the constitutional crisis and other reforms, including media, freedom of expression, privacy protection and women's rights. the latter could be threatened by a proposed law restricting access to abortion. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, must continue to assess the policies and reforms being pursued by the polish government and their consistency with the union's values, which are not negotiable. it can do so in the framework of the rule of law process it has initiated by sending a notice and then recommendations to the polish government. the council must act on this by 27 october; the european parliament will remain attentive to developments in this dialogue and to the policy pursued by the polish government.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the resolution on poland, which i consider to be well-measured. in view of the situation in poland, which seems to be deteriorating, we cannot remain silent and must encourage dialogue between the authorities and the european commission, the guardian of the treaties. europe is a territory that has experienced terrible conflicts, dictatorships and totalitarian powers, but has also defended the principles of democracy and the rule of law and spread values that are now universal. observers in poland are concerned about the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal, whose decisions are not published in the official journal and whose members are prosecuted when they express their disagreement with the ruling power. we are quick to judge the policies of third countries, but today in poland certain laws on media freedom and the separation of powers threaten the stability and cohesion of the country. i do not want to prejudge the outcome of the dialogue which is being conducted at the highest level, but i think that the european parliament has a duty to support the commission's action when it comes to upholding our common values and principles.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. this text is unacceptable. we believe that the eu should not interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. that is why the enl group tabled its own resolution, as did the ecr group. the enf and ecr resolutions seek to protect the sovereignty of the polish state the joint resolution is a model for the future of relations between the commission and the member states. the commission and the european parliament appear as the support of the government of the judges under the guise of the rule of law. this omnipresent legal system, from which the eu draws a discourse on the standardization of states, is in fact a prison discourse, which will one day be opposed to us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in poland. the aim of this report is to assess the situation with regard to respect for human rights. i voted against the amendments which lead to interference in polish internal politics. despite the disagreements that the european union may have with the polish government, it is necessary to maintain a constructive dialogue in order to find solutions that will be in the interest of all. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it seriously undermines poland's sovereignty. some amendments, which sought to impose immigration and multiculturalism on this brave country, were fortunately rejected with the support of the enl group.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on poland. the change in the majority in poland has led to a crisis between the constitutional tribunal and the legitimately elected polish government. this crisis and the political options of the new government led to the intervention of brussels in defiance of the most basic notions of sovereignty and respect for the verdict of the ballot box. the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. this text is unacceptable. the eu does not have to interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. that is why the enl group tabled its own resolution.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. the eu does not have to interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. that is why the enl group tabled its own resolution, as did the ecr group. these two resolutions are aimed at protecting poland's sovereignty, which is why i voted for them but against the joint resolution, which aims to define a model for future relations between the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution. the european union, following the change of majority in poland and the ensuing constitutional crisis, has interfered to a very large extent in the internal affairs of the country, in contravention of the sovereignty of one of its member states. we strongly condemn this interference. that is why our group tabled its own resolution.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. we believe that the eu should not interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. that is why the enl group tabled its own resolution, as did the ecr group. these two resolutions are aimed at protecting poland's sovereignty, which is why i voted for them but against the joint resolution, which aims to define a model for future relations between the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ these are resolutions following brussels' interference in polish internal politics. the change in the majority led to a crisis between the constitutional tribunal and the newly elected government. we strongly oppose the joint resolution, which is a legitimate attack on poland's sovereignty and once again highlights the eu's scandalous interference in the internal affairs of the member states. however, we support the two alternative proposals tabled by the enf and ecr groups respectively.
in writing. ‒ while the resolutions advocated by the enl and ecr groups respect poland's sovereignty, the joint resolution does not, and i strongly oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent developments in poland and their consequences for the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the text recommends that, in the current context of brexit and the rise of extremism in europe, european leaders consider ways of reforming the european union in order to better respect the principle of subsidiarity and bring citizens closer to the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ the change of majority in poland has brought with it a crisis between the constitutional tribunal and the legitimately elected polish government. this crisis and the conservative options of the new government led to the intervention of brussels, in defiance of the most basic notions of sovereignty and respect for the verdict of the ballot box. the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. this text is unacceptable and i therefore vote against it. the eu does not have to interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. that is why the enl group tabled its own resolution, as did the ecr group, and i support these alternative motions for resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to remind the polish government of the urgency of resolving the constitutional crisis in which the country is currently found. the aim of this text is not to sue the government but to encourage it to engage in a greater dialogue with the european commission in order to find a solution to the various breaches of the rule of law that have been observed in poland in recent times. it should be remembered that poland, through the voice of its sovereign people, decided in 2003 to join the european union in order to belong to a group of states sharing common values and fundamental principles.
in writing. ‒ belonging to the european union means subscribing to a core set of values, based on the rule of law and democracy. if one member state violates these principles, the integrity of the union as a whole is undermined. the commission has therefore entered into a dialogue with the authorities of poland, where the balance of power is under threat due to the paralysis of the constitutional court and the liberticidal reforms of the conservative government. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. they are concerned about this situation of systemic threat to the rule of law which undermines the protection of fundamental rights, notably freedom and pluralism of the media, and women's rights. if i support the objective of this text, i would have liked it to be more ambitious on the need to adopt sanctions in case the polish government persists in its refusal to cooperate. it is the credibility of the union that is at stake. above all, this reinforces the need for a european rule of law pact to ensure that european values are respected on a daily basis in all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ since coming to power in october 2015, the conservative polish government has been pursuing a reform programme which has led to multiple opinions from the venice commission since the beginning of 2016 and led the european commission to question the government and the european parliament to adopt a resolution on 13 april 2016, as the measures taken constitute a threat to the rule of law in poland. the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal violates the principle of separation of powers and allows the government to introduce new laws that deliberately threaten the rights to privacy, freedom of expression, the right to a fair trial, women's rights and the impartiality of the public service. the resolution adopted supports the commission's initiative, which adopted an opinion and made a recommendation under the rule of law framework. the proposal also calls on the polish government to cooperate in seeking appropriate solutions to strengthen the rule of law in poland. the preservation of the rule of law and the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights is an absolute necessity, and i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which once again reflects the european union's concerns about the systemic threats to the rule of law in poland and the actions of the current polish government. this resolution focuses on recent and rapid developments in legislation in areas such as public media, or the status of the civil service, without proper consultation of the constitutional court, which also suffers from many difficulties related to its bias. the aim of this resolution is to reiterate parliament's support for the constructive and productive dialogue launched by the european commission to find solutions in a spirit of cooperation between the european institutions and the polish government.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has made numerous attempts at dialogue, but without success. the situation in poland remains very worrying and the rule of law is in danger. i join the majority of my colleagues in the european parliament in supporting the commission in the procedures it has initiated and expressing my determination that article 7 will be activated if things do not improve; the council has already adopted a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. we also wanted to draw the commission's attention to other reforms underway which threaten to undermine fundamental rights and whose compliance with european law needs to be assessed. the law on public media, the police, the fight against terrorism and other bills that infringe women's rights are in contradiction with poland's commitment to european values. the european commission must guarantee the rule of law and it is its duty to use all means to ensure that it is respected.
in writing. ‒ the change of majority in poland has led to a crisis between the constitutional tribunal and the legitimately elected polish government. this crisis and the conservative options of the new government triggered the intervention of brussels, in defiance of the most basic notions of sovereignty and respect for the verdict of the ballot box. the joint resolution on the situation in poland is a legitimate attack on poland's national sovereignty. this text is unacceptable. we believe that the eu should not interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. the commission and the european parliament appear as the support of the government of the judges under the guise of the rule of law. this pervasive legal system, from which the eu draws a discourse of the standardization of states, is in fact a prison discourse which will one day be opposed to us. i voted against the joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament, which is concerned about the development of democracy and respect for fundamental rights in poland. the question of the separation of powers, the freedom of the press by the muzzling of the media, the abuse of the presumption of innocence under the pretext of the fight against terrorism, to name just a few examples, are all violations of rights that are unacceptable in poland, hungary and many other european countries. the resolution adopted is, however, relatively timid on many points. i particularly regret that the gue/ngl amendments on the right to abortion were not voted on, partly because of the abstention of my social democratic colleagues. on 21 september, the polish parliament is due to debate a new law which, if passed, would effectively ban all voluntary abortion in poland. the european parliament should have spoken out strongly on this point to support polish women the resolution on poland, following hungary, demonstrates the need to put in place a tool that prohibits any regression of fundamental rights within the eu. it's an emergency.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote against the report on relations with tunisia in the current regional context. first of all, i think it is essential to recall that foreign policy remains a competence of the states and not of the union. each state is thus free to pursue its own foreign policy and to manage its relations with third countries. this report, however trivial its proposals, once again calls for eu intervention, which has been bad for the region in recent years.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is essential for the stability of the entire region. it is crucial that the democratic transition in tunisia is consolidated and supported politically and economically. terrorist attacks have had a devastating effect on the economy and unemployment, especially among young people, remains high. the critical nature of the problems affecting tunisia requires support for tunisian institutions, in particular the justice sector and internal security reforms.
in writing. ‒ the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs. moreover, eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the area. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of the so-called moderate islamists, whose action has allowed this oasis of development in a crisis zone to lose almost ten years of economic effort. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the peaceful democratic transition in tunisia is an example in the arab world and its consolidation is crucial for the stability of the whole region and, therefore, for security in europe. we must stabilise the region by means of regular trade with that country.
in writing. ‒ the european union is as inadequate as it is insipid in matters of foreign affairs, so we voted against. we believe that the european union should not intervene in the maghreb any more than it already does, often badly.
in writing. ‒ while i am in favour of european countries stepping up their aid to african and north african countries, i am firmly opposed to any attempt by the eu to intervene in foreign affairs, especially as its initiatives have so far been unsuccessful. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to deepen the cooperation relations between the european union and tunisia in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. on the one hand, the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy, since foreign policy is the responsibility of the member states. on the other hand, it should be recalled that the european union, with the support of western countries, has contributed to politically destabilising this region, which is currently facing internal unrest and the islamist threat. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the peaceful democratic process currently taking place in tunisia is an example of stabilisation in the region. the european union is supporting this process politically and financially. for example, it will provide €500 million in macro-financial assistance to tunisia to support the country's economic and social development. it is true that instability in the region and terrorist attacks are hampering the country's economic recovery process, particularly in the area of tourism. in this context, it is appropriate to start negotiations for a mutually beneficial free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia. many economic, social, political and institutional reforms are still to be undertaken in tunisia. we must support tunisia's democratic transition. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report calls on the european union and the member states to better coordinate their technical and financial resources to support tunisia. the report expresses support for the process of democratisation by emphasising the need to support the people's representative assembly (pra). considering that the union has a role to play in supporting its economic and political partners in their process of development, growth and democratisation, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on eu-tunisia relations in the current regional context in order to encourage tunisia in its democratic transition process while economic difficulties and security challenges remain significant. i am particularly in favour of the european union supporting tunisia in the fight against terrorism, including through europol. like the european union, tunisia is experiencing a significant number of departures to terrorist organisations. we must improve our cooperation in the face of the rise of terrorism in all parts of the world.
in writing. the situation in tunisia warrants the implementation of a genuine marshall plan to support democratic consolidation and economic development. over the past year, the european union has adopted and implemented several initiatives to support the young tunisian democracy. we have adopted an emergency plan to import 70 000 tonnes of olive oil duty-free from tunisia in order to help this key sector of a tunisian economy that has been hit hard by terrorist attacks. the union also released macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million. finally, tunisia and the eu have launched negotiations for a trade agreement to increase trade between their territories. these initiatives are moving in the right direction. the europeans need a stable and prosperous tunisia. this is why we must continue to stand by the tunisians in the long term, intensify economic and cultural exchanges and make tunisia a privileged partner of the union in the mediterranean region.
in writing. ‒ this is a situation report with a proposal to deepen eu-tunisia cooperation in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. it should be remembered that the eu has neither the right nor the right to interfere in the field of foreign affairs. moreover, eu action since the arab spring has proved to be detrimental throughout the area concerned. tunisia is a country in convalescence, unstable since the takeover of power by so-called "moderate" islamists. it is their fault that this oasis of development, in the midst of a crisis zone, has lost ten years of economic effort. the report may seem trivial, but it nevertheless advocates eu intervention, which would be particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence is tunisia. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: in favour of eu intervention which would be particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence includes tunisia.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the area. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of the so-called moderate islamists, whose action has allowed this oasis of development in a crisis zone to lose almost ten years of economic effort. the report is trivial in substance and in its proposals, but it nevertheless advocates a completely inappropriate intervention by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr fabio massimo castaldo. the text calls on the member states and the european commission to provide financial and technical assistance to tunisia. as tunisia is one of the most important countries in the european neighbourhood policy, i believe it is in everyone's interest that the country regains stability and security. i am satisfied with this position, which is in the interest of the tunisians but also of the europeans. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on tunisia because i believe that the eu does not have to play a diplomatic role.
in writing. ‒ this report draws a picture of all the dangers facing the tunisian revolution: a slowing economy, the burden of debt, social frustration, instability, terrorism. five years after the arab spring began in january 2011, real progress on human rights and democracy remains fragile in the face of economic and social stagnation. the report therefore calls on the eu to take strong action to help tunisia and to go beyond some trade facilities or loans linked to imf conditions, which are more than questionable. one of the highlights of this report is precisely the request to convert tunisian debt into development projects, a point which i had also requested in the committee on international trade and which had been the subject of amendments to the aid plan by me. i welcome the fact that the plenary has supported this idea and also calls for the release of ben ali's frozen assets. the funds must be released quickly and thus follow the recent call by economists for a 'marshall' plan for tunisia to support this young democracy and the aspirations of its youth.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context. it is worth recalling the principle position that the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs. moreover, eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the area. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of the so-called moderate islamists, whose action has allowed this oasis of development in a crisis zone to lose almost ten years of economic effort. the report is trivial in its substance and in its proposals, but it nevertheless remains in favour of an eu intervention which would be particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence is tunisia.
in writing. ‒ the european union, although a supranational structure, has no rights in matters of foreign policy. moreover, eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the area. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of the so-called moderate islamists and to whom the eu, by its action, inflicts a blow to its economic efforts. the report is trivial, both in substance and in its proposals, but it nevertheless remains in favour of eu intervention which would be particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence is tunisia. i therefore voted against this report and against the idea that the eu should have a diplomatic role.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs. eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the area. tunisia is a country in the process of reconstruction and the eu, by its action, is preventing the development of its economic efforts and actions. while the report's proposals are not really reprehensible, it nevertheless remains a supporter of eu intervention which is particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence is tunisia.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of the castaldo report, the european parliament has once again demonstrated the value it attaches to the unbreakable partnership between the european union and tunisia, both the cradle and the best symbol of the arab spring. in full accordance with the positions i have always defended as rapporteur of the socialist group for trade relations between the eu and tunisia, the report sets an ambitious course to stabilise the political and economic situation in the country. parliament strongly supports the negotiations on a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement, provided that they involve civil society very closely and are conducted in an atmosphere of maximum transparency. business as usual does not have to be: the agreement must be progressive and asymmetrical so that tunisia retains full freedom to sanction sectors it does not wish to open to liberalisation. the castaldo report also makes two proposals which i fully support: european governments must redouble their efforts to recover assets embezzled under ben ali, and urgent measures must be taken to alleviate the burden of tunisian debt.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, it is necessary to recall too often a basic principle: the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs. moreover, eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the area. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of the so-called moderate islamists and to whom the eu, by its action, inflicts a blow to its economic efforts. the report is trivial in its substance and in its proposals, but it nevertheless remains in favour of an eu intervention which would be particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence is tunisia. i therefore voted against this report and against the idea that the eu should have a diplomatic role.
in writing. ‒ we vote against this progress report, which proposes to deepen cooperation between the eu and tunisia in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. our main objection is that the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs, especially after the decisions taken during the arab spring which had negative consequences. furthermore, tunisia is still an unstable state where the strong presence of so-called moderate islamist political groups has considerably weakened the national economic structure.
in writing. ‒ the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs. moreover, eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the area. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of the so-called moderate islamists, whose action has allowed this oasis of development in a crisis zone to lose almost ten years of economic effort. the report is trivial in its substance and in its proposals, but it nevertheless remains in favour of an eu intervention which would be particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence is tunisia. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on this report on the relations of the european union with tunisia in the current regional context. the text contains provisions requiring the commission to develop circular migration arrangements that can open safe and legal pathways for migrants. i am constantly opposed to the irresponsible policy of migrant quotas, which is a vain appeal to illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ this is a situation report with a proposal to deepen eu-tunisia cooperation in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. as regards the principle, i would point out that the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs. moreover, eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has proved to be deleterious across the area. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of the so-called moderate islamists, whose action has allowed this oasis of development in a crisis zone to lose almost ten years of economic effort. the report is trivial in its substance and in its proposals, but it nevertheless remains in favour of an eu intervention which is particularly damaging to france, whose historic partner is tunisia. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which underlines the importance for the european union of maintaining a special relationship with tunisia, in particular by providing the country with technical and financial resources to enable it to cope with the economic, political and security difficulties it is facing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which identifies the opportunities and challenges of relations between the union and tunisia, in a particularly complex and unstable regional context. the text provides an overview of euro-tunisian relations, including progress on democratic reforms, economic and trade relations, and cooperation on security and migration. in less than a year, parliament has repeatedly reiterated its willingness to step up and increase its support for tunisia, by adopting exceptional measures or granting new macro-financial assistance. five years after the events of the arab spring, tunisia is emerging as the only successful transition model and a source of hope for democrats around the world. in this context, the union must provide unwavering support to tunisia and meet the requirements of the privileged partnership which binds us. it is essential that the union extends the areas of cooperation and deepens those which already exist. there are many challenges that could hinder this process. terrorism and economic and social imbalances are two examples. these challenges require joint responses, in the context of ever closer cooperation between the union and tunisia.
in writing. ‒ this is a situation report with a proposal to deepen eu-tunisia cooperation in the framework of the neighbourhood policy. it is worth recalling a principled position, namely that the eu has no rights in the field of foreign affairs. moreover, eu action since the so-called 'arab spring' has been deleterious throughout the region. tunisia is a country in recovery, not yet stabilized after the takeover of a so-called moderate islamic government whose action has allowed this oasis of development in a crisis zone to lose about ten years of economic effort. the report is trivial in its substance and in its proposals, but it nevertheless remains in favour of an eu intervention which would be particularly damaging to france, whose natural zone of influence is tunisia. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, has repeatedly stated his intention to combat social dumping. his speech is all the more puzzling in view of the fact that the european union is largely responsible for this situation. the aim of this report on social dumping is to fill the legislative and regulatory gaps which favour the development of unfair competition in the internal market. the solutions presented are totally unacceptable: control and inspection of work at european level, a desire to unify social security systems and a series of harmonizations at all levels. i was, of course, opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on social dumping in the european union. it is essential to stress that undeclared work, like sham selfemployment, can lead to distortions of competition, causing long-term damage to social security systems. this is both a source of increased precarious employment and a deterioration in the level of protection afforded to workers: the fight against these abuses is essential to safeguarding free movement within the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the fight against social dumping is one of the major promises made by jean-claude juncker. on 15 july 2014, he promised to 'fight social dumping' during the current parliamentary term, a wish he reiterated in his state of the union address in 2015. the report's stated aim is to fill the legislative and regulatory gaps which are fostering the development of unfair competition in the internal market. the solution is simple: no more europe! the issue of the revision of the 'posted workers' directive is overlooked as it will be the subject of a separate report. on the whole, although it is paved with good intentions, it is nonetheless as european as possible and so full of good feelings that it loses all credibility. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against social dumping is one of the major promises made by jean-claude juncker. on 15 july 2014, he promised to 'fight social dumping' during the current parliamentary term, a wish he reiterated in his state of the union address in 2015. social competence remains one of the exclusive competences of the member states, which is why there are today wide differences between the social rights and social obligations of the countries. the rapporteur and the eu believe that this asymmetry is an obstacle to the harmonisation of living and working conditions in the eu. worse, this situation leads to a weakening of social standards, a deterioration of the rights of all employees and a reduction in the financial resources needed for the various social protection systems. unfortunately, the solutions advocated by the balas report do not seem to us to be capable of seriously combating this scourge, as they are straight out of the euro-federalist ideological matrix, in particular the crazy idea of creating a european agency of labour inspectors. we have voted against the text, which we consider to be insufficient and laden with misinformation.
in writing. ‒ while i am in favour of the living standards of the people in the poorest eu countries reaching those of the developed countries fairly quickly, i deny that the eu has any competence in this matter. you know, undermining sovereignty will never bring prosperity. these good utopian intentions actually mask sinister objective goods. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to combat social dumping within the european union by advocating the harmonisation of social protection systems and social rights in the member states. the upward convergence of wages which they wish to see is an illusion in a system of general free trade. companies move to member states with relaxed labour laws. in addition, the european directive on the posting of workers, which allows companies to relocate to the eu by hiring eastern european workers who are underpaid and subject to the social security contributions of their country of origin, exacerbates competition between employees in different member states. the person with the lowest wage demand in terms of working time and pay will therefore be given the job. in this report, they seem to attack the effects of the causes they cherish. they deplore the fraud against posted workers, who are the authors of this infamous directive, which we propose to abolish. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ we have finally voted on a text which clearly defines the term social dumping. we must be able to fight together within the union against unfair social competition. our fellow citizens are the first victims of social dumping. to solve this problem we must bring the social policies of the member states together. this convergence must be upwards. it is inconceivable that the most advanced social systems should be undermined in the process. we also expect a revision of the posting of workers directive, which was already proposed by the european commission in march 2016, to be adopted very soon. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on social dumping.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report deals with the principle of social dumping in the european union. the rapporteur considers that social dumping is an illegal practice, which is responsible for unfair competition between european workers. the report says that there is a need to establish clear conditions applicable to all workers in all eu member states. i voted in favour of the report in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on social dumping in the european union. i think it is necessary for the european parliament to make its recommendations in order to prevent abusive practices and social dumping, which take advantage of the weaknesses of european legislation and particularly harm certain sectors of our economies. we must do everything we can to ensure fair competition in europe and to this end the member states should in particular strengthen labour inspection structures.
in writing. ‒ i have been keen to support this report on social dumping in the european union. the text proposes for the first time a definition of social dumping, which will serve as a basis for future negotiations in this field. the text also refers to an assessment of the economic and social impact of the differential in social security contributions between the member states, which i find particularly interesting and important. finally, i am pleased that initiatives are being taken to protect the internal market by combating unfair practices and social fraud. i believe that it is essential to work towards the harmonization of social policies in the union if we are to make progress in building a social europe.
in writing. ‒ the flagrant lack of social harmonisation has been endangering the european project for too long. the report by my colleague, mr guillaume balas, crystallizes the balance of power on key issues such as the introduction of a 60% threshold of the national average wage as a reference for setting the minimum wage in the member states, the fight against bogus self-employment and a new proposal for a revision of the directive on posting. this is an essential report, which lays down the principle of social convergence upwards, which must now be followed up.
in writing. ‒ president juncker promised on 15 july 2014 to 'fight social dumping' during the current parliamentary term, a wish which he reiterated in his state of the union address in 2015. the aim of this text is to fill the legal gaps which encourage unfair competition between member states. the solutions envisaged are the creation of a pan-european labour inspectorate, the creation of a single digital work document and the revision of the directive on the posting of workers. we cannot support this text, which advocates the maintenance of the fundamental principles of the european union (in particular the free movement of workers) even though they are the source of social dumping. the enf group also proposed an alternative resolution, recalling the principle of state sovereignty against any attempt at pan-european harmonisation. i voted against the text, of course.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the enf group has prepared an alternative resolution which recalls the illogic of the eu's strategy of wanting to enlarge at all costs, by giving itself more and more responsibilities.
in writing. - you'll never get away with this! mr balas' report deals with a real problem: unfair competition based on abuse, circumvention or breach of the rules. however, the red line is drawn in recital b: in no case can the free movement of workers, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services be called into question. the direct causes of the dumping explosion are: european legislation (in particular the 'services' and 'posting' directives), which puts european workers in fierce competition with one another; enlargement to countries where living standards and wages are much lower than in western europe; the unbridled race to cost competitiveness due to globalisation. the national minimum wage you propose would probably improve some individual situations, both at the margins and within the same country, but it would not change the wage differentials between countries. your other proposals are of the same order. it is like using a fresh washcloth to bring down the fever of a sepsis patient!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it defines for the first time the concept of social dumping and recalls the principle of 'equal work, equal pay', which should guide the next revision of the legislation on posted workers. it is crucial that europe empowers itself to restore fairness and to fight effectively against social dumping, which threatens our jobs and our businesses, particularly in the construction and transport sectors. social europe must be a response to the growing euroscepticism among our citizens.
in writing. faced with a deregulated market that pits workers against each other and nations against each other, europe must act. that is why i enthusiastically supported the report by my colleague, mr guillaume balas, to affirm my desire for social progress. this requires a number of concrete measures: combating so-called 'letterbox' companies by ensuring that companies established in a member state of the union are genuinely active; establish a blacklist of companies; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the rules. to set a threshold of 60% of the national average wage as a reference for setting the minimum wage in the member states; extend joint and several liability across the subcontracting chain; to provide the possibility for the competent authorities to suspend the provision of services in the event of serious breaches of the legislation on the posting of workers; the commission has already taken account of the new proposal for a revision of the secondment directive. it is now up to the european commission and the heads of state to take their responsibilities to put an end to social dumping.
in writing. ‒ the truth about the posting of foreign workers must be established. contrary to popular belief, it costs a french employer as much or more to recruit a posted worker than a local worker. the reason is simple: the smic and collective agreements also apply to the posted worker, but the posting allowance and the various expenses incurred by the posted worker (travel, accommodation, food) must be added. it is not the principle of secondment that is problematic and is welcome when an employer cannot find a local worker to carry out certain tasks - harvesting grapes, harvesting in agriculture - but the exploitation by unscrupulous companies of the grey areas of european legislation. the report on social dumping which i support makes it possible to recall that any european measure or legislation which creates unfair competition between member states and which affects employment and the quality of employment in a country is unacceptable. our priority is to protect our companies and arm them against global competition. the revision of the directive on the posting of workers, which has already been delayed, is an absolute necessity in order to combat, for example, 'mailbox' companies.
in writing. ‒ the stated aim of this report is to fill the legislative and regulatory gaps which are fostering the development of unfair competition in the internal market. the solution is simple: 'more eu!' on the whole, while this report is paved with good intentions, it is only more euro-beat, and so full of good feelings that it loses all political credibility. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social dumping in the european union. if it is not a legislative report, the text at least has the merit of clearly defining what social dumping is, whereas a number of countries, particularly in the east, dispute its very existence. this text has set the tone for the debate which will take place in the coming months on the revision of the directive on posted workers, which should help to reduce abuses and combat social dumping. so i'm glad he was adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not really have the will to fight social dumping. the proof is that he accepts the system of 'posted workers'!
in writing. ‒ the report on the fight against social dumping took as a starting point the many abuses found in the transport and construction sectors and proposed solutions to ensure that national labour rights are respected, in particular by tackling the system of posted workers. it was already too much for the eastern countries and the liberals, who sought to hijack the report of this european system of circumvention of national labour rights. however, they were unable to empty it. the report proposes three areas of action to tackle this problem: strengthening controls between and by member states; closing regulatory gaps to ensure that labour law is respected at all levels (european and national); and promoting equal treatment and non-discrimination between workers. in addition to these guidelines, it proposes three concrete measures: the creation of a european road transport agency to monitor the abuses in this sector, which is heavily affected by social dumping; the establishment of a blacklist preventing fraudulent companies from accessing certain markets; the introduction of a minimum wage equivalent to at least 60% of the national average wage. i have of course supported these proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on social dumping in the european union. the report's stated aim is to close the legislative and regulatory loopholes which encourage the development of unfair competition within the internal market. the solution is simple: no more europe! the proposed solutions range from the creation of a european labour inspectorate to the recording of work on a single digital document, to the revision of the posted workers directive and better coordination of social security systems. the enl group has prepared an alternative motion which recalls the illogic of the union's strategy of wanting to expand at all costs, giving itself more and more responsibilities, trampling on the sovereignty of the member states, all to promote a deadly free movement and too often irregular immigration. we insist on the failure of the internal market and ask the commission to stop any attempt to coordinate national wage-setting or collective bargaining mechanisms. we also ask that it should enable the member states to combat the phenomenon of foreign temporary agency work and to combat abuses linked to the use of unreasonable subcontracting.
in writing. - hell is paved with good intentions, says the old adage. this text is a perfect illustration of this. the europeanist presentation and the excess of 'good feelings' that flow from this text undermine and discredit it. in the face of this report, our group, the enl, has tabled a more critical alternative resolution. we denounce the eu's enlargement strategy, coupled with its desire to interfere more and more in the affairs of states in order to promote free movement and immigration. we also note the failure of the internal market and call on the all-powerful commission to stop any attempt to coordinate national wage-setting or collective bargaining mechanisms. we also want it to enable the member states to combat the phenomenon of temporary foreign agencies and to combat abuses linked to the use of unreasonable subcontracting. i voted against mr balas' report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text, despite the good intentions behind it, is an attempt to give the eu more and more responsibilities and to take away a little more sovereignty from the member states. it promotes free movement and too often illegal immigration, which we oppose. the internal market is a failure and we urge the commission to stop any attempt to coordinate national wage-setting or collective bargaining mechanisms. we also support the fact that it should enable the member states to combat the phenomenon of foreign temporary agency work and to combat abuses linked to the use of unreasonable subcontracting.
in writing. ‒ the european union has allowed two fractures to develop in the single market: shameless fiscal dumping and social dumping, which reduces working conditions, encourages infringements of social rights and inevitably increases tensions between national workers. that is why my colleague guillaume balas' report was essential to the debate: through it the european parliament clearly expresses its determination to counteract all anti-social and competition practices from below. convergence from above is assumed, with minimum wages at 60% of the national average wage; the responsibility of companies, when assemblies are complex, is reinforced with joint and joint responsibility along the whole chain of subcontracting, the employee disguised as self-employed is also covered. finally, safety nets, such as suspension of activities or prohibition from responding to public procurement, are provided for in cases of serious breaches of social labour legislation. these milestones, achieved through firm negotiation with the right-wing groups, allow us to approach the revision of the posting of workers directive with ambition. i voted for this report without reservation.
in writing. ‒ on the whole, although this report is well-intentioned, it is nonetheless europe-oriented and discredited by too much good feeling. the enf group has prepared an alternative resolution which recalls the illogic of the eu's strategy of wanting to enlarge at all costs, giving itself more and more responsibilities, trampling on the sovereignty of the member states, in order to promote a deadly free movement and unsustainable immigration. we insist on the failure of the internal market and urge the commission to stop any attempt to coordinate national wage-setting or collective bargaining mechanisms. we also ask that it should enable the member states to combat the phenomenon of foreign temporary agency work and to combat abuses linked to the use of unreasonable subcontracting. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to this report, which proposes to close the legislative and regulatory gaps that are fostering the development of unfair competition in the internal market. this is a good intention, but one which is met with a very bad solution: more europe. the report therefore calls for the establishment of a european labour inspectorate, a 'single digital document' for the registration of work, and better coordination of social security systems. the idea is therefore to further strengthen the eu's prerogatives over the member states, to give it more responsibilities and, ultimately, to further reduce the sovereignty of the states. of course, we cannot support such proposals.
in writing. ‒ this report, although full of good intentions, is nevertheless as european as possible and so full of good feelings that it loses all credibility. the problem of social dumping in the union is structural and cannot be solved by a few measures. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on social dumping in the european union. this has no place in the european single market and that is why we must work to put an end to it. i have supported in particular the provisions requiring companies to have a real registered office and all those which pave the way for the harmonisation of legislation in the economic field (the establishment of a european transport agency to enforce european road transport legislation, as already exists for aviation and rail).
in writing. ‒ the stated aim of this report is to fill the legislative and regulatory gaps which are fostering the development of unfair competition in the internal market. the solution is simple: no more europe! the proposed solutions range from strengthening controls and inspections (with the creation of a european labour inspectorate) to recording work on a single digital document (again at european level), to revising the posted workers directive and better coordinating social security systems (see 'coming soon: a european social security system'). all this with the aim of achieving the 'necessary [...] social convergence in the european union'. it should be noted that the issue of the revision of the 'posted workers' directive is overlooked as it will be the subject of a separate report. on the whole, although it is paved with good intentions, it is nevertheless as european as possible and so full of good feelings that it loses all credibility. i therefore vote against this text and support the alternative proposal put forward by my colleagues in the enf group, which is much more respectful of the sovereignty of the states and therefore of democracy and social protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the process of building a social europe. europe can only be strong if the member states are committed to social harmonisation. this text deals specifically with social dumping in the european union, a practice which severely affects the internal market. some european companies are cutting costs illegally, leading to discrimination and unfair competition within the european union itself. above all, it is the workers who are the main victims of these abuses, their working conditions often being difficult to control and verify. national authorities are therefore invited to cooperate more closely in combating such practices and, as an example, so-called 'letterbox' companies (responsible for infringements of european social law) must be clearly identified in order to be sanctioned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr guillaume balas on social dumping in the european union. with this report, the european parliament is responding to the european citizens' call for a social europe. the report makes concrete proposals to combat social dumping, such as the establishment of a blacklist of companies responsible for serious breaches of labour law (including letterbox companies) and temporarily excluded from public procurement and eu funds. it prioritised the fight for gender equality and urged the commission to take action to help women affected by social dumping. the report also sets the first milestones for 'upward social convergence' by recommending the introduction of a threshold of 60% of the national average wage as a reference for setting the minimum wage in the member states. by proposing to remedy distortions of competition in the internal market and to improve the level of protection of workers, it can help to restore citizens' confidence in the european project.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the situation and proposes ways of combating social dumping in the union. the increase in abusive practices and the increasing use of social dumping are damaging the competitiveness of companies, especially smes, weakening confidence in european integration and, above all, infringing the rights of european workers. this situation cannot continue! europe must fight against social dumping. the text calls for increased controls and greater coordination between and by the member states. improving crossborder cooperation between inspection services and drawing up a list of companies at european level that engage in social dumping are measures that will make it possible to combat abusive practices effectively and offer greater protection to our companies that are victims of market distortions. europe must be more social and protect businesses and workers from unfair practices within its own internal market. with this in mind, the report calls for the establishment of a pillar of social rights to enable social convergence upwards and the protection of workers.
in writing. ‒ after several months of intensive work and negotiations to push the right wing of the european parliament into its retrenchment, the adoption by a large majority of my french socialist colleague guillaume balas' report is a magnificent victory. this own-initiative report is a signal to the european commission, which is struggling to come up with ambitious proposals to combat social dumping. the european parliament has demonstrated that a majority of its members support increased social convergence. the citizens of europe have been waiting for it for too long. the responsibility now lies with the commission and the member states, who cannot ignore this momentum. if the commission were to change the test tomorrow, it would ensure that companies established in the union actually have a business, a blacklist of companies responsible for serious breaches of social and labour law would be set up, a minimum wage would be set at 60% of the national average wage, joint and several liability for the chain of subcontracting would be extended in the case of posting workers and posting declarations would be registered in a european register to facilitate consultation and coordination between member states.
in writing. ‒ the fight against social dumping is one of the major promises made by jean-claude juncker. however, social responsibility remains one of the exclusive competences of the member states, which is why there are today wide differences between the social rights and social obligations of the countries. the rapporteur believes that this asymmetry is an obstacle to the harmonisation of living and working conditions in the eu and leads to a weakening of social standards. the report's stated aim is to fill the legislative and regulatory gaps which are fostering the development of unfair competition in the internal market. the proposed solutions range from strengthening controls and inspections to revising the 'posted workers' directive and better coordinating social security systems. even if it is paved with good intentions, this text is nonetheless as european as possible, and so full of good feelings that it loses all credibility. the enf group tabled an alternative resolution stressing the failure of the internal market and calling on the commission to stop any attempt to coordinate national wage-setting mechanisms. we also ask that it should allow member states to combat the phenomenon of foreign temporary agency work. i voted against this report.
in writing. this report, adopted by a very large majority in the european parliament, is a welcome step forward in a european union undermined by social dumping, competition between employees in different countries and the decline in social rights. it links social and fiscal dumping, puts the european social charter on the map and advocates social convergence from above, the objective of a minimum wage in each country based on at least 60% of the average wage, finally binding rules and effective controls to combat the exploitation of posted workers, deterrent sanctions against companies responsible for serious violations of social legislation, in particular that relating to posted workers, equal pay between national workers and posted workers in similar situations. even if it is a report with no legislative scope, it is, if not good news, at least a point of reference. now we have to put it into practice, as the rapporteur has rightly said.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the socialist group played a key role. we will do our utmost to reach agreement on the rules on informing retail investors because such information is essential in the current context. the rts must be changed so that the issuers of investment products are obliged to play their cards right and finally acknowledge all the risks they take when selling to lay investors. the regulation is to enter into force on 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 requires the initiators of insurance-based retail investment products (a €10 trillion market in europe) to prepare key information documents for these products. the european supervisory authorities have been asked to develop regulatory technical standards on the presentation and content of key information documents. the commission therefore submitted a delegated act on 30 june 2016 containing all the elements to be presented in the key information documents. the delegated act was strongly criticised by all financial market participants and investor associations from the time of its publication. these new key information documents are criticised for being opaque and misleading, especially in relation to the presentation of performance and its calculation. in addition, the formulas used on the spreadsheet are not realistic enough and do not place enough emphasis on the risks of loss for the investor, and the presentation of costs is based on overly favourable assumptions. i therefore voted in favour of the objection tabled, which calls on the commission to introduce new technical standards and to postpone the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 (priip regulation) requires the originators of insurance-based retail packaged investment products (priips) (a €10 trillion market in europe) to prepare key information documents (kids) for these products before they are made available to retail investors. a delegated act proposing regulatory technical standards (rts) on the presentation and content of kids has been submitted by the commission. these standards are often criticized, but they leave a lot of room for subjectivity. we voted in favour of the objection put forward by pervenche berès, asking the commission to introduce new technical standards and to postpone the entry into force of the regulation. it is worth noting that this is the first time in the history of the european union that the european parliament has rejected regulatory technical standards (rts).
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the regulation to better protect investors from sellers of packaged investment products. so i'm in favour of it. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 requires the initiators of insurance-based retail investment products (priips) to prepare key information documents for these products before they are made available to retail investors. the esas have been asked to develop regulatory technical standards (rts) on the presentation and content of these documents. the delegated act presented by the commission in june 2016 containing all the elements to be presented in the key information documents has been strongly criticised by all financial market participants. these new key information documents are criticised for being opaque and misleading, especially in relation to the presentation of performance and its calculation. in fact, past performance is suppressed in favour of future performance scenarios built around 3 assumptions (unfavourable, moderate, favourable) which leave a lot of room for subjectivity. that is why i voted in favour of the objection tabled by pervenche berès, who asks the commission to introduce new technical standards and to postpone the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 requires the initiators of retail packaged and insurance-based investment products (priips) (a €10 trillion market in europe) to prepare key information documents (kids) for these products before they are made available to retail investors. the next step is to regulate the technical standards for kids. to that end, the european commission presented a delegated act on the elements to be presented in the kids as from 1 january 2017. however, the kids as presented are opaque and misleading. we therefore ask the commission to present new technical standards and to postpone the entry into force of the regulation. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: in this way we support the objection put forward by pervenche berès, who asks the commission to present new technical standards and to postpone the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection put forward by pervenche berès, who asks the commission to introduce new technical standards and to postpone the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pervenche berès objecting to the european commission's draft technical measures on the information that a retail investor can use to compare certain financial products. the aim of such measures should be to improve information for savers on their life insurance accounts. this rejection must lead to a new commission proposal which will, i hope, make it possible to better protect consumers. i believe that a transparent system is fundamental to a healthy and efficient economy, and i therefore welcome the vote of parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this very technical resolution because it has the merit of blocking some unfortunate initiatives of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for retail and insurance-based investment products (priips). the regulation requires the originators of these products, which represent a €10 trillion market in europe, to prepare 'key information documents' (kids) before they are made available to retail investors. the esas have been requested to develop regulatory technical standards (rts) on the presentation and content of the kids. the commission therefore submitted a delegated act containing all the elements to be submitted. the delegated act was strongly criticised by all financial market participants and investor associations. in particular, these kids are criticised for being opaque and misleading, especially in relation to the presentation of performance and its calculation. past performance is suppressed in favour of future performance scenarios built around 3 hypotheses (unfavourable, moderate, favourable) which leave a lot of room for subjectivity and do not take into account past crises.
in writing. ‒ objection to the technical standards presented by the commission under the priip regulation on kids available to retail investors for insurance-based retail packaged investment products (priips). these standards remove references to past performance of products in favour of subjective predictions of future performance. moreover, the formulae used on the plaque are not sufficiently pessimistic and do not sufficiently emphasise the risks of loss for the investor. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. this text is an objection to the technical standards presented by the commission in the framework of the priip regulation on kids available to retail investors for insurance-based retail packaged investment products (priips). these standards remove references to past performance of products in favour of subjective predictions of future performance. in addition, the formulas used on the plaque do not sufficiently emphasise the risk of loss for the investor, which we consider to be detrimental.
in writing. ‒ objection to the technical standards presented by the commission under the priip regulation on kids available to retail investors for insurance-based retail packaged investment products (priips). these standards remove references to past performance of products in favour of subjective predictions of future performance. moreover, the formulae used on the plaque are not sufficiently pessimistic and do not sufficiently emphasise the risks of loss for the investor. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 (priip regulation) requires the originators of insurance-based retail packaged investment products (priips) (a €10 trillion market in europe) to prepare key information documents (kids) for these products before they are made available to retail investors. this objection, which was voted unanimously in committee, criticised these new kids for being opaque and misleading, especially with regard to the presentation of performance and its calculation. past performance is suppressed in favour of future performance scenarios built around 3 hypotheses (unfavourable, moderate, favourable) which leave a lot of room for subjectivity and do not take into account past crises. the presence of past statistics is the only way to highlight the likely gains and losses in an objective way. we therefore support the objection put forward by pervenche berès, who asks the commission to introduce new technical standards and to delay the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i think that objection is well founded: the delegated act presented by the commission has been the subject of quite justified criticism. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the text which complements the regulation on key information documents on insurance-based retail investment products. this text, which was intended in particular to improve information for savers, has not achieved its objectives and has even introduced a more complicated system. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 (priip regulation) requires the originators of insurance-based retail packaged investment products (priips) (a €10 trillion market in europe) to prepare key information documents (kids) for these products before they are made available to retail investors. these new kids are criticised for being opaque and misleading, especially in relation to the presentation of performance and its calculation. past performance is suppressed in favour of future performance scenarios built around 3 hypotheses (unfavourable, moderate, favourable) which leave a lot of room for subjectivity and do not take into account past crises. the presence of past statistics is the only way to highlight the likely gains and losses in an objective way. in addition, the formulas used on the spreadsheet are not pessimistic enough and do not place enough emphasis on the risks of loss for the investor, and the presentation of costs is based on overly favourable assumptions. i therefore support the objection put forward by pervenche berès, who asks the commission to introduce new technical standards and to delay the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the european commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for retail and insurance-based investment products (priips). the purpose of this text is to improve information for savers, particularly as regards unit of account charges in life insurance schemes.
in writing. ‒ the priip regulation requires the originator of insurance-based retail investment products to prepare key information documents (kids) for these products before they are made available to retail investors. the esas have been requested to develop regulatory technical standards (rts) on the presentation and content of the kids, including methods for calculating and presenting the risks, remuneration and costs to be included in the kids. the commission therefore submitted a delegated act on 30 june 2016 containing all the elements to be presented in the kids. the delegated act was strongly criticised by all financial market participants and investor associations from the time of its publication. these new kids are criticised for being opaque and misleading, especially in relation to the presentation of performance and its calculation. i therefore supported the objection raised by pervenche berès, who asks the commission to introduce new technical standards and to postpone the entry into force of the regulation.
- what a disappointment! 602 votes to reject the commission's draft regulation which imposed new technical standards and a new timetable on the financial sector marketing savings products to prepare standardised (and therefore supposedly neutral) key information documents for their customers for each product offered. apart from the fact that banks, funds and insurers did not have the necessary time to draw up such documents, the question of their reliability and the control of their content was not resolved at all. leaving the judgement of both the risks and the possible future performance of their products to the traders alone puts customers in a situation of potential abuse. it is the meaning of my vote to recall it.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, unfortunately we are once again talking about the profound crisis of competitiveness and lack of investment in our industry in europe. the closures of the two caterpillar sites on the one hand and of alstom on the other are symptomatic of the industrial depression we are experiencing in europe. there are more closures than new industrial enterprises in europe. it's an alarming signal and that's what's causing and generating a lot of anxiety and anger. and yet, the government was aware of the plight of these sites and unfortunately these government officials are flocking in at the last minute, looking for a rescue plan in a hurry. the basic problem is the glaring lack of competitiveness of our companies and also the lack of will on the part of some member states to create the right environment. in reality, firms need to constantly restructure themselves to adapt to change, but in order to develop, they must benefit from a favourable fiscal and social environment that is not paralysed by either. in the case of alstom, which i particularly deplore, it seems to me dangerous for a government to propose to another french company which is in debt trouble - sncf - to take over the urgent orders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in reality, what europe lacks is anticipation. we are constantly talking about industrial policy, but who is proposing real long-term industrial development strategies for our european companies? this is what is lacking most and, unfortunately, it is the workers who are paying the price for the inaction of certain governments in the face of the structural reforms that need to be carried out and the social dumping that unfortunately exists in europe. the closures of these sites are always a difficult time for employees. that is why it is essential to support them, as you have said, madam commissioner, in the defence of their social rights. above all, what our european industry needs is stability, fiscal stability, legislative stability, it needs to feel encouraged by long-term strategies.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr lamberts, i listened to you with great interest. before we became mps, a number of us, including the presidents of the major public banks, were calling for a real reinvestment plan using the monetary facilities of the central bank, 1 trillion invested in sustainable development and the green economy. why don't you take that idea back? on the other hand, is not european protectionism necessary, at least for reciprocity in openness?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the case of alstom's belfort plant, which we still hope will have a more favourable outcome than the case of the steelworks at gandrange and florange, is emblematic of the submission of our leaders to the dictates of the shareholders and the pension funds. what a symbol this factory in belfort is! opened in 1879, it was from this factory that the first prototype of our high-speed train, our now famous tgv, which the world envies us, was produced in 1971, a factory that employed up to 9 000 employees. today, almost all jobs are in the service sector, while the dramatic destruction of industrial employment continues: last year alone, more than 33 000 jobs were destroyed in our french industries. without exonerating our national leaders of their responsibilities, we must recognize that it is the european union which is imposing on us the financialisation of our economies and which, in the name of allegedly free and undistorted competition, forbids us all protectionism, even if it is european. it is also the european union which, claiming to fight against monopolies, imposes the separation between network activity and transport activity in the railway sector. we're cutting our businesses down, branch by branch, to sell them to their competitors. the announcement of the closure of the belfort plant is the logical follow-up to alstom's dismantling with the sale in 2014 of its energy branch to the american general electrics. the challenge, beyond safeguarding our industrial jobs, is to maintain the skills and innovation clusters that depend on production sites. this is why it is imperative for the public authorities to help industrial sites which are temporarily underproducing, especially when it comes to national flagships. but it is still necessary for our ministers to work on their files, rather than focusing on their career plans. so it's no wonder that banker macron didn't see it coming. between two photo sessions for the people press, the minister for economic affairs refused to listen to the appeals for help from alstom executives and employees. macron had given his word: "zero redundancies" and now 2,000 jobs are at risk, including almost 500 in belfort. today, more than ever, our industry needs a strategic state which sets long-term objectives and really sets itself the means to achieve them.
madam president, i am glad that parliament has been responsive to the situation at the caterpillar and alstom industrial sites in gosselies and belfort. with this debate we are showing that this is not a franco-belgian debate but a european issue, the issue of the establishment of a real european industrial policy. two months ago, in this same house, we adopted a resolution calling on the commission to give greater support to the european rail industry and to use the full potential of european funds and the juncker plan to support public procurement. five months ago we were discussing the techniques of the fourth railway package, which was strongly encouraged by the industrialists in the sector, including alstom, because it allowed for the harmonization of rules and products within the union. the votes of the european parliament must be heard by the citizens, the institutions and also by the businesses. we have a huge challenge to face, namely the protection of our industry against increasingly harsh and sometimes unfair international competition. the commission must set the rules and limit the entry into our market of foreign groups which are massively subsidized and are harming our industry. but the debate also reflects the failure of a fiscal policy that curbs public investment. we need more flexibility if we are to be able to support our industry, and this is a fundamental issue. finally, this debate is also, and above all, a debate on the defence of women, men and entire families who are directly affected. and if governments can and do act, industrial leaders must also take their responsibilities to take account of the human factor rather than always privileging the logic of profitability.
madam president, like all the other members here, i hope that these two companies will find a positive solution and, in particular, that alstom will be able to remain at the belfort site with a sufficient order book. it is necessary to face the facts: there are, for these two companies, responsibilities - in any case for alstom - broadly shared. france has a great responsibility. for more than a decade, we have been hearing promises repeated in every direction, without any coherence, without any vision, and from this point of view there is a national responsibility. europe also has a share of responsibility. we have been faced for many years with a total lack of economic, industrial and political leadership on these issues. it's really time that changed. it's time to act. we must give signs, show that europe is finally determined to pursue an economic and industrial policy. we must act now to avoid further suffering. i propose that we at least act in a few directions, a strong symbol of which would be that all the heads of state and government are finally advocating a change or addition to the mandate of the ecb, that the ecb is in charge not only of growth issues but also of the vital issue of full employment. this would be a very positive political signal. the commission must realise that it must rethink the rules of competition. competition today is global. yes, we will make great european champions and, really, the commission must not prevent this kind of thing, as it may have done in the past. thirdly, we need a real investment plan, a power 10 investment plan, which is focused on all the future and research sectors and which is based on european savings and, why not, as gérard deprez said earlier, an industrial investment fund. finally, we need to defend our business interests. we are no more stupid or incompetent than the americans. the u.s. congress defends the economic interests of the american people. i expect the european institutions to defend the economic interests of europeans and, in particular, to refuse to give china the status of a market economy.
madam president, i do not think that we should approach our debate by the social treatment of deindustrialisation, which, as i have heard, is the exact opposite of a european policy of reindustrialisation. we have to ask the right questions, for example, how can we accept that caterpillard is laying off employees at this time, when its shareholders are going to receive one billion four hundred million euros? how can alstom have no future when passenger and freight transport needs to be developed, especially with the locomotives and trains of tomorrow which will be part of the environmental transition? so, as has been said, the money from the juncker plan, the monetary creation of the central bank 80 billion a month , the european investment bank are used for the investments of tomorrow for these two companies. the funds needed to revive productive investment and employment, training at caterpillard, and the development of intra-european cooperation for railway companies, instead of competition, must be made available. why not invent the equivalent of an airbus for the railway industry? we must protect our businesses and jobs as other countries do, including the united states. finally, we must give employees a say and a say in the direction and management of their enterprises.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is incredible that we meet regularly in this house to discuss industrial matters. every time, the same thing is found: austerity has completely locked down the public order and the ability of the states both to relocate the economy, to create jobs, to create the infrastructure that is necessary for society, as well as for the economy. every time there is the same debate about the absence of a european industrial policy which is terribly lacking and about the need for a european industrial policy because there are national policies which are terribly lacking. alstom in france is now the ball of hypocrites, between alstom management, which is deliberately creating a scandal to ensure the intervention of the state, and the state, which pretends to discover a situation. in 2007, during the grenelle for the environment in france, we agreed to increase rail freight from 14 to 25%. freight by rail in france has been steadily declining. a few years ago, mrs royal, the environment minister, killed the eco-tax, the €1 billion a year that also helped finance sustainable development infrastructure, tramway infrastructure. we are basically in a situation today where what is at stake is a european industrial policy, a major investment plan for the sustainable city with trams, a major plan for rail freight which is an efficient and ecological transport, and then, to hand over responsibility to the states. it is intolerable that we do not make more rail freight, it is intolerable that we do not switch from road to rail, it is intolerable that we do not make trams in our cities, at a time when they are no longer breathable.
madam president, commissioner, mr jadot, i am rather surprised that you are complaining about economic austerity, but you are absolutely determined to keep the euro as the single currency. there's a contradiction there to me. once again, the caterpillar and alstom cases prove the harmfulness of the european ultra-liberal economic model, which generates social desolation. the closure of the historic site of our industrial flagship alstom in belfort has aggravated the deindustrialisation of france over the last 25 years. when alstom was dismantled, following the sale of its energy division in 2014 to the american general electric, the pro-european politicians of umps promised great things for the future. the employees are seeing the result today. with your unfair competition rules, you let our strategic companies be bought by private, publicly traded foreign groups. with the european union, it is the great economic deal. to weaken states, you commit economic crimes against citizens. your only euro-globalist logic is to serve the big international investors at the expense of the nations. only a model of national economic patriotism with a long-term strategic vision, as proposed by the national front in france, can re-industrialize france.
madam president, commissioner, it is important for me to mention the case of alstom, whose 480 jobs are threatened in belfort, in my constituency. the reasons for this social threat are many, and one of them is the french government's challenge to a 30-train contract with the group. by feigning surprise, france is showing a lack of vision, and the new promises, which many consider artificial, must not undress pierre to dress paul and pit the sites of belfort and reichshoffen against each other. however, alstom's difficulties are also symptomatic of a european industrial policy which has fallen short of expectations, far short of the 20% of gdp target. the european parliament voted last june a resolution on the competitiveness of the railway industry. where are we? commissioner, will the commission initiate a structured dialogue with the sector? the railway industry represents 400 000 jobs at european level. unfortunately, our companies too often have to fight against ultra-protected, highly subsidized competitors, and work in countries that impose stringent location rules. the european commission must defend access to public procurement in its negotiations with china, japan and the united states. if so, stop being naive and protect the european market better with a reciprocity instrument for public procurement! we'll support you. we must not let the railways go down like other industries. let us finally adopt an ambitious industrial policy.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, you are a liberal, i am a socialist, you are a determined defender of free and undistorted competition, and i congratulate you, thank you. we are all drugged, intoxicated by these machines and yet we are glad that you have so severely condemned this company which in a certain way amuses us, attracts us, drugs us and then deceives us. you've restored order, but you still have a long way to go. and i see that today in ireland things are finally moving. the minister of finance has just removed a tax advantage for vulture funds in the field of real estate loans. would he distrust you? you have advanced economic thought because you have put in writing what i said to commissioner charlie mccreevy many years ago. a tax advantage is state aid when it is granted under conditions which distort competition, such as the scheme applied to apple in ireland. but we must go further and, commissioner, you have a dossier on your desk to which i attach great importance. he's probably the next one. it is the case of mcdonald's, in which you will not only be able to shake up the tax rules, but also to re-establish a basis for genuine social harmonization and an effective fight against social dumping. i am also waiting for you with the same determination, regardless of the member state concerned, which is another member state, luxembourg. finally, i would like to thank you, commissioner, because to all those eurosceptics here and elsewhere who tell us that the european commission is just a bureaucracy, you have shown that, while the member states did not want tax harmonization without unanimity, well, where the commission has real power to act, it is at the heart of the interests of the citizens by fighting against tax dumping and allowing the restoration of tax justice. thank you, keep going and you'll have our support.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, it was time! with the fine of 13 billion imposed on apple, it was time for the european union to become aware of the tax evasion of multinationals and the collateral damage to your borderless economy in the manner of the wto. it is time, in the global economic war, for the european union to react to the luxleaks scandal, which directly implicates your president juncker, the accomplice of the multinationals to the detriment of nations, a real economic crime against the people. it is time to do the same as the us administration, which for decades has sanctioned our large national companies guilty of using the dollar, such as bnp paribas. with $200 billion in cash, apple, without faith or law, staged a real corporate tax heist. in my country, france, apple has paid only 56 million in corporate taxes in ten years. it's not important. the european union explains that these tax write-offs are not illegal. they are not illegal, but they are immoral to the taxpayers and to the companies that have to suffer hypertaxation to make up for budget deficits. i tell you in advance, mrs vestager, the european union will never see the colour of the 13 billion euros. and, to add to the absurdity, your tax gas plant - ireland - does not want any of that fine. and it would never occur to you that the states that are victims of these thugs could be reimbursed for their lack of tax revenue. so, with you, the poacher gets a bonus. so we should not whine if citizens now vote for patriotic parties. it must be up to the sovereign states to act. this requires the regulation of trade across national borders. marine le pen's france will do this by systematically tightening tax laws to punish tax evasion by multinationals.
madam president, madam commissioner, i admit that i have some difficulty in understanding your decision which has not been published, even though the objective of ending the tax dumping enjoyed by certain multinationals is commendable. a few questions: first, we wonder about the legal basis. what legal texts are concerned? the fact that your decision has not been published considerably limits our analysis. secondly, the commission says it does not question the fact that member states are free to set their own tax policy - very well - and that rates are set freely by the states - in this case, ireland. the commission therefore does not directly attack a tax dumping practice which ireland is practising to the detriment of other european countries. it follows logically that the distortions of competition are appreciated within the irish market. but who are these competitors? did they get a complaint? it doesn't seem to. thirdly, if ireland is to blame, is it not inconsistent, as my colleague has said, to want to impose on it the 13 billion it says it does not want as a sanction? it's still weird. fourth, if, as the commission suggests, member states have refrained from taxing apple for its actual economic activities in their territory, is the responsibility for this failure to do so incumbent on those states and not on the company which has publicly and peacefully benefited from it with their goodwill? i would like to be sure that your legitimate objectives are compatible with the rule of law, non-retroactivity, that your action serves european interests and not repatriating profits and taxes to the united states, europe would not be gaining.
madam president, madam commissioner, let us be honest, the real state of the union address was delivered 15 days ago. by asking apple to return €13 billion in unpaid taxes, mrs vestager has dealt a blow to the tax impunity of multinationals. by completing this process and increasing the number of inquiries, we can put europe back at the service of the citizens. but mrs vestager went further and urged member states to launch their own investigations. it thus defeated the argument that tax-optimisation schemes are legal. these arrangements are illegal under the european competition rules, but they are also illegal under national tax laws. it is a scathing rejection of the defence of mr juncker and his luxembourg heritage. it is above all a reflection of the recklessness of our governments to act. yes, these are difficult investigations, and yes, it is even harder when, for the last 15 years, the resources of the judiciary and the tax authorities have decreased.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by jussi halla-aho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals (com (2015) 0668 c8-0405/2015 2015/0306 cod)) (a8-0201/2016).
for the gue/ngl group madam president, yesterday we had a debate on the upcoming un summit on migration, during which ms mogherini called on the european union and its member states to take responsibility for the growing number of people in need of international protection around the world. we are not going to go forward with this so-called european travel document. it is simply a matter of circumventing the refusal or delay in issuing consular documents by third states and thus speeding up deportations to the countries of origin, transit or to a country where the person being deported would agree to go voluntarily. when we hear the stories of migrants who are increasingly victims of police violence, i wonder if the will of those who have been deported is being respected. the minimum requirement would be that the travel document be drawn up in a language they understand. we have tabled an amendment to that effect and i hope that it will be voted on, which seems to me to be the minimum. it is also not a show of solidarity to make this document a precondition for any agreement between the union and third countries, which take in many more refugees than the european union. we shall therefore vote against this text, which is just one more element in the hardening of the fortress europe.
mr president, the european countries are experiencing an unprecedented influx of migrants. they have the right and the duty to protect their identity. the european union was slow to understand this, as was mrs merkel. she initially reacted badly by opening the doors wide. the european peoples have thankfully brought it back to order and it is now obliged to take that into account. i do not, however, approve of the travel document that the union is going to create. it will certainly make it easier for us to turn back migrants from europe. it will be a kind of passport for expulsion, which will be valid for one trip only, the trip to leave the union. but it is a supranational document that i cannot accept. we must not be under any illusions, the union is not reliable. it will continue to give in to the immigration lobbies. the member states will only be able to combat immigration effectively once they have regained their sovereignty.
mr president, madam commissioner, the european parliament will vote tomorrow to review the guidelines adopted in 2015 to find solutions to boost employment, improve skills, develop skills and fight poverty. unfortunately, the member states pay little attention to these guidelines, which they themselves adopt, much less to the opinion of the european parliament. we are now seeing the result, we still have 21 million unemployed in europe. i am therefore addressing myself today, not so much to you, madam commissioner, who are doing a remarkable job, it must be stressed, as to the members of the council, to ask them whether they are finally going to apply these guidelines. i would like to ask them three specific questions. first, what have they done to drastically reduce the burden on wages and make it easier for companies to hire? secondly, europe has given them six billion euros to help unemployed and unskilled young people find jobs, internships or training. has this money been used effectively? finally, have they put in place the training needed to cope with the digital and energy revolutions that will profoundly change the labour market and jobs?
mr president, commissioner, dear marianne thyssen, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, according to eurostat, the number of unemployed in the european union fell by two million in march 2016 compared with march 2015. so we can finally say that we are on the right track. however, we are still far from achieving our objectives and very large disparities persist between member states and between generations. i would like to emphasize and highlight what this report brings to the guidelines for employment policies in the member states. let us first of all talk about training, which is the real root of the world of work. let's stop pitting the education system against the corporate world. from a young age, let us create real exchanges and bridges between the two, particularly through internships and apprenticeships. let us give our young people the taste for enterprise, and let us stop investing in training and occupational sectors which are a thing of the past. let us develop lifelong learning, because in a world of change, many careers require multiple training. while respecting our social standards, it is imperative to reduce red tape at all levels and in all sectors. of course, how can we not address the issue of taxation. today, it is too much on the part of labour, so let us all choose a taxation that is less harmful to employment and growth. i would like to conclude by reminding the member states of the need to make better use of the resources of the european social fund at their disposal.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, we hear the european union talking a lot about smes, as if the kleptocrats in brussels had the experience of a small company. how many of you have ever signed a paycheck or looked for customers to fill an order book? mr barroso, who is employed by goldman sachs, is the epitome of the european commission's collusion with wall street banks, high finance and the global industrial lobbies. who has benefited from the single market in the last 25 years? only to large multinational companies outside europe. your competition rules have allowed foreign capital to buy or invest in a large number of strategic european companies. the recent example in france is the alstom case with general electric. the pervasive regulation of the european union is an intolerable constraint on smes. what smes need is a book of orders and for that, a policy of domestic economic demand is needed. the member states must also be given the possibility of reserving markets for national smes. we are also sceptical about the capital markets union and the desire to increase financing through the financial markets. in our experience, markets are cyclical. they only fund when the wind is blowing. they want a quick return on their investment. the patriots want to rethink the partnership with the private banks and establish long-term relationships to support the business when the tide turns. banks must therefore focus on one business, finance the productive economy and reduce speculation. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i know that you are a supporter of brexit, of course. that's the answer. but before attempting frexit, as we could of course envisage in france, we will still try to negotiate, at a european summit, on two or three criteria, similar to those of the united kingdom: leaving the schengen area and regaining our national economic governance, which we want, as the united kingdom does today.
madam president, in the european parliament we can no longer count the reports that have been accumulated in recent years in order to supposedly defend our smes. beyond the beautiful declarations, our governments stubbornly refuse to protect our companies from unfair competition from countries like china. worse still, they have decided to organise intra-community social dumping with the scandalous directive on posted workers. in france, our smes are suffering both the worst of liberalism and the worst of statism. on the one hand, there is the savage competition and financialisation at the expense of the real economy, and on the other hand, there is the overwhelming bureaucracy, the confiscatory taxation and the constantly fluctuating inflation of standards, which create an unbearable legal insecurity for small businesses. i shall mention only three of the measures we are recommending. we want to encourage access to public procurement for smes, put banks back at the service of business and rebalance corporate taxation. it cannot continue to be accepted that in france, small and mediumsized enterprises pay an average of 22% in corporation tax, compared with less than 8% for large groups.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, once again we are completely out of touch with reality, firstly because social protection is a highly regulated area and must remain so. to speak of a non-labour minimum income - we agree that it is not a minimum wage - is a real statement of the failure of the socioeconomic policies of some states, but above all of europe. i would remind you that the euro zone has unemployment rates two points higher than the rest of europe. it is therefore a question of treating the consequences, not the causes. this is dramatic for two reasons, firstly, given the scale of the current crisis, since it is poverty and exclusion that are weighing on growth and the future of social protection, which is obviously an absolute problem for the sustainability of social protection systems, but especially at the very moment when we are entering a new era, that of digital technology, robotics and the loss of human jobs. the question to the commission is simple: when do you intend to finally take up employment? when do you plan to release the energies of entrepreneurs and all those who want to go on adventure?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, growth will not return and the unemployment curve will not be curved any time soon. so what do we do? we're just gonna sit here and do nothing? no, you can't! with a basic income, we could finally think about society in terms of growth rather than waiting for it like we wait for godot. the technological revolution will destroy thousands of jobs. look at the self-driving car, look at the drones, ask the taxi drivers, also uber, who will be screaming because their jobs are threatened. so what do we do? we're just gonna sit here and do nothing? no, you can't! we must prepare the world for tomorrow. there are also thousands of people who don't get their welfare benefits because they don't know they're entitled to them. with an unconditional basic income, on the one hand, public money is no longer wasted, and on the other hand, people who really need it are really helped. with the basic income, we hold this as a way to lift people out of poverty, out of stigma. it is above all the way for each of us to finally have a life of dignity and to choose our own life. by the way, basic income is not a cost, it's an investment in our collective happiness. let us get down to business, let us work to ensure that a basic income is really put to the test, particularly in several of the european regions, so that we can come out of it stronger and so that europe can come out of it stronger.
mr president, madam commissioner, between 2013 and 2014, the number of people at risk of social exclusion fell by 0.1%, a drop in the bucket compared to the five million additional poor people europe has seen since 2010. the fight against precariousness must be a priority for all of us, whether at national or european level, and i know your commitment, madam commissioner. for me, the way out of poverty is through decent, well-paid work. the minimum income decided in the member states in accordance with their specific characteristics is thus an indispensable safety net, but it must not be a net that traps people in dependency and, on the contrary, allows them to bounce back, as if they had fallen, and to re-enter the labour market. yes, we need a thorough analysis of the european mechanisms for combating poverty.
mr president, while i regard the establishment of a national minimum income as a social advance, i have serious reservations about a european minimum income based on uniform criteria. in my view, imposing a common base or even a common range is a sweet utopia, totally disconnected from local realities, because when you introduce a minimum income, you also have to take into account its adverse effects on the economy and the labour market, such as the leveling of wages to the bottom that it might induce. these consequences can only be effectively studied and addressed at national level. our respective states do not all have the same inflation, the same labour rights, the same taxation, the same cost of housing or the same cost of access to education. it would therefore be inconsistent to impose a macroeconomic view of income, when at the same time we were advocating the introduction of regional policies yesterday in this house, during the debate on the guidelines for employment policies. the protection of europeans is paramount. it would be a grave mistake, however, to oppose it to economic growth and development or, worse, to play the sorcerer's apprentice.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her statement of reasons, which stresses the need for pluralism and non-discrimination, particularly on grounds of conviction, in the union. i hope that this reminder will be heard by some of my colleagues who sometimes practice this kind of exclusion here in the european parliament. (mr lavrilleux speaking out of the microphone) how? what are some examples? i was recently involved in a dispute in my committee on culture and education, where all the groups were forbidden to support my amendments because i was part of that group, and i think that is still very serious in our institution, especially since these amendments were quite in line with what everyone is currently asking for. look, it depends on how you do your job. i do it with my heart and i find it particularly discriminatory. there are some very positive elements in this report. i welcome the part on disability and the reminder that we must do everything we can to promote... (the president cut the speaker off)
what do you mean? so when i am called, i have no right to answer, i must allow myself to be insulted! (intervention off the microphone) for me, you are calling me a liar, now. (speaking of which) no, but that's okay. so that's exactly what i said at the beginning.
mr president, i would simply like to return to the issue of the wearing of religious symbols in the workplace, which was raised in particular in paragraph 21 of the report. on behalf of the members of the french delegation of the european people's party (epp), i would like to recall the principle of subsidiarity concerning the rules governing the wearing of so-called religious symbols, whether in businesses or in public spaces. while member states, whether secular or not, must guarantee freedom of religion, it is nevertheless for them to lay down rules governing religious practice in all or part of their territory, in accordance with their history and culture, or in the name of gender equality or security, in accordance with european texts. we are absolutely committed to this principle and i wanted to remind you of it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, as rapporteur on the evaluation of the globalisation adjustment fund for the committee on budgets, i have met with many stakeholders, companies, employees, trade unions, retraining workers and administrations. they all told me three things. the first is that this fund is very useful in preventing employees from being left without a solution following their dismissal. secondly, the fund is de facto intervening ex post facto and procedures should be accelerated. thirdly, and i think this is the most important, it would probably be better to be in prevention than in repair. that is why i am advocating for an anticipation of the changes brought about by both globalisation, technological changes, and commercial changes in the world as well. i think that the commission must now take this dimension into account and make proposals so that we, at european level, can support companies in these changes. i think there are real prospects here, particularly for smes, which, with this support, would avoid going into the wall, as is the case at present.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the europeans are showing that their real intention is to attack peoples and national sovereignty. president rodrigo duterte was elected president of the republic of the philippines. he is the most successful president in the history of the philippines with over six million ahead of his rival. he is leading a policy of eradicating crime, a very important phenomenon in the philippines, and it must be believed that today, it is a real problem, a threat even to the filipinos. as cruel as this real policy of fighting crime is, it must remain within the law, and if there is to be a death penalty, it must be included in the scale of sentences and nowhere else. but once again, let the eurocrats not interfere in the internal affairs of states, let the people speak for themselves, whatever the consequences, let the european union deal with its own turmoil, notably in ukraine, and let it leave peace in the philippines and elsewhere, and above all let it leave peace to nations for their national sovereignty.
author. mr president, this is not the first time that zimbabwe has been mentioned here. its president, robert mugabe, has been in power since 1980, is 92 years old, and is already effectively a candidate for his succession. the unprecedented scale of the challenge the country is facing today must be emphasized. the decision of the court of justice to break the government's ban on protests is a sign of the crisis the country is going through. yes, we must demand the release of all political prisoners, especially those who have only demonstrated peacefully. but we also need to look at the economic and social causes of popular discontent. 80% of the population lives below the poverty line. 80% of gdp is spent on debt repayment in this country, which holds the world record in this area. it's also one of the most corrupt countries in the world. as the european union restores its development aid, the traceability of this aid is an urgent necessity, as is the cancellation of part of the debt, provided that the efforts of the international community actually benefit the population, and in particular women. 68% of them are victims of violence.
mr president, i have just listened to you carefully and you have explained to the members who were not happy with this decision to leave the chamber. i remind you, mr president, and this is certainly mentioned in the rules of procedure, that we were not appointed by mr schulz, we were democratically elected by the french people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the nomination of julian king, who is a staunch europeanist and an enemy of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ while a literal interpretation of the treaty allows the united kingdom to retain the rights of eu membership, including the right to appoint a commissioner, it is also bound by its obligations. under the treaty, london is solemnly committed to loyal cooperation with its partners. therefore, article 50 teu should be triggered within a reasonable timeframe to launch exit negotiations, and the uk should resist the temptation to negotiate bilateral trade agreements with third countries, as jean-claude juncker has stressed. in this context, the appointment of a british commissioner in charge of security, a policy to which the uk has never been a full member, was not a foregone conclusion. it will be recalled that commissioner jonathan hill resigned the day after the referendum results, with remarkable dignity, and that the united kingdom relinquished the rotating presidency of the council. that is why, without questioning julian king's resume, or the very principle of creating a security portfolio, i voted against this appointment.
in writing. the european parliament has given its support to the appointment of julian king of the united kingdom as commissioner for security. in the present context, the appointment of a british commissioner is a bad sign. while a literal interpretation of the treaty allows the united kingdom to retain the rights of eu membership, including the right to appoint a commissioner, it is also bound by its obligations. under the treaty, london is solemnly committed to loyal cooperation with its partners. this is why article 50 teu should be triggered within a reasonable time to launch exit negotiations, and the uk should resist the temptation to negotiate bilateral trade agreements with third countries, as jean-claude juncker has stressed. in this context, the appointment of a british commissioner in charge of security, a policy to which the uk has never been a full member, was not a foregone conclusion. it will be recalled that commissioner jonathan hill resigned the day after the referendum results, with remarkable dignity, and that the united kingdom relinquished the rotating presidency of the council. that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of julian king to the commission because he is a committed europeanist who is not representative of the majority of the british people. to want to sit in the commission to strengthen the eu when its people voted for brexit, you have to dare to do it!
in writing. - i voted against this investiture, unlike the vast majority of my colleagues in the european parliament, because it is incomprehensible today, after the british vote of 23 june, to continue as if nothing had happened! we welcomed the decision of his predecessor, jonathan hill, to resign as commissioner in view of the vote. but, without having any objections to the man, an experienced and renowned diplomat, i can only disapprove of the fact that we are today rushing to validate the appointment of a new commissioner with, moreover, a broad portfolio on security, which is very strategic, and this without conditions or guarantees on the intentions of the british government, particularly with regard to the triggering of article 50, which is supposed to mark the beginning of the formal exit negotiations. 'brexit means brexit', as theresa may said many times this summer, and i can only deplore the lack of coherence and logic in the political signal sent by parliament on 15 september.
in writing. - sir julian king is a convinced and happy europeanist. his vision of the european union is the opposite of ours, namely a europe of nations and freedoms, respecting the sovereignty of the member states. i could only object to his appointment, so i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this nomination. julian king is a convinced europeanist, opposed to our vision of a europe of nations. i also made a reminder to the rules that i invite you to find on my social networks.
in writing. ‒ as soon as the brexit results were announced, the british european commissioner, jonathan hill, resigned. however, as long as article 50 has not been activated, the uk remains a full member of the eu and must be represented in the commission by a commissioner. the uk's nominee, julian king, was catherine ashton's chief of staff when she was commissioner, which is not a good sign. moreover, the post of commissioner for security, responsible for the fight against terrorism and crime, seems to me to be too sensitive as the european army that the commission is calling for is getting closer. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ julian king is a strong europeanist, opposed to our vision of a europe of nations, so i voted against his appointment.
in writing. ‒ julian king does not seem to me to be fit to be european commissioner; he is just another eurotechnocrat. i'm voting against his nomination.
in writing. - mr king is a staunch europeanist. so he is clearly completely out of step with the majority of his countrymen and i think his appointment as commissioner is not a good idea. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination, for reasons of consistency. european citizens have seen that 27 member states now meet at european summits, as was the case in bratislava in september. how then can we explain to them that a state whose majority of voters have decided to leave the union can appoint a new european commissioner? traditional rules must be adapted to political reality, not the other way around. i do not question sir julian king's competence, but i would like to see the total confusion about brexit come to an end. last june, the resignation of jonathan hill, who no longer found legitimacy in the exercise of his duties, as european commissioner, had marked the beginning of the political and institutional process. it is urgent that the negotiations, led in particular by former european commissioner michel barnier, begin and that the famous article 50 be activated, so that the political and economic relationship between the union and the united kingdom can be clarified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that returns must be carried out in a dignified manner, with full respect for the fundamental rights of persons.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to introduce a standard european travel document for the return of non-eu nationals who are in an irregular situation in the member states of the union and do not have a passport or identity card. this measure, which should have been approved by any front national member, is in fact a new step towards the establishment of a common policy on asylum and immigration, which we reject for obvious sovereignty reasons. it is for the member states, and only the member states, to determine the guidelines and modalities of their immigration policy. a country like france must be perfectly capable of determining the format of the document required for the return of illegal migrants. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on travel documents for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals aims to introduce a standard european travel document to speed up the return of non-eu nationals who are in an irregular situation in eu member states and do not have a passport or identity card. indeed, it is very difficult for many european countries to send these people back to their country of origin by safe and legal means. according to the commission itself, only 40% of eu decisions to return third-country nationals in an irregular situation are implemented each year. the document is valid for a single journey ending on the arrival of the person concerned in the third country of return. we reject this report as a new step towards a common policy on asylum and immigration. only states should determine the format of a document required for the return of illegal migrants. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that member states introduce a harmonised travel document to facilitate the return of irregular migrants to their country of origin. political competence in matters of asylum and immigration must be vested in the states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which lays down the criteria to be met by the european travel documents required for the return of third-country nationals who are not intended to remain in the territory of the european union. as the explosion of the migration crisis has put our reception capacities to the test, it is essential to make effective the return of irregular nationals to their countries of origin on european soil. travel documents with harmonised provisions in europe and high security standards are a tool in the fight against fraud and forgery that allow irregular entry into european territory, techniques all too often used by human traffickers and foreign fighters. finally, i believe that the european union must finally give itself the means to enforce the readmission agreements signed with third countries. this is a prerequisite for ensuring that international protection is granted promptly to those who really need it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this measure is a further step towards establishing a common policy on asylum and immigration, which we reject for obvious sovereignty reasons.
in writing. - this is a text that smells like a pure advertisement. there is already a harmonisation of return documents, but many third countries refuse to accept them because of their poor quality. so that's it! this would explain why member states have difficulty implementing the measures of removal or return to the border they take... in france, the rate of enforcement of such measures is just under 25% for the whole population and 15% for non-eu nationals. i thought that the cause was the inability of the public authorities, or the aberration of permissive laws, the gradual regularization of all those who manage to start a real or fictitious family, or even those international conventions that systematically privilege the rights of migrant man over those of the rooted man! was i wrong? so all this is just a question of paperwork? and thanks to this initiative by the european commission, we could therefore expel without any problem the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who enter france every year and the hundreds of thousands who are already there... do you really believe that? i'm not going to. i'm telling you, it's a publicity stunt.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the text authorising the creation of a european travel document for the return of third-country nationals who are the subject of an administrative or judicial return decision. less than 40% of return decisions are actually enforced in europe. the return policy is an essential part of the fight against irregular immigration. we must urgently reorganise ourselves. a first step has been taken with the creation of the european border and coast guard, as it will now be possible to plan and implement joint return operations to ensure that irregular migrants do not continue to stay in the territory of the union. however, the diversity of travel documents presented by the member states with standards, formats and security features varying from one country to another was used by certain third countries as a pretext to challenge the validity of the document and, therefore, to reject the readmission application. the creation of a uniform travel document will certainly facilitate and accelerate the return of irregular migrants.
in writing. ‒ this text is a further step towards the establishment of a common policy on asylum and immigration, which we reject for obvious sovereignty reasons. it is for the member states, and them alone, to determine the guidelines and modalities of their immigration policy. a country like france should be perfectly capable of determining the format of the document required for the return of illegal migrants. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve and accelerate the return of irregular migrants. the european commission has therefore proposed the creation of a uniform travel document to complement the instruments to combat irregular immigration. the commission notes that the return decision was not implemented in full, but in part, because the return decision was not implemented in full. this low rate may be partly linked to the low recognition of travel documents by third countries due to the diversity of documents presented by member states. we cannot afford to have such a low rate of execution of return decisions in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to the creation of a european passport for migrants, even if the aim is to expel them. i believe that political competence in matters of asylum and immigration should be a matter for the sovereignty of each state, not the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of my colleague jussi halla-aho's report, which examines the commission's proposal to create a european travel document for the return of third-country nationals in an irregular situation. the commission should also be able to assess the effectiveness of the return policy in the member states, in particular by examining the impact of the return policy on the implementation of the return policy. such a situation is not tenable; i therefore welcome the creation of a uniform travel document, which will usefully complement the existing instruments to combat irregular immigration.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is therefore based on a strongly europeanist logic and is based purely and simply on the prerogatives of the member states. but they and they alone should have political competence in matters of immigration and asylum.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim is to create an eu document to facilitate the return of irregular migrants. it is therefore part of a europeanist logic, ignoring the prerogatives of the member states. it should be recalled that the member states should logically retain political competence in matters of asylum and immigration. we are therefore opposing this union's dictate. france should be able to determine the format of the document required for the return of illegal migrants.
in writing. ‒ the 'fortress europe' project is a danaid barrel into which the union is sinking, and it must constantly renew its creativity in an attempt to counter the migration it has itself caused. the aim is to standardise the travel documents used for returning and readmitting migrants whose asylum applications have been rejected or who are in an irregular situation. and to digitize all of it in the various european data-filing systems developed in recent years (eurodac, vis ii). including the migrant's 'distinctive signs'... the commission will regularly carry out an 'assessment of the recognition rate of the travel document by each third country' to find out which foreign country is the worst pupil and should be penalised in its trade, enlargement or other agreements. this shows that brussels is always looking for more ways of putting an end to the symptoms of the migration crisis at the expense of the rights of migrants, without ever seeking to put an end to the causes. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this is the creation of an eu document to facilitate the return of 'irregular migrants'. it is therefore part of a europeanist logic, ignoring the prerogatives of the member states. it should be recalled that the member states should logically retain political competence in matters of asylum and immigration. i therefore voted against the commission proposal and the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes the introduction of a standard european travel document to simplify the return of non-eu nationals who are in an irregular situation in the member states of the union and who cannot present an identity card or passport. this new standard allowed for a common format for a european travel document, which would contain personal information as well as an official photograph, in order to limit counterfeiting and forgery. we reject this proposal, which is a further step towards the establishment of a common policy on asylum and immigration. immigration policy is the responsibility of the member states and it is therefore up to them to determine the principles and modalities of immigration policy.
in writing. ‒ this measure is a further step towards establishing a common policy on asylum and immigration, which i reject for obvious sovereignty reasons. it is for the member states, and only the member states, to determine the guidelines and modalities of their immigration policy. a country like france should be perfectly capable of determining the format of the document required for the return of illegal migrants. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the creation of the european travel document for the return of third-country nationals in an irregular situation. the effective rate of enforcement of return decisions in 2014 was less than 40%, but the european union needs to improve and accelerate the return of migrants who do not intend to stay on its territory. i am glad to see that there is finally a text on the european union's migration policy which does not constitute a call for illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. the report focuses on three objectives: to harmonise the format and technical specifications of this document for illegally staying third-country nationals, to facilitate the recognition of such a document by third countries and to help reduce the amount of time that such persons are held in administrative detention.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to introduce a standard european travel document to speed up the return of non-eu nationals who are in an irregular situation in the eu member states and do not have a passport or identity card. this measure is a further step towards establishing a common policy on asylum and immigration, which i reject for obvious sovereignty reasons. it is for the member states, and only the member states, to determine the guidelines and modalities of their immigration policy. a country like france should be perfectly capable of determining the format of the document required for the return of illegal migrants. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the creation of a european document for the return of third-country nationals in an irregular situation. the return decision should be implemented in accordance with the principle of proportionality. this low rate may be partly due to the low recognition of travel documents by third countries, in particular because of the diversity of documents presented by the member states. the aim here is therefore to introduce a uniform travel document, as proposed by the european commission, which would thus complement the various instruments to combat irregular immigration within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the conditions to be met by the european travel documents required for the return of third-country nationals whose asylum applications have been rejected. this report calls for the establishment of a common template and technical and security specifications for the harmonised european travel document. if the union is to guarantee rapid international protection for those who really need it, it needs to be able to enforce readmission agreements with third countries. in this context, i supported this report which establishes a harmonised document as a useful instrument for return policy.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to introduce a standard european travel document to speed up the return of non-eu nationals who are in an irregular situation in eu member states and do not have a passport or identity card. it is very difficult for many european countries to send these people back to their country of origin by safe and legal means. the european commission figures also suggest that only 40% of eu decisions to return illegally staying third-country nationals are implemented each year. the new rules will establish a common format for the european travel document to improve its recognition in destination countries. its technical details will include personal information and an official photograph, to avoid counterfeiting and falsification. the document is valid for a single journey ending on the arrival of the person concerned in the third country of return. this measure is a new step towards the establishment of a common policy on asylum and immigration, which i categorically reject. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i would like to pay tribute to our socialist and democratic group which has fought to:- reduce legal costs and red tape;- reduce the fragmentation of practices between member states with a view to further integration of capital markets in the eu;- unlock liquidity for institutional investors who are currently facing a low interest rate environment;- harmonise investor protection rules in different pieces of legislation;- avoid a race to the bottom between member states. we are particularly proud to have offered other groups a scheme that simplifies the life of smes by allowing them to use a standard document easy to complete by anyone without the help of banks or lawyers to sell their securities.
in writing. ‒ this report on the prospectus to be published in the event of an offer of securities to the public or with a view to the admission of securities to trading is part of the capital markets union. the term prospectus refers to the documentation that issuers of financial products with public call for tender must make available to investors. the commission wanted to simplify the documentation with a new mandatory prospectus above €5 million per issue over 1 year and states are free to impose their standards when this format is not mandatory. overall, from a strictly technical point of view, the recasting of the prospectus directive may be justified. on the text itself and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the real winners will be the market firms and the commercial banks. so i refrained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to revise the rules on the prospectus to be published in the event of an offer of securities to the public or for the admission of securities to trading, in order to ensure investor protection and the efficiency of markets. in adopting this text, we ensure in particular that these prospectuses contain the necessary information for a good understanding and that they are written in a way that facilitates easy analysis. it is necessary to establish a climate of confidence which will contribute to investment in securities.
in writing. ‒ abstention: on a strictly technical level, the recasting of the prospectus directive may be justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out parliament's position on the reform of the rules applicable to the issuance of prospectuses for the placing of securities. this reform is part of the european commission's plan to create a single capital market, which aims to simplify documentation, particularly for smes, to harmonise national schemes and the still unequal schemes between 'wholesale' and 'retail' and to centrise information with the competent european authority.
in writing. ‒ from a strictly technical point of view, the revision of the prospectus regulation may be justified. on the philosophy of the text and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the main beneficiaries will be market firms and commercial banks. we are more in favour of long-term partnerships between companies and banks focused on their business and on lending to the real economy, rather than on speculation and market operations. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. on a strictly technical level, the recasting of the 'prospectus' regulation may be justified. the commission has sought to simplify the documentation by making it both more concise and more readable, which we welcome. on the other hand, in the spirit of the text and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the main beneficiaries will be market firms and commercial banks. we are more in favour of long-term partnerships between businesses and banks focused on their business and lending to the real economy than speculation and market operations.
in writing. ‒ prospectuses are documents required by law, which provide information about a company. this information forms the basis on which investors decide whether to invest in the various securities issued by the company in question. other the report argues that the eu harmonised prospectus is an essential tool for integrating capital markets across the union. it explains how it works. therefore, such prospectuses should include a clear warning of the risks, in particular for retail investors. i am afraid that the publication of such brochures will not be enough to combat the financial crisis. in particular, in the context of the capital markets union and the financial arrangements it allows (securitisation, shadow banking, etc.). more paperwork and red tape. benchmarking is an archaic formalistic dictatorship. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ from a strictly technical point of view, the revision of the prospectus regulation may be justified. on the philosophy of the text and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the main beneficiaries will be market firms and commercial banks. we are more in favour of long-term business partnerships with specialist banks and lending to the real economy than speculation and market operations. so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ in practice, the revision of the prospectus directive may be justified. on the philosophy of the text and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the main beneficiaries will be market firms and commercial banks. we are more in favour of long-term business partnerships with specialist banks and lending to the real economy than speculation and market operations. for this reason, and despite thresholds which are better suited to smes and simplified obligations, we abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ from a strictly technical point of view, the revision of the prospectus directive may be justified. on the philosophy of the text and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the main beneficiaries will be market firms and commercial banks. i am more in favour of long-term business partnerships with banks focused on their business and loans to the real economy than speculation and market operations. i therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this text sets out the european parliament's position on the reform of the regulation on the rules applicable to the issuance of prospectuses for the placing of securities. i particularly support one of the aims of this reform, which was to simplify documentation, especially for smes which still face too many administrative constraints. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the prospectus directiveis part of the capital markets union, launched by jonathan hill, which aims to boost alternatives to bank financing for businesses. facilitating access to financial markets has therefore been one of the commission's priorities. the term prospectus refers to the documentation that issuers of financial products with public call for tender must make available to investors. overly stringent information requirements can create an administrative burden and the risk of dissuasive litigation, particularly for smes. it is therefore necessary to provide investors with relevant and synthetic information, differentiating between professional and lay investors, without creating excessive obstacles. on a strictly technical level, the recasting of the 'prospectus' directive may be justified. on the philosophy of the text and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the main beneficiaries will be market firms and commercial banks. i am more in favour of long-term business partnerships with banks focused on their business and loans to the real economy than speculation and market operations. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report setting out the european parliament's position on the rules applicable to the issuance of a prospectus for the placing of securities. in november 2015, the european commission published a proposal for a european regulation to replace directive 2003/71/ec on prospectuses. the reform, which is part of the creation of a single capital market, aims to reduce investment barriers and facilitate the raising of funds on financial markets. it should be noted that smes will be the main beneficiaries of this simplification of documentation, national regimes will be harmonised and the centralisation of information at the level of the european securities and markets authority (esma) will be increased.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out parliament's position on the reform of the rules applicable to the issuance of prospectuses for securities placements. the aim of this reform is to simplify documentation, particularly for smes, in the context of the capital markets union. the aim is also to harmonise national regimes and to centrise information with the european financial markets authority. i supported this report because it is part of the measures needed to create a genuine single market for capital. it is essential that europe continues to act in order to remove the obstacles that restrict investment in the union.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the prospectus directiveis part of the capital markets union, launched by jonathan hill, which aims to boost alternatives to bank financing for businesses. facilitating access to financial markets has therefore been one of the commission's priorities. on a strictly technical level, the prospectus directive may be justified. on the philosophy of the text and the capital markets union, it is more questionable to want to finance more the financing of enterprises, especially smes. the main beneficiaries will be market firms and commercial banks. we are more in favour of long-term business partnerships with specialist banks and lending to the real economy than speculation and market operations. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. we must show more solidarity with each other and finally create a truly european asylum system.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the relocation plan agreed by eu representatives in september 2015 to resettle syrians from turkey to the eu, in line with the eu-turkey migration agreement. the resolution proposes that member states make available at least one third of their relocation places by 31 december 2016. it adds that if the member state of relocation does not approve the relocation within two weeks, the approval should be assumed to have been given. the text stresses that only a very small number of syrian refugees have been resettled in the eu to date. it recalls the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 in which it called for more safe and lawful routes into the union for asylum seekers and refugees, including the adoption by the eu of binding and mandatory legislation on resettlement, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and a wider use of humanitarian visas. we reject the policy of distributing migrants, which has proved to be a flagrant failure. this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding. so i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the relocation plan agreed by eu representatives in september 2015 to resettle syrians from turkey to the eu, in line with the eu-turkey migration agreement. the resolution actually calls for states to make available at least two-thirds of their relocation places by 31 december 2016. if the member state does not approve the relocation within 2 weeks, the relocation is considered to have been accepted. the text stresses the very low number of syrian refugees resettled in the eu, calls for a binding mechanism for the resettlement of migrants, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and a wider use of humanitarian visas. as i am opposed to the policy of distributing migrants, which is a failure and leads to more immigration, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this text only makes the effects of the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 which aimed to impose on member states a resettlement quota for syrian migrants even more binding. i voted against this policy, which has already largely failed.
in writing. i voted against this european parliament consultation report on the amendment of the council decision to relocate persons in need of international protection from italy and greece in order to implement the migration agreement concluded between the european council and turkey. the text as adopted by parliament goes far too far in its recommendations on the application of relocation and resettlement mechanisms in europe. i am particularly opposed to afghans being relocated to eu member states, where it is established that only syrians, iraqis and eritreans can benefit from this system. once again, the left-wing groups in the european parliament have tried to hijack the commission's proposal to introduce provisions which should not be in such a text, such as encouraging member states to family reunification.
in writing. ‒ although this report offers interesting solutions for the relocation and resettlement of people in need of international assistance, i could not support this text because some paragraphs deal with issues that are beyond the scope of the commission's proposal. the report proposes, in particular, the introduction of a binding and mandatory legislative framework for the resettlement of such persons, or the wider use of humanitarian visas. it also deals with the issue of family reunification, a subject which for me must be linked to other european policies or to solidarity and emergency measures.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wishes to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the relocation plan agreed by the european representatives in september 2015 to resettle syrians from turkey to the eu, in line with the eu-turkey migration agreement. the resolution proposes that member states make available at least one third of their relocation places by 31 december 2016. it adds that to date only a very small number of syrian refugees have been resettled in the union. the text recalls the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 in which it called for more safe and lawful routes into the union for asylum seekers and refugees, including the adoption by the eu of binding and mandatory legislation on resettlement, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and a wider use of humanitarian visas. as i am opposed to the policy of distributing migrants, which has proved to be a failure, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we reject the policy of distributing migrants, which has proved to be a blatant failure. this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding.
in writing. ‒ this text is the acknowledgement of the failure of the policy of distribution of migrants decided by european governments in 2015. it seeks to amend the decision to take account of the 'deal of the century' with turkey, by allocating 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the 'relocation' plan to refugees from turkey, while noting that the plan has been very little implemented. we do not have to pay collectively for the measures decided by mrs merkel in the sole interest of germany. i said the interests of germany, which imagines that it needs low-cost workers to support its growth and the well-being of its pensioners. it seems that the germans were not really consulted. seeing the electoral slaps that mrs merkel has been taking for several weeks and the irresistible rise of the afd, they decided to make their opinion known. if we are to help greece and italy, it is above all to send back the hundreds of thousands of migrants they are unwittingly welcoming from europe and to protect themselves against new arrivals by waging war on smugglers, helping syria and cutting off the vacuum pumps of immigration. mrs merkel is one of them. but that's for the german people to do.
in writing. ‒ the eu is still struggling to adopt a comprehensive, long-term, strategic and, let us admit, legible migration policy. the commission's proposal, presented in march 2016 in the wake of the eu-turkey statement, is a perfect example of this. the commission's proposal is to 'swap' relocation places for resettlement. almost no one will dispute the need and urgency to promote legal and safe pathways for migrants and to support third countries - such as turkey - which host the majority of the world's displaced people. that said, the eu's solidarity with its external partners can never exempt states from solidarity with each other. the relocation and resettlement mechanisms are complementary and cannot in any way be put in competition. the latest statistics unfortunately confirm that intra-european transfers of applicants from italy and greece are still dripping. parliament is consulted on this matter, but it has spoken with a firm and clear voice: relocation efforts must be accelerated and strengthened. the council is now in the driver's seat so that it does not miss this opportunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the keller report because i am convinced that migration flows to europe cannot decrease if, at the same time, the eu continues to claim that it will welcome all the world's migrants and that it will find them a decent place to live under optimal conditions. the recommendation proposes, in particular, to create a binding and mandatory legislative framework for large-scale resettlement, considers that family reunification cannot be 'subordinated to other union policies or emergency solidarity measures' and that it should even be 'encouraged by member states in all cases', and suggests adding a new country to the list of nationalities eligible for refugee status, namely afghanistan. parliament also demanded that member states commit to taking in more migrants than they had committed to in 2015. what is the opinion of national parliaments? can we afford it? the right answer is not to continue to welcome migrants when our own capacity to do so is out of date, but to cooperate more actively with third countries, to better understand our geostrategic environment and to have a more targeted development aid policy.
in writing. ‒ this is a pro-immigration plea, stating that only a very small number of syrian refugees have been relocated to the eu to date. it recalls the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 in which it called for more safe and lawful routes into the union for asylum seekers and refugees, including the adoption by the eu of binding and mandatory legislation on resettlement, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and a wider use of humanitarian visas. we reject the policy of distributing migrants, which has proved to be a flagrant failure. this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding. in line with the national front's more than 40 years of struggle against the invasion of migrants, i opposed this treason text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the keller report on the introduction of provisional measures for international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. i am of course in favour of member states showing solidarity with each other in the face of the migration crisis, but this report goes much further, for example by proposing the introduction of a binding and mandatory legislative framework for resettlement. it also called for family reunification not to be made conditional on other eu policies or on solidarity or emergency measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the september 2015 relocation plan to resettle syrians from turkey in the eu. i reject this policy of distributing migrants.
in writing. ‒ the commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the september 2015 relocation plan to resettle syrians from turkey in the eu. we oppose the policy of distributing migrants, whereas this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding. i therefore rejected the commission proposal and the legislative resolution for these reasons.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the commission wants to use almost half of the places in the september 2015 relocation plan (54 000 out of 120 000) to resettle syrians from turkey in the eu. we oppose the policy of distributing migrants, whereas this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding. moreover, this measure is imposed on the member states, which constitutes an attack on sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this report opposes the commission's proposal to move 54,000 asylum seekers in greece and italy to turkey. because since the eu-turkey agreement imposed by germany, in addition to the 3 billion given to the erdogan government to "keep" the migrants, the principle of "three" syrians has been introduced. for each syrian returned, the union will be able to choose which one it wishes to take back. a deal tailored to the labour needs of german capitalism. the report also advocates strict application of the eu's internal relocation programme. i am personally not happy with this programme which is aimed at moving a handful of applicants from here to there in the union. the greek and italian asylum services must be relieved of their burdens, but a bureaucratic system that is far removed from the realities and needs of asylum seekers cannot work. this is all the more so if the root causes of parallel migration are not addressed. i support opposition to these eu-turkey arrangements, but not to this programme as presented. under these circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ the commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the september 2015 relocation plan to resettle syrians from turkey in the eu. we oppose the policy of distributing migrants, whereas this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding. i therefore rejected the commission's proposal and the resolution for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the relocation plan agreed by european representatives in september 2015 to resettle syrian migrants who have come to the eu from turkey. the resolution calls on member states to make available at least one third of their relocation places by 31 december 2016. worse, if the member state of relocation does not accept the relocation within two weeks, the approval will then be deemed to have been given. it is clear that we strongly reject this text, which imposes on the member states a further dose of the european union's insane migration policy.
in writing. ‒ i reject the policy of distributing migrants, which has proved to be a blatant failure. this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the provisional measures for international protection in favour of italy and greece, which aims to amend the council decision to relocate persons in need of international protection from italy and greece in order to implement the agreement with turkey, which i have always opposed. the text calls in particular for the introduction of a binding and mandatory legislative framework for the resettlement of migrants and for a wider use of humanitarian visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on interim measures for italy and greece, which follows a council decision of 2015 to provide relief to these two countries in view of the number of persons in need of international protection on their territory. the report provides for member states to take in people directly from turkey, without going through italy and greece as intermediaries.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the relocation plan agreed by eu representatives in september 2015 to resettle syrians from turkey to the eu, in line with the eu-turkey migration agreement. the resolution proposes that member states make available at least one third of their relocation places by 31 december 2016. it adds that if the member state of relocation does not approve the relocation within two weeks, the approval should be assumed to have been given. the text stresses that only a very small number of syrian refugees have been resettled in the eu to date. it recalls the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 in which it called for more safe and lawful routes into the union for asylum seekers and refugees, including the adoption by the eu of binding and mandatory legislation on resettlement, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and a wider use of humanitarian visas. i reject the eu-turkey agreement and the policy of distributing migrants, which has proved to be a blatant failure. this text only confirms and makes this policy even more binding. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this consultation report because it concerns a field of competence and decision-making of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european commission wants to use 54 000 of the 120 000 places in the relocation plan agreed by eu representatives in september 2015 to resettle syrians from turkey to the eu, in line with the eu-turkey migration agreement. the resolution states that 'refugee resettlement should not be at the expense of relocation', as relocation is a form of 'internal solidarity', while resettlement is a process of 'external solidarity' where third countries host the majority of refugees. the text stresses that only a very small number of syrian refugees have been resettled in the eu to date. it recalls the european parliament resolution of 12 april 2016 in which it called for more safe and lawful routes into the union for asylum seekers and refugees, including the adoption by the eu of binding and mandatory legislation on resettlement, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and a wider use of humanitarian visas. i reject the policy of distributing migrants, which has proved a blatant failure.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply sorry that the council and the commission are deaf to our contributions on the guidelines for employment policies in the member states. we call on the european commission to amend its proposal accordingly and on the council to take account of our proposals in order to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market, capable of dealing with the serious consequences of unemployment, of promoting a high level of employment and of guaranteeing decent working conditions, including a minimum income and social protection worthy of the name.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines for employment policies coordinate the employment policies of the member states of the european union. on the basis of a recommendation from the commission, the council maintains the 2015 guidelines for the year 2016. the council stressed the use of the european social fund for employment policies. the european parliament endorses the joint proposal of the commission and the council to maintain the employment guidelines for 2016. the employment guidelines were initiated in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without success. youth unemployment is a striking example. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to be in employment or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched in 2013, follows the same principle. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is around 20%, reaching 50% in some member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the draft report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. this annual report is based on country-by-country analyses provided to the commission by the member states and parliament only gives an advisory opinion. horizon 2020 sets five objectives under three themes: sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. the latest version of the employment guidelines are: stimulating demand for employment (5), improving the supply of jobs, skills and competences (6), improving the functioning of the labour market (7) and, finally, promoting social inclusion, combating poverty and promoting equal opportunities (8). these 1998 guidelines have always advocated identical objectives without any concrete results. youth unemployment is the most striking example, with 20% of young europeans out of work and even more than 50% in greece, spain and the french overseas regions. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report is just a continuation of previous reports on the subject which have all failed, and for good reason, since they do not tackle the root of the problem of unemployment in europe, namely the opening of economic borders to all winds, which puts our companies and our employees in competition with those of the poorest countries on the planet. i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported this report to confirm, for 2016, the guidelines for member states' employment policies adopted in 2015. it is particularly important that the european institutions encourage member states to ensure, as a matter of priority, quality education and training systems in order to promote access to employment throughout life and to promote social inclusion for all.
in writing. ‒ the employment policy guidelines coordinate the employment policies of the eu member states. they are integrated into the europe 2020 strategy of 3 march 2010, which sets the economic guidelines of the union. the council shall base its annual update of the employment guidelines on the commission's annual report. on the basis of the recommendation of the commission, the council wishes to maintain the 2015 guidelines for 2016. these employment guidelines were launched in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results. youth unemployment is a striking example. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to be in employment or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched in 2013, follows the same principle. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is around 20%, reaching 50% in some member states (greece, spain). i therefore voted against this text, since it does not in any way attempt to deal with the real causes of mass unemployment.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the employment guidelines were initiated in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses that the council has not taken into account the parliament's requests, as expressed in the resolution of 8 july 2015 on the 2015 guidelines. this report has no legal impact but is an important political signal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it praises the eu for playing a major role as a force for creating jobs, wealth and growth. we are dreaming!
in writing. ‒ the employment guidelines were launched in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results. these are only very general outlines and are only of indicative value. a striking example of this inefficiency, which we have been denouncing incessantly, is youth unemployment. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to be in employment or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched in 2013, follows the same principle. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is around 20%, reaching 50% in some member states (greece, spain). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the employment guidelines were initiated in 1998 and are part of the europe 2020 strategy. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results. these are only very general outlines and are only of indicative value. a striking example of this inefficiency is youth unemployment. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to obtain a job or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched three years ago, is based on the same idea. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is 20% on average, and reaches 50% in some member states (such as greece and spain).
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to confirm the validity of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states adopted in 2015. these guidelines seek, in the good neoliberal logic, to 'strengthen growth through structural reforms' and 'make public finances more sustainable'. the parliament's report focuses on the fight against precarious work, underemployment, undeclared work and zero-hour contracts, or aims to reduce discrimination in the labour market and in access to the labour market, in particular for categories of people who are victims of discrimination or exclusion, such as women, older workers, young people, disabled people and legal migrants. however, this is all within the framework of the commission's 'country-specific recommendations'. i cannot support the technocrats in brussels placing the budget under the control of the states. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the employment guidelines were launched in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results. these are only very general outlines and are only of indicative value. a striking example of this inefficiency, which we have been denouncing incessantly, is youth unemployment. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to be in employment or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched in 2013, follows the same principle. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is around 20%, reaching 50% in some member states (greece, spain). i therefore voted against the commission proposal and the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines for employment policies coordinate the employment policies of the member states of the european union. they are part of the europe 2020 strategy, presented on 3 march 2010, which sets the eu's economic guidelines, monitored in the context of the european semester. the europe 2020 agenda sets five objectives, divided into three themes: smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth. on the basis of a commission recommendation, the council wishes to maintain the 2015 guidelines for 2016, in particular for the liberalisation of the labour market. since 1998, these guidelines have been supposed to improve employment in the eu, but we can only see their total ineffectiveness. we are logically rejecting this text from parliament which approves the decision of the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ the employment guidelines were launched in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results. youth unemployment is a striking example. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to be in employment or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched in 2013, follows the same principle. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is around 20%, reaching 50% in some member states (greece, spain). i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the text calls on the member states to guarantee workers decent working conditions and social protection. while social dumping within the european union is linked in particular to differences in working conditions, the adoption of such a report was necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by laura agea on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the employment issue is particularly close to my heart, and this report follows on from the fact that the council completely ignored the position which parliament had taken on this subject in the context of a consultative procedure.
in writing. ‒ the employment guidelines were launched in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results. youth unemployment is a striking example. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to be in employment or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched in 2013, follows the same principle. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is around 20%, reaching 50% in some member states (greece, spain). this is therefore a particularly ineffective and unnecessary policy of interference. i vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this consultation report which reminds the council of the european union of the need to take account of the european parliament's position on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, already stated a year ago.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out parliament's position on the guidelines proposed by the commission for the employment policies of the member states. the report recalls the main objectives of employment policies: to stimulate demand for jobs by, for example, reducing barriers to employment; to improve the supply of jobs and qualifications by facilitating access to education; to improve the functioning of labour markets by combating undeclared work; and finally to guarantee social justice. the report highlights that 120 million eu citizens are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this alarming figure is a reminder of the urgency of action on employment and calls for measures to encourage member states to tackle unemployment and precarious working conditions.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines for employment policies coordinate the employment policies of the member states of the european union. they are part of the europe 2020 strategy, adopted on 3 march 2010, which sets the economic guidelines for the european union. the economic guidelines are monitored in the context of the european semester: they are subject to specific thematic monitoring. on the basis of a recommendation from the commission, the council maintains the 2015 guidelines for the year 2016. the council stressed the use of the european social fund for employment policies. the european parliament endorses the joint proposal of the commission and the council to maintain the employment guidelines for 2016. the employment guidelines were initiated in 1998. successive editions all have the same objectives but without any concrete results. youth unemployment is a striking example. in 2003 and 2008, the target was to be in employment or training within four to six months of entering the labour market. the youth employment initiative, launched in 2013, follows the same principle. in 2016, youth unemployment in europe is around 20%, reaching 50% in some member states (greece, spain). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on member states to show political will and to step up their efforts to combat the illegal trade in wildlife that is taking place before our eyes in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the eu's key objectives as a participant in the 17th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october. the resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote on behalf of the 28 member states, all of whom are already parties to cites, on matters falling within the eu's competence. the eu should not replace the role of sovereign states in major issues of international cooperation. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, known as cites or the washington convention, is an international agreement between states. its purpose is to ensure that international trade in wild plant and animal specimens does not threaten the survival of the species to which they belong. this resolution sets out the objectives of the eu as a participant in the 17th conference of the parties to cites. i am deeply committed to animal welfare and i am in favour of this type of agreement. however, here the resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote in place of the 28 member states. i do not want the eu to replace the states and i voted against it for that reason alone.
in writing. by adopting this resolution, parliament is making its recommendations on the union's strategic objectives for the 17th session of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october 2016. i supported this text which emphasises sanctions and legislation against illegal wildlife trade, as well as cooperation and exchange of information between the states parties to the convention. the illegal wildlife trade is now the fourth largest black market and is used by terrorist groups to finance their activities. the union, which is participating for the first time in the conference of the parties to cites, will have to lead the way in adopting clear policies to discourage the consumption of derived products and to raise consumer awareness.
in writing. ‒ the next international convention on trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora will be held in johannesburg at the end of september 2016. with this in mind, the european parliament adopted a resolution on some key objectives to be discussed at the convention. these objectives encourage the european union to commit itself to protecting endangered species and to strengthen its legislation against poaching and illegal trade. the resolution contains several proposals to encourage the banning of the ivory trade in the member states and to combat trophy hunting and the exotic animal market. these practices represent a significant threat to a large number of species. i voted in favour of this text because i consider biodiversity to be essential.
in writing. the 17th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) opens in johannesburg at the end of september. for the first time, the union will be a key player in this major event to combat the decline of global biodiversity. with the increase in poaching in recent years, many animal and plant species are threatened with extinction. illegal trade is now considered a major network of international organized crime. its turnover is estimated at 20 billion dollars, making it the fourth largest black market in the world. the union has recently adopted an action plan to make the fight against wildlife trafficking a priority. this requires closer cooperation between the countries of origin, destination and transit involved in such illicit trade, as well as a broader definition of illegal trade flows, including the import, export, sale, acquisition or purchase of endangered species.
in writing. ‒ this text sets out the key objectives of the eu as a participant in the 17th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, to be held in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october 2016. it is certainly urgent to regulate this trade and protect the species by strengthening the permit system and completing the classification of cites annexes i, ii and iii, which reflect the seriousness of the situation. unfortunately, this resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote on behalf of the 28 member states, all of whom are already parties to cites, on matters falling within the eu's competence. this was not the case before the eu joined cites in 2015. the eu cannot replace the role of sovereign states in major issues of international cooperation, so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i vote against, as the eu does not have to supplant the role of sovereign states on the major issues of international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i have been keen to support this text, which aims to give parliament's indications on the key objectives of the next convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. the protection of biodiversity is a key issue, and europe needs to be more effective in tackling the trafficking and illegal trade in poaching products (elephant ivory, for example), of which it is a major hub. the report calls for the existing legislative framework to be revised so that the import, export, transport, acquisition and possession of protected species in their countries of origin, and thus illegally obtained or sold in third countries, are automatically prohibited in europe.
in writing. ‒ the protection of endangered wildlife is a just and necessary cause. unfortunately, this resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote on behalf of the 28 member states, all of whom are already parties to cites, on matters falling within the eu's competence. this provision did not exist before the eu joined cites in 2015, and is of no use. it is a worthless prerogative for the fight against wildlife trade and a detrimental element for the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to give parliament's indications on the key objectives of the next convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora to be held in johannesburg at the end of september. the text recalls the importance of protecting species of fauna and flora threatened by poaching and illegal trade, and stresses the role played by organised crime in these activities. it is particularly important to combat the clients of this traffic.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it welcomes the eu's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). however, this accession deprives france of one of its powers, since the eu will now vote on its behalf at the cites conferences.
in writing. ‒ this resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote on behalf of the 28 member states, all of whom are already parties to cites. this was not the case before the eu joined cites in 2015. the eu cannot replace the role of sovereign states in major issues of international cooperation, so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the resolution welcomes the accession of the eu to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), which has already been signed by 27 member states. while we are in favour of regulating this trade and protecting species, we believe that the eu should not take the place of sovereign states on the major issues of international cooperation, which is why we oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution provides a number of recommendations to the european commission and member states in the run-up to the next international conference on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) next month. its convention helps to combat wildlife crime and illegal trade. the illegal trade in these species is the fourth largest black market in the world. the text supports many proposals by states to protect new species increasingly threatened by human activity and global warming or to ban the trade of certain others, such as elephants, for example, whose ivory trade supports many paramilitary groups. it called on the member states of the union and the commission to go beyond the existing international provisions. it called for greater transparency and vigilance in cites' decision-making process, its potential conflicts of interest and its proven cases of internal corruption. i welcome this resolution, to which my friend younous omarjee has made a major contribution. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote on behalf of the 28 member states, all of whom were already parties to cites. the eu cannot replace the role of sovereign states in major issues of international cooperation, so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the key objectives of the eu as a participant in the 17th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). it is true that there is an urgent need to regulate this trade and to protect species, in particular by strengthening the permit system. but cites welcomes the eu's accession to the convention as the sole representative. none of the 28 member states will be able to speak and vote on it, as it is now a matter for the eu. this situation is an attack on the sovereignty of states, and we are voting against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ since the eu cannot replace the role of sovereign states in major issues of international cooperation, i am voting against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which sets out parliament's indications on the key objectives of the next convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, to be held in johannesburg at the end of september 2016. the text recalls that it is essential for biodiversity to protect endangered species, in particular by combating poaching and illegal trade in these species, of which europe is a hub.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the eu's key objectives as a participant in the 17th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october. it is certainly urgent to regulate this trade and protect the species by strengthening the permit system and completing the classification of cites annexes i, ii and iii, which reflect the seriousness of the situation. unfortunately, this resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote on behalf of the 28 member states, all of whom are already parties to cites, on matters falling within the eu's competence. this was not the case before the eu joined cites in 2015. the eu cannot replace the role of sovereign states in the major issues of international cooperation, so i am voting against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the european parliament's position on the key objectives of the 17th conference of the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, to be held in johannesburg at the end of september. the text stresses the importance of protecting these species, which are threatened by illegal trade, poaching and organised crime, and which fuel corruption and trafficking in some countries around the world. the european union cannot remain a hub for this illegal trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes up parliament's indications on the key objectives of the forthcoming convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). the 17th conference of the parties to cites will be held in johannesburg, south africa, at the end of september. as the resolution recalls, it is crucial to protect species threatened by international trafficking and poaching. moreover, it is undeniable that organised crime plays a major role in organising this illegal trade, which is a source of corruption. i supported this text because it stresses the need to punish the customers of this trade as much as the poachers.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the eu's key objectives as a participant in the 17th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to be held in johannesburg from 24 september to 5 october. it is certainly urgent to regulate this trade and to protect species by strengthening the permit system. unfortunately, this resolution welcomes the eu's accession to cites, whereby the eu will now vote on behalf of the 28 member states, all of whom are already parties to cites, on matters falling within the eu's competence. this was not the case before the eu joined cites in 2015. the eu cannot replace the role of sovereign states in major issues of international cooperation, so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report might seem acceptable insofar as it does not directly call for the revision of the postal directive and does not call into question the very principle of a universal service operator. however, several paragraphs tend to cast a sort of suspicion on universal service providers, in particular by calling for increased and systematic control of universal service providers by the commission and the regulatory authorities. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, in the name of free and undistorted competition, will subject la poste to competition which it cannot face in view of its public service obligations. this report will not help in any way to combat wage-based exploitation, whose denunciation in the text will remain purely theoretical.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the application of the directive on postal services, which have been fully subject to competition since 2008. the use of e-mails reduces the number of letters sent, but the use of the internet and online shopping increases the number of parcels delivered to the benefit of online sellers and parcel delivery companies. the report proposes a series of contradictions and the end of the postal public service. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. the report, however, reaffirms the need to maintain universal service, ignoring the fact that this requirement is contrary to the ideal of competition. the report also calls for the elimination of public subsidies and thus, in the end, of universal service. as a rural person, and being even more concerned about these issues, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates free competition, the end of the public service and a uniformity of postal services in the union. it is clear that this will lead to more social dumping for the employees in the sector and less service to the customer. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was for the european right to call on the commission to revise the postal services directive in order to accelerate the liberalisation of the sector, in particular by strengthening the regulatory authorities and the control of universal service operators. for the s&d group, the challenge was to defend and ensure the universal service in a sustainable way. at the end of the negotiations, the text remains a measured approach and draws attention to points which are essential in my view, such as guaranteeing territorial cohesion while maintaining certain access points. however, it casts an unacceptable suspicion on the universal service, which i regret as vice-president of the intergroup on the common good and public services.
in writing. ‒ this report on postal services markets deplores the fact that international intra-eu trade is no longer developing. the committee therefore calls on the commission to ensure that domestic prices in the member states are closer to international prices, at the risk of raising the price of national consignments to compensate for the fall in international prices. the report multiplies the contradictions. it calls for the functions of postal operator and postal regulator to be completely separated. the most important objective is to ensure competition, not efficiency, accessibility or public service. it asks the commission to combat social dumping and wage-based labour exploitation, while at the same time it wants more competition, and it is precisely this competition which is at the origin of social dumping, the use of posted workers and even disguised work. finally, the hunt for public subsidies is reaffirmed. he explained that the aim is to achieve an integrated postal sector in the long term, through interoperability and a european definition of minimum standards to be respected. i therefore voted against this standardisation from below.
in writing. by voting on this text, parliament is making its recommendations on the implementation of the directive on postal services, an important sector in european economies. it was necessary to emphasise the importance of strengthening consumer confidence in these services, in particular through greater transparency of prices and service terms.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report reaffirms that the aim of the postal services directive is to achieve an integrated postal sector in the long term, through interoperability and a european definition of minimum standards to be respected. in other words, once again, the standardisation is from the bottom up.
in writing. ‒ mr ferber looks at the situation of postal services, which were fully liberalised in 2008. as soon as the commission wanted to liberalise a public service, it hammered out the following argument: more competition would necessarily lower prices while guaranteeing the quality of the service. in 2008, the french bought their stamp for 0.55 euros to send a letter to france, as in many neighboring countries. in 2016, it costs them 0.80 euros for a letter to france and 1 euro to belgium, for example. this is a 45% and 80% increase respectively. for mail that comes in slower. as for the universality of the service, ask the many french people who live in towns and villages where post offices have disappeared or reduced their opening hours. the rapporteur believes that the market is still not liberalised, and regrets the predominance of the incumbent operator, while competitors concentrate on the most profitable geographical areas and segments. the national front's long-awaited market is being scrapped. the same is true of the precariousness of employees in all operators, due to competition, and the slow erosion of the very notion of public service. stop the slaughter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the postal services directive, which aims to promote and preserve effective competition in the postal services sector. the union postal sector, representing 0,72% of the union's gdp, remains a key contributor to social, economic and territorial cohesion and the development of the digital single market. the existence of affordable and reliable postal distribution and parcel delivery services is a crucial element for the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it seeks to liberalise the parcel market in europe to the detriment of consumers and to the benefit of the large companies in the sector.
in writing. ‒ despite the stated objective of protecting employees and the universal service, this report aims only at the complete liberalisation and standardisation of the parcel market in europe to increase the profits of courier companies (dhl, deutsche post, etc.) and online sellers (amazon, etc.). i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this text. despite the stated objective of protecting employees and the universal service, the report's aim is only to liberalise and standardise the parcel market in europe. each proposition is in complete contradiction. for example, the report reaffirms the need to maintain universal service, ignoring the fact that this requirement is in conflict with competition, which is regarded as an unassailable ideal. the aim is to increase the profits of courier companies (dhl, deutsche post, etc.) and online sellers (amazon, etc.).
in writing. ‒ jean-claude juncker himself seems to have heard, if not taken into account, that blind liberalisation can no longer be the union's roadmap. the first priority is the social europe, the europe that protects, as he put it. in the postal services, we still have the opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, with the forced liberalization of energy or rail transport. the text on the balance sheet and outlook for the postal services directive, which was supported by the epp, does not take account of these errors. the only obsession with this text is the opening up of the market and competition. it is well known that when there is a natural monopoly or a state monopoly providing universal service, this requires artificial support for new entrants, sacrificing the profitability of the large historical operators, who are still sometimes public services. in addition, the report proposes to abolish the vat exemption, which does not favour operators but rather private users of the universal service, whose costs would increase if the vat exemption were abolished. i therefore believe that this text is an economic, political and social mistake. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 postal services directive has achieved its objectives of liberalising postal services. the report before us is concerned with ensuring that the conditions of competition are properly respected. it recalled that 'the vat exemption for postal services must be applied in a way that reduces distortions of competition between the old monopolies and new entrants to the market'. while some of the findings are realistic, the report does not suggest any way forward. the report thus merely 'notes' 'the increase in the number of parttime employees, temporary workers and self-employed in the sector'. or to deplore 'attempts to circumvent existing minimum wage regulations by increasing the workload to such an extent that it cannot be performed during paid working hours'. the few elements conceded on employment, such as the demand for a guarantee of 'decent working conditions', cannot therefore make us forget the social disaster that accompanied the liberalisation of this sector (11,700 jobs lost at the french post office in 2010). i am voting against this text which is satisfied with that.
in writing. ‒ despite the stated objective of protecting employees and the universal service, this report aims only at the complete liberalisation and standardisation of the parcel market in europe to increase the profits of courier companies (dhl, deutsche post, etc.) and online sellers (amazon, etc.). i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, the postal services sector has been fully liberalised and subject to competition. at the same time, the increasing use of electronic mail is continuously reducing the number of letters sent, while at the same time online shopping is continuously increasing the number of parcels delivered. the aim of this report is therefore to redefine new objectives for postal services with the commission. it proposes the complete separation of the functions of postal operator and postal regulator, the need to maintain universal service and the hunt for public subsidies seen as a distortion of competition, and the aim is to achieve, in the long term, an integrated european postal sector. as this directive is a further step towards the construction of the single market, we are voting against this text which is promoting it.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for increased competition and it is precisely this competition and the end of public monopolies that enable, facilitate and even encourage the use of social dumping, the use of posted workers, disguised work, all in order to be competitive on prices, even though delivery services require few qualifications for a large number of jobs. the report reiterates that the aim of the postal services directive is to achieve an integrated postal sector in the long term, through interoperability and a european definition of minimum standards to be respected. in other words, once again, the standardisation is from the bottom up. this is already the case in many western european countries where the quality of postal services is constantly declining in order to cope with competition. i therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the postal services directive. the text recalls in particular that postal services have a universal service obligation. it is therefore essential that all users have access to it and that prices are reasonable. in this context, the report stresses the important role of national regulatory authorities.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report by my colleague markus ferber on the application of the postal services directive. the postal sector in the european union remains a key contributor to social, economic and territorial cohesion. it is essential that we can have an accessible and reliable postal service in the single market. many other areas are directly affected by this sector, such as trade, insurance, advertising, banking, etc.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, postal services markets have been completely competitive. at the same time, the use of e-mail is continuously reducing the number of letters sent, while online shopping is continuously increasing the number of parcels delivered, generating fabulous profits for online sellers (amazon, fnac, cdiscount, etc.) and parcel delivery companies (ups, dhl, fedex, etc.). the aim of this report is to redefine new objectives for postal services with the commission. despite some stated objectives of protecting employees and providing universal service, this is still a text advocating excessive liberalization which will, as always, lead to a reduction in service in the areas that are the most difficult to access and the least profitable and to a deterioration in the working conditions of employees in the sector. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the postal services sector in europe is fundamental to the economic and social cohesion of all european territories. i voted in favour of this report on the application of the postal services directive to stress the importance of further liberalising the sector to allow for healthy competition, thus offering customers real choice and an increased quality of service. affordable prices, enhanced geographical coverage to enable accessibility and the growth of cross-border postal services must continue to be priorities for operators and competent national authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out parliament's position on the application of the postal services directive. the report calls for improved geographical coverage and better accessibility to postal services, particularly for disabled people and people with reduced mobility. this text calls on the member states to preserve territorial and social cohesion. it is crucial to ensure that customers continue to have access to postal services, by ensuring a minimum number of quality services at the same point of access. the report calls on the commission to improve the definition of universal service to provide a guaranteed minimum level of service for consumers and to ensure a level playing field between traditional postal services and the expanding parcel delivery sector. i supported this text because it focuses on improving the quality of postal services, on their universality and on protecting consumers' rights.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, postal services markets have been completely competitive. at the same time, the use of e-mail is continuously reducing the number of letters sent, while online shopping is continuously increasing the number of parcels delivered, generating fabulous profits for online sellers (amazon, fnac, cdiscount, etc.) and parcel delivery companies (ups, dhl, fedex, etc.). the aim of this report is to redefine new objectives for the commission: - the report deplores the fact that international trade within the eu is not growing any more and therefore calls on the commission to ensure that prices within the member states are closer to international prices. - total separation of the functions of postal operator and postal regulator. - the need to maintain the universal service (a very contradictory point). - restart the hunt for public subsidies seen as distorting competition. the universal service itself is seen as likely to distort competition. - to combat social dumping and wage-based farming, while at the same time calling for the opening up to competition of the industries which are the cause of this social dumping. -to achieve an integrated and harmonised postal sector. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this balanced report which calls for measures to protect public and private investment, alternative financing tools and special attention to smes led by women and minorities.
in writing. ‒ the report's conclusion is unanimous: smes suffer in their access to finance, even though they are a key driver of the economy, they are particularly affected by regulatory constraints, and it is necessary to include the sme dimension in all economic texts. many relevant proposals are identified, such as the need for appropriate rules to make public procurement more open to smes and micro-enterprises, the development of local banks or the mandatory reduction of certain ecb funds available to banks to grant loans to smes. but, as always, the commission must be called upon to act in this direction. we know how close the institutions are to the big industrial and banking lobbies, and it is hard to imagine that the test will be transformed. in the final analysis, this report merely repeats what we have been calling for for a long time, but there is a casting error as to the authority chosen to carry out such a small business act. i therefore abstained on this good text, which will not lead to anything because of the commission's guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, like the european parliament, i have always made smes the indispensable basis for job creation in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. 20.7 million smes account for over 67% of private sector employment in the european union, 30% of which are micro enterprises". parliament also believes that 'smes are the main drivers of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation opportunities in the 28 member states'.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is intended to provide a reflection on how to improve the situation of smes in the union. it concerns access to finance for smes and the enhancement of the diversity of sme finance in a capital markets union. i agree that smes are suffering in their access to finance, even though they are a key driver of the economy and are particularly affected by regulatory constraints. interesting proposals are being put forward (such as adapted rules to make public procurement more open to smes and micro-enterprises, development of local banks or mandatory reduction of certain ecb funds available to banks for granting loans to smes, etc.). i doubt, however, that the commission is going in that direction, given its proximity to the industrial and banking lobbies. finally, the solution is to facilitate alternatives to bank credit, i.e. financial markets and crowdfunding. good findings, good ideas but no real will in fact, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ while this report is full of good intentions towards smes, it does not place enough emphasis on the role of banks in this area. turning them to the financial markets is not a bad thing in itself, but getting the banks to do their job is more efficient. i abstained.
in writing. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are at the heart of european economies, providing the main sources of jobs and growth. we must strongly advocate measures to promote access to finance for smes and to increase the diversity of their financing in a capital markets union. it is essential to boost growth and innovation by encouraging entrepreneurship and risk-taking through access to finance adapted to the evolution of the business. we must therefore, in particular, strengthen the banking systems in europe to enable them to meet the financing needs of these companies.
in writing. ‒ while it is necessary to help smes, which are essential players in the economy, to access finance and to limit the regulatory constraints on them, the solution will not come from the european institutions, which are largely responsible for the situation. we know how closely the institutions are linked to the big industrial and banking lobbies. the opening up of public procurement to smes is certainly welcome, as is the development of local banks and the compulsory reduction of certain ecb funds available to banks for the purpose of granting loans to smes. however, the solution proposed by the cmu, which is to facilitate alternatives to bank credit, i.e. financial markets and crowdfunding, has drawbacks. the result is an increased financialization of the economy, which is cyclical and costly, to the detriment of stable relationships between a bank and its customer. policies based on demand, such as wage increases or reductions in costs, or on national preference, would be more likely to have an effect on the sme fabric. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: in the final analysis, this report merely repeats what we have been calling for for a long time, but there is a casting error as to the authority chosen to carry out such a small business act.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it makes concrete proposals to improve access to finance for smes at all stages of their development. smes are the backbone of the european economy but are facing increasing difficulties in accessing capital. often overly dependent on bank credit, they must be able to diversify their financial contributions, in particular by having easier access to risk capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to expose the shortcomings in the sme financing model in europe by assessing the ratio between bank and non-bank financing and, in the latter case, to establish the specific needs of smes for access to capital markets.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. it is true that, at least in appearance, it is trying to protect smes. but i do not trust the good words of the eu, which has always favoured the big groups.
in writing. ‒ we support the idea of better-tailored legislation for smes, but we have reservations about the eu's ability to implement it, whereas it has always favoured large groups. i therefore abstained on that resolution.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. while we support the idea of better-balanced legislation on sme financing, we have reservations about the eu's ability to implement it, which has always favoured multinationals.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at the problems of access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). smes, which are heavily dependent on bank loans, have been impacted by the contraction of credit by banks that no longer do their job of financing the productive economy. rather than questioning the failure of the central bank in its blind refinancing of the big banks, the point here is to allow smes to access the financial markets as their main source of financing. to do this, the eu is setting up a capital markets union, which brings together initiatives that develop non-bank lending (shadow banking) that further weakens the financial system. the solution favoured by the report is 'simple, transparent and standardised' securitisation, i.e. the conversion of financial assets (debt, loan, unpaid invoice) into financial securities issued on the capital market. it is this procedure that has given rise to the subprime crisis. i am opposed to this text, which is leading the eu towards a new financial crisis, and i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ we support the idea of better-tailored legislation for smes, but we have reservations about the eu's ability to implement it, whereas it has always favoured large groups. i therefore abstained on that resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report's conclusion is unanimous: smes suffer in their access to finance, although they are a key driver of the economy, they are particularly affected by regulatory constraints, and it is necessary to include the sme dimension in all economic texts. many relevant proposals are identified, such as the need for appropriate rules to make public procurement more open to smes and micro-enterprises, the development of local banks or the mandatory reduction of certain ecb funds available to banks to grant loans to smes. but, as always, it is the commission that is supposed to do something about it, whereas its proximity to the big industrial and banking lobbies is a deterrent. more generally, the solution proposed by the cmu would lead to an increased financialization of the economy, which is cyclical and costly, to the detriment of stable relationships between a bank and its customer. demand-driven policies, such as wage increases or reductions in costs, or policies based on national preference, would more likely have an effect on the sme fabric. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates increased financialization of the economy, it is not acceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on access to finance for smes and on the diversity of sme finance in a capital markets union. this report highlights the shortcomings of the european model for financing smes, whose main source of financing remains bank loans. although this should be encouraged, particularly because banks have regional and local knowledge which makes it possible to adapt better to the needs of each sme, it should not be the only source of sme financing (securitisation, crowdfunding, peer-to-peer lending, etc.). ) and
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr karas' report. smes are very important in the eu economy and their access to finance has been a longstanding objective on the eu's political agenda. during the crisis, access to finance was more difficult for smes than for large companies. the capital markets union initiative is therefore working to diversify the financing options for smes.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is intended to provide a reflection on how to improve the situation of smes in the union. it is part of the capital markets union approach, which has already led to the recasting of the prospectus directive to facilitate market access for smes by easing the requirements for small issues. the consensus is that smes suffer in their access to finance, even though they are a key driver of the economy, that they are particularly affected by regulatory constraints, and that it is necessary to include the sme dimension in all economically relevant texts. the solution proposed by the cmu is to facilitate alternatives to bank credit, i.e. financial markets and crowdfunding. critics of this option denounce an increased financialization of the economy, which is cyclical and costly, to the detriment of stable relationships between a bank and its customer. demand-driven policies, such as wage increases or reductions in costs, or policies based on national preference, would be more likely to have an effect on the sme fabric. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which clearly sets out the difficulties faced by our smes in europe in accessing finance, even though they are the heart of the economy in all member states. with this text we recall how the diversification of sources of finance for enterprises must be a priority objective of the capital markets union. the european commission is therefore invited to propose new financing arrangements specific to the needs of smes. this is already happening through programmes such as the start-up europe initiative and the implementation of the small business act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which details the shortcomings of the sme financing model in the union and calls for the development of a diversified sme financing strategy in the context of a capital markets union. smes play a key role in job creation (smes account for 67% of jobs in the union) and in the development of the economies of the member states of the union. our smes are the drivers of innovation and development. smes have different financing needs which should be met on as wide a basis as possible. there is a need to support the development of a wide range of tailor-made programmes, instruments and initiatives to support enterprises, particularly smes, in their start-up, growth and transfer phases. i supported this text which recalls how crucial sme financing is for smes to grow and develop in order to create jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is intended to provide a reflection on how to improve the situation of smes in the union. it is part of the capital markets union approach, which has already led to the recasting of the prospectus directive to facilitate market access for smes by easing the requirements for small issues. the consensus is that smes suffer in their access to finance, even though they are a key driver of the economy, that they are particularly affected by regulatory constraints, and that it is necessary to include the sme dimension in all economically relevant texts. many relevant proposals are identified, such as the need for appropriate rules to make public procurement more open to smes and micro-enterprises, the development of local banks or the mandatory reduction of certain ecb funds available to banks to grant loans to smes. but, as always, the commission must be called upon to act in this direction. we know how close the institutions are to the big industrial and banking lobbies, and it is hard to imagine that the test will be transformed. i choose to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. smes are the backbone of the european economy. as such, it is essential to promote fair competition, access to finance, an appropriate regulatory environment and good social dialogue in order to enable smes to create sustainable and quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report puts smes back at the centre of the concerns and calls for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on smes to be reduced. whether this is followed by effect is another matter. but it is the right thing to do, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, like the european parliament, i have always made smes the indispensable basis for job creation in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. 20.7 million smes account for over 67% of private sector employment in the european union, 30% of which are micro enterprises". parliament also believes that 'smes are the main drivers of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation opportunities in the 28 member states'.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate my colleague on this report in favour of supporting european smes, which are key growth drivers for our economies. a balance must be struck between the european commission's dogma of "free and undistorted competition", which prevents all national aid, and the freedom of enterprise, which allows support for smes, which are often unable to compete on equal terms with the american or asian giants. it should also be borne in mind that any start-up requires financing and therefore bank loans, which are difficult to obtain. in this respect, we should encourage banks to support entrepreneurs more effectively throughout the business process, from the design phase to the manufacturing phase of their product. creativity needs to be encouraged and supported. young entrepreneurs bring dynamism and jobs to national economies and to europe as a whole. let us help them to establish themselves on european territory and not impose too many administrative or fiscal constraints on them, otherwise they will disappear in favour of our neighbours outside europe.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to support smes to develop employment. in fact, over the last ten years, smes have created 85% of new jobs in europe. in 2015, small enterprises contributed up to 71% of the growth in employment in the non-financial market economy. the report identifies the challenges facing smes and the ways in which they can be addressed. it stresses that national and european policies must address as a priority the problems of skills (shortages, inadequacies, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burden, as well as the problems of undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational enterprises. the report also stresses the need to ensure a level playing field for smes in view of their competitive position compared to large enterprises. finally, states should give priority to smes and ensure that entrepreneurs avoid closing their businesses because of various problems (complex procedures, late payment, unfair competition, transfer and succession, etc.). so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this text emphasises the key role of smes in job creation. it then highlights a number of areas for improvement, such as competence or regulatory stability or low capitalisation, etc. although it does not take into account the essential issue of the opening of economic frontiers, it is a step in the right direction. so i voted for it.
in writing. this non-legislative text is intended to guide the european parliament's thinking on how best to exploit the job creation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). i would argue that we must work to create the conditions for an environment conducive to the development of smes in order to tackle unemployment in our member states. it is therefore particularly important that our legislation does not impose a burden of red tape and administrative burdens on our companies. in addition, facilitation of access to finance for these companies must be put in place to promote a level playing field for all smes.
in writing. ‒ unemployment in the union was 23 million in 2015, including 4.5 million young people under 25 who are unemployed and not in education. the massive arrival of migrants is another major social challenge, as more and more jobs are needed. over the last ten years, smes have created 85% of new jobs in europe. the report stresses that national and european policies must address as a priority the problems of skills (shortages, inadequacies, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burden, as well as the problems of undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational enterprises. this text is a step in the right direction in calling for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on smes to be reduced. it stresses the importance of a stable and high-quality regulatory environment, improved regulation and enforcement, as small local businesses are particularly disadvantaged by the problem of high fixed costs. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this text is in line with our position, putting smes back at the centre of concerns and calling for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on them to be reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, of course, because smes are the engine of the european economy. they have created 85% of new jobs in europe over the last ten years. it is therefore essential that all necessary measures be taken to ensure a healthy environment for them to thrive. this report therefore analyses the problems faced by smes and proposes a number of solutions to overcome them. problems raised include issues related to competences, regulatory uncertainty, excessive administrative burdens and access to finance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, despite its shortcomings, it has the merit of being concerned about smes, in particular by calling for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on them to be lightened.
in writing. ‒ this text, although not perfect, is in line with our vision of enterprise and employment by putting smes back at the centre of concerns and calling for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on them to be reduced. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this text, although not perfect, is in line with our vision of enterprise and employment, putting smes back at the centre of concerns and calling for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on them to be reduced. the european economic structure is based mainly on these structures, which are a source of new jobs. over the last ten years, smes have created 85% of new jobs in europe. the text stresses the importance of a stable and high-quality regulatory environment, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is designed to identify the problems that prevent small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) from achieving an effective growth rate and creating jobs. according to the author, 'high labour costs' are one of the most important constraints on job creation in the sme sector. i think it's the opposite, it's the restriction of demand. the report implicitly calls for an exemption for smes from regulatory standards, and calls for an abandonment of direct to indirect taxation, regressive taxation. it also stressed the importance of temporary and therefore precarious employment in the sme sector and 'invited the commission and the member states to support all forms of temporary employment'. i vote against this text of grotesque liberal dogmatism.
in writing. ‒ this text, although not perfect, is in line with our vision of enterprise and employment by putting smes back at the centre of concerns and calling for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on them to be reduced. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we vote for this report, which is in line with our approach to smes. it presents smes as a priority for employment and growth and calls for them to be at the centre of attention. the european economic structure is based mainly on smes, which are a source of new jobs and the engine of the european economy. they have created 85% of new jobs in europe over the last 10 years. and in 2015, they contributed 71 percent of the growth in employment in the non-financial market economy. it is therefore essential that the economic regulatory environment is favourable to smes by ensuring a level playing field with large enterprises, by further improving vocational education and training, and by reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on smes.
in writing. ‒ this text puts smes back at the centre of concerns and calls for the administrative and bureaucratic burden on smes to be reduced. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report entitled 'how to make the most of the job creation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises'. this paper analyses the problems faced by smes (regulatory uncertainty, heavy administrative burdens, difficulty in accessing finance). smes are the largest job creators in europe (85% of new jobs in europe over the last 10 years were created by smes). it is therefore essential to identify the problems they face and to propose solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on how to make the most of the job creation potential of smes. the report explores the conditions that would help job creation in small and medium-sized enterprises both at eu level and in the member states.
in writing. ‒ this text presents some common sense measures to alleviate the constraints on smes. nevertheless, only a national strategy based on economic patriotism, borders and a national priority could provide lasting solutions to the difficulties faced by smes, which are faced with far too brutal competition within the european union. i therefore prefer to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which analyses the problems faced by european smes and sets out some solutions to overcome them. the text identifies the following as difficulties: lack of skills (training), legal and regulatory uncertainty, access to finance and, of course, excessive administrative burdens. however, it should be noted that 85% of smes in europe have created new jobs over the last ten years, and this despite the difficulties outlined above, and especially the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis. smes are thus the engine of growth in the eu member states. the european parliament's position is clear: priority must be given to strengthening an environment conducive to the development of smes in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which analyses the problems faced by smes and proposes solutions to meet these challenges. this report lists the challenges facing smes. the lack of skills matching labour market demands, regulatory uncertainty, difficulties in accessing finance and the burden of tax and administrative burdens are the main difficulties smes have to overcome. it is crucial that smes, which are the drivers of the european economy, receive special attention and that responses are given to these challenges. i therefore supported this report because it recalls, inter alia, that the union's competition rules must guarantee a level playing field for small, medium and large enterprises and thus promote their internationalisation.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to identify the challenges facing smes and the ways in which they can be addressed. the report stresses the importance of a stable and high-quality regulatory environment, and of improving the quality of regulation and its enforcement, as the appropriate way to reduce the burden on smes, including labour costs. this is a key precondition for job sustainability and the quality job creation potential of smes. finally, the report stresses the need to ensure a level playing field for smes in view of their competitive position in relation to large enterprises. local small businesses are particularly disadvantaged by over-regulated and bureaucratized administrative systems, as these lead to higher fixed costs for businesses. other jobs in smes could be saved if entrepreneurs could avoid closing their businesses, notably because of low capitalisation, late payment by contractors, complex succession and transfer procedures, unfair competition in the underground economy and certain abusive practices by multinational companies. overall report positive. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ despite the very positive implementation of the directive in many member states, it is clear that many problems and challenges remain, such as funding, raising awareness of discrimination, access to information and justice, data collection. the social partners (trade unions and employers) and civil society need to be more involved in the effective implementation of this employment equality directive.
in writing. ‒ a new text purportedly aimed at combating discrimination denounced in particular by the lgbti lobby. poor heterosexual european man who seems to be the only one who doesn't get any attention. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it identifies a number of remaining challenges in implementing the directive, for example the need to better inform citizens about their legal rights and obligations.
in writing. ‒ when i read the title of this report 'on equal treatment in employment and work', i thought it would be consensual and not controversial. i was not surprised to find that it was not. this report succeeds in integrating all the social issues that are currently being debated in our european societies. it also deals with questions relating to the principle of secularism, including the possibility or not of wearing religious symbols in the workplace, discrimination against the disabled or the elderly, euthanasia, abortion, issues related to lgbti and transgender rights and the fight against racism. the report mixes all these elements in a sometimes confusing but often dogmatic way. unfortunately, the original subject of this report is forgotten: equal treatment between men and women, a subject which deserves to be examined and studied in its own right.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which is embarking on a race to victimize minorities (women, lgbti, migrants) without seeking to tackle the real and structural causes of mass unemployment. of course, everyone agrees that discrimination in employment has no place. but the rapporteur is misrepresenting the issue by focusing on promoting communitarianism instead of equal treatment. the priority is to fight unemployment for all, not to have extra spending for anti-racist organizations which often exclude from their fight communities "not sufficiently victimized for them", as happened recently in paris for the chinese community. although i welcome the section on disability and the reminder that everything must be done to promote the integration of disabled people into the world of work, overall the text is aimed at overproducing standards for companies, which will not promote employment and will only lead to workers being equal only in poverty.
in writing. i supported this report, which has no binding legislative value, on the implementation of the directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment. it is crucial that member states do more to combat recurrent discrimination in the labour market. however, we must not use this text to undermine the principle of subsidiarity in europe. it was important to recall in this text that the member states remain competent to determine the rules governing the wearing of religious symbols in europe in businesses and public spaces.
in writing. ‒ while some data clearly show a decline in discrimination and more and more comprehensive information on the rights of victims of discrimination, this report says exactly the opposite. it no longer seems to defend equal employment but rather communitarianism by promoting a judicial terrorism leading to a breakdown of society. on the contrary, this report stigmatises the european and makes no mention of the mass immigration that member countries have been experiencing for decades and that the eu has intensified by the arrival and settlement of millions of non-assimilatable migrants. beyond the cases of discrimination stemming from immigration, the unfortunate influence of the lgbtiq lobby is clearly felt in this report. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: it is not intended to defend equal employment. it is rather aimed at boosting communalism with the consequent fragmentation of society.
in writing. - i haven't seen such an ideological relationship in a long time. it is devoted to discrimination at work, which is supposed to be real, massive and systematic towards minorities (immigrants, roma, lgbt, disabled, etc.), a distressing reality that a statistical bias would prevent us from seeing well. why are so many immigrants coming to europe every year? i think it was a masochistic reaction. despite her distrust of the figures, ms weber uses a few, which she considers reliable because they go with her, even if they have only a tenuous relation to the subject: homosexuals who do not hold hands or jews who do not wear symbolic clothing in public, without telling us whether it is by choice or fear, and fear of whom. minorities who are or claim to be victims of discrimination. all this is mixed up in a happy confusion to promote the only legitimate and even recommended discrimination: that of european heterosexual males aged 25 to 50. we would like, since we are talking about work and minorities, for ms weber to look at the explosion of religious practices in business and the instrumentalisation of anti-discrimination laws by some to impose these practices on everyone. but now i hear his cry of fear: "padamalgame!"
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights many important principles for equality and non-discrimination in employment, but i opposed paragraph 21 of the report, which indirectly targeted france by expressing concern that some member states had introduced general bans on the wearing of religious symbols in public spaces in the name of neutrality and secularism. this paragraph was contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and to the french legislation in force, which is nevertheless perfectly legitimate in combating communitarianism, which prohibits the wearing of ostentatious religious signs in public establishments. respect for the values of the republic also prevents us from allowing communalism to flourish in the company and that is why the wearing of certain signs of a religious nature, especially when they infringe women's rights, must be prohibited by employers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the weber report on the directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment. the directive was adopted 15 years ago and was intended to establish equal conditions for access to employment. this report aims to examine the challenges still existing in the implementation of this directive and proposes some practical solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because many of its provisions are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the employment equality directive, adopted in 2000, aims to ensure equal treatment in the workplace, regardless of age, religion, belief, disability or sexual orientation. i regret that, after 16 years, some measures have not been able to produce any concrete results. i therefore fully support this report, which looks at the remaining challenges to employment equality and the ways in which it can be improved. it encourages, for example, the creation of workplaces that take into account the needs of people with disabilities, proposes the establishment of training programmes - including the development of digital skills - for older workers, or advocates better awareness of the attention of victims of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. i therefore voted for its adoption in plenary.
in writing. ‒ while everyone agrees to denounce discrimination in employment and pay, with equal qualifications, this text goes so far as to distort the fight against discrimination. according to this text, everything that is not male, heterosexual, european and healthy must benefit from special legislation to combat discrimination. we reject this benchmark and the very principle of affirmative action, preferring the idea of meritocracy. i therefore opposed the resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this text. while everyone agrees to denounce discrimination in employment and pay, with equal qualifications, this text broadens the criteria to the point of distorting the fight against discrimination. the use by the rapporteur of statistics, some of which are not directly related to the report, shows his intention to distort the substance of the subject. we reject the very principle of affirmative action, preferring the idea of meritocracy.
in writing. ‒ the employment equality directive came into force in december 2000. it establishes a framework for combating discrimination and ensuring equal treatment in employment. the report points to shortcomings in the application of this directive. it denounced the low level of awareness and the fact that most member states had delegated the responsibility for disseminating information on anti-discrimination legislation and raising public awareness to specialised national bodies without providing them with the necessary resources. it also notes that there is a wide gap between the discrimination suffered and the rate of reporting, which is regularly shown in surveys. or the fact that victims still have difficulty in recognising discrimination. the report proposes that the commission adopt a european framework to combat racism, which would take account of national strategies. it also encourages member states to provide for appropriate systems for the reintegration of prisoners who have served their sentences into the labour market. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ while everyone agrees to denounce discrimination in employment and equal pay, this text goes so far as to distort the fight against discrimination. according to this text, everything that is not male, heterosexual, european and healthy must benefit from special legislation to combat discrimination. we reject this benchmark and the very principle of affirmative action, preferring the idea of meritocracy. i therefore opposed the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the fight against discrimination is a worthy objective if we do not become hysterical and paranoid. this is what the report seems to be doing, and it raises some good questions about discrimination, particularly against homosexuals and transsexuals. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on this report. while i agree with the recommendations it makes, particularly on the employment of disabled workers, i cannot support a text which is concerned about the bans by some states on the wearing of religious signs in public spaces in the name of neutrality and secularism, which has led the private sector to try to apply such restrictions as well, whereas religious neutrality in the workplace is a bulwark against unacceptable and dangerous communal behaviour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. it reports on the results of the fourth european barometer on the subject, following the one in 2012, and finds that europeans are more tolerant than before towards groups at risk of discrimination and are now better aware of their rights in the event of discrimination. the report also examines the remaining obstacles to the implementation of the employment equality directive and possible improvements towards full equality in employment.
in writing. ‒ everyone agrees that discrimination in equal employment has no place and there is clear evidence of a decline in discrimination and increasingly comprehensive information on the rights of victims of discrimination. the report says the opposite. it is no longer intended to defend equal employment. it is rather aimed at exacerbating communitarianism by encouraging, in particular, systematic judiciarisation with the consequent fragmentation of society. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the implementation of the employment equality directive, adopted 15 years ago. according to eurobarometer surveys, discrimination in access to employment is declining and victims of discrimination are now better informed about their rights. however, some challenges still need to be addressed. like equal pay for men and women, equality in employment must be a top priority in every member state.
in writing. ‒ the employment equality directive provides a general framework to combat discrimination based on age, sexual orientation, disability, religion or belief. however, it is not sufficient to guarantee full equality in employment. many discriminations remain in the labour market, particularly in relation to women, lgbti people, older people and people with disabilities. the report aims to combat discrimination based on religion, in particular by proposing the adoption of european frameworks for the implementation of national strategies to combat anti-semitism and racism. it also called for action to promote the integration of disabled people, in particular by promoting 'smart working' models. the report also calls for the promotion of integration into the labour market for all workers, regardless of age, in particular through vocational training. finally, it called for the prevention of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, in particular by reviewing legislation and practices. since full equality in employment is an essential imperative, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes stock of the implementation of the 2007 directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment. while it is true that the vast majority of member states have enshrined in their constitutions the principle of equal treatment on specific grounds of discrimination, in practice discrimination and harassment persist throughout the union. in this sense, this report stresses the importance of protecting disabled workers from all forms of discrimination in the workplace. more generally, age, sex, sexual orientation, origin or religion should not be the source of discrimination in employment. the text calls for the role of national equality bodies to be strengthened, the principle of equality between men and women to be better implemented in employment policies, and complaint-handling mechanisms to be improved at national level.
in writing. ‒ the general principle of this report is the eu's recurrent obsession with combating discrimination, in this case in employment. the european union's fundamental rights agency reports that 40% of roma jobseekers are discriminated against; 75% of homosexuals do not hold their partner's hand in public; that 38% of the jewish respondents admitted not to wear clothing with a symbolic dimension in public; and 37% of muslims surveyed said they had been discriminated against. the use by the rapporteur of these statistics, some of which have no direct link with employment discrimination, demonstrates his intention to distort the substance of the subject. while some data clearly indicate a decline in discrimination and more and more comprehensive information on the rights of victims of discrimination, the report says the exact opposite. it is no longer intended to defend equal employment. it aims rather to boost communitarianism by, among other things, installing a judicial terrorism with the consequence of a fragmentation of society. of course, he makes no mention of the mass immigration that has been taking place in the member states for decades. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the directive of 27 november 2000, known as the 'equality at work' directive, on combating discrimination at work. it is a good tool of the european union but it is still poorly applied in the states despite its legal transposition. it is and will remain inadequate or even illusory until the transversal anti-discrimination directive is adopted. however, this proposal, proposed by the commission in 2008 and adopted by parliament in 2009, is now, like others, blocked by the council and therefore by the member states. i very much agree with the findings of this report on the increase in discrimination in the eu, particularly against women, lgbt people and on the grounds of religion "used as a substitute for race on the basis of actual or supposed membership".... the figures, including those from the fundamental rights agency, speak for themselves. i therefore voted in favour of this report, but it suggests once again that the eu should take ad hoc measures to ensure that fundamental rights are respected and that they are effectively equal, rather than concentrating on measures of austerity and liberalisation which exacerbate their violation.
in writing. ‒ at a time when major industrial accidents are being announced in the alstom and caterpillar cases, which could lead to thousands of workers being unemployed, it was essential to recall the usefulness of this system, which has an annual budget of €150 million and whose functioning can still be improved. the triggering and training procedures must be able to be accelerated so that resources can be released early enough to support employees who are made redundant in real time. with a view to changing the award criteria and the necessary reindustrialisation of europe, we called on the commissioner for employment, marianne thyssen, to give priority to a preventive approach that would allow us to anticipate technological and commercial changes better and to provide more support to upstream companies, especially smes, in a constantly changing world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up to compensate for the destructive effects of globalisation on workers. however, the jobs lost are rarely replaced by new ones, and the affected regions already have a difficult labour market. in most cases, young people are forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or businesses that are hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements, whether negotiated or to be negotiated, are the main drivers of the massive job losses in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the egf was set up in 2007 to support the reintegration of workers in disadvantaged regions and sectors through the opening up to international competition. the aim is to finance measures to support the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market as a complement to national schemes, not as a substitute for them. several problems: variable re-employment rates, difficulty in assessing efficiency and aid paid mainly to workers in large enterprises, rather than to smes or the self-employed. the problem is that the european added value of the egf remains low. while the fund is intended to increase the effectiveness of national measures, one third of the funding allocated under the egf is used to compensate for national programmes to help workers' incomes. it is nevertheless effective in supporting groups or sectors that are not recognised at national level. the gef compensates for the destructive effects of globalisation on workers, globalisation wanted by the free trade union. i voted for this text to support the workers, but i am aware of the double language of the union.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an emergency fund set up in 2006 for workers made redundant as a result of major structural change caused by globalisation or the 2008 global economic and financial crisis. in order to ensure that the workers concerned have access to rapid and personalised solutions for vocational reintegration, the union has supported numerous national or regional initiatives through this fund over the period 2007-2014. the instrument has helped to achieve an average re-employment rate of 49%. however, the outline of the egf still needs to be revised to make it more responsive and flexible in its application. and beyond the specific and one-off assistance that the fund can provide, the european union urgently needs to put in place a real strategy: it must better anticipate economic changes, preserve smes, implement a forward-looking investment policy, and equip itself with real instruments for trade defence.
in writing. ‒ the egf instrument was set up to offset the destructive effects of globalisation on workers. however, the jobs lost are rarely replaced by new ones, and the affected regions already have a difficult labour market. in most cases, young people are forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or businesses that are hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements, whether negotiated or to be negotiated, are the main drivers of the massive job losses in europe. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the harkin report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) between 2007 and 2014. the report stresses that egf interventions should be directed towards investments that contribute to growth and employment, education, skills and the geographical mobility of workers, and be coordinated with existing union programmes. finally, it is important to remember that the egf cannot in any case replace a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring; the importance of a genuine industrial policy at european union level should be emphasized.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the action of the globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support for the reintegration of workers made redundant. many french workers have benefited from this. i would remind you, however, that the union is often responsible for the disappearance of their jobs because of its ultra-liberal policies.
in writing. ‒ the egf instrument was set up to offset the destructive effects of globalisation on workers. however, the jobs destroyed are rarely replaced and when they are, they are replaced by jobs requiring other qualifications, for other profiles. hence the problem of the international division of labour and deindustrialisation. in most cases, young people are forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or businesses that are hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements, whether negotiated or to be negotiated, are the main drivers of the massive job losses in europe. however, this fund is a way for french companies to recover a (small) share of the money that the union takes from them. french agencies frequently benefit from these funds, which is why we support them. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the egf instrument was created to compensate for the harmful effects of globalisation on workers, which we have long denounced. however, the jobs destroyed are rarely replaced, and when they are, they are replaced by jobs requiring other qualifications, addressing other profiles, hence the problem of the international division of labour and deindustrialisation. young people are often forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or businesses that are hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements, whether negotiated or to be negotiated, are the main drivers of massive job losses in europe. however, this fund is a way for french companies to recover a (small) share of the money that the union takes from them. french agencies frequently benefit from these funds, which is why we are voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the european globalisation adjustment fund over the period 2007-2014. the fund provides financial assistance to employees made redundant as a result of major structural changes in international trade, whether smes are affected by the european austerity policy or large companies take advantage of the opportunity to relocate to countries with low wage costs. the report recognises at the outset that this is a patchwork of a wooden leg: the egf cannot in any case replace a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring. it supports targeted aid, with priority given to cooperatives, smes and subcontractors, older workers and young people, but it has difficulty getting to the heart of the problem: the union's commercial and industrial policy. faced with international competition, it called for favourable conditions for the relocation of industrial production within the union. we must go beyond this thinking and impose ecological and social protectionism at the frontiers. and get out of austerity and get back to business. otherwise the alstom and caterpillar cases will continue to multiply. i'm afraid i'll have to hold off.
in writing. ‒ the egf instrument was set up to offset the destructive effects of globalisation on workers. however, the jobs destroyed are rarely replaced and when they are, they are replaced by jobs requiring other qualifications, addressing other profiles, hence the problem of the international division of labour and deindustrialisation. in most cases, young people are forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or businesses that are hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements, whether negotiated or to be negotiated, are the main drivers of massive job losses in europe. however, this fund is a way for french companies to recover a (small) share of the money that the union takes from them. french agencies frequently benefit from these funds, which is why we support them. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the egf instrument was set up to offset the destructive effects of globalisation on workers. however, jobs lost are rarely replaced by new ones, and the affected regions already have a difficult labour market. in most cases, young people are forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or companies hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements, currently being negotiated or to be negotiated, are the main drivers of massive job losses in europe. i shall therefore abstain on the text itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. the fund shall support employees made redundant as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade resulting from globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. this fund was originally set up to implement solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs in large-scale redundancies due to major structural changes in world trade resulting from globalisation, where these redundancies have a negative impact on the regional and local economy, and was then extended in 2013 to employees made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crises. the report examined figures for the period 2007-2014 to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the reforms of the fund, with a view to possibly approving a renewal of the fund for the current programming period.
in writing. ‒ the egf instrument was set up to offset the destructive effects of globalisation on workers. however, the jobs lost are rarely replaced by new ones, and the affected regions already have a difficult labour market. in most cases, young people are forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or companies hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements, whether negotiated or to be negotiated, are the main drivers of massive job losses in europe. however, until a sound economic policy is put in place, there is still much needed help for firms and employees. in these circumstances, i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to help workers affected by mass redundancies, particularly in the context of social plans initiated in some large companies. on many occasions during the year, the european parliament grants financial assistance under this fund to people who have lost their jobs, for example to help them with training or vocational retraining. i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014, identifying its strengths and weaknesses, with a view to enhancing its effectiveness in the current programming period (2014-2020).
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was launched in 2007 and aims to balance the overall long-term benefits of trade liberalisation for growth and jobs with the potential short-term negative effects of globalisation, in particular on the employment of the most vulnerable and least skilled workers. the reports show that at the end of the period of implementation of the egf, 7 656 workers, or 44.9% of the 18 848 workers who received assistance from the fund, had either returned to work or were self-employed. the union must continue its actions to improve these figures and promote employment and training. i voted in favour of this report, which provides an assessment of the functioning of the egf and calls in particular on the commission and the member states to use the more flexible and more efficient implementation possibilities for the egf budget. it is important to distinguish between the two main types of egf measures, active labour market measures and income support for workers. the egf is an important european instrument providing practical support for employment and training.
in writing. ‒ the egf instrument was set up to offset the destructive effects of globalisation on workers. however, the jobs lost are rarely replaced by new ones, and the affected regions already have a difficult labour market. in most cases, young people are forced to move and older people are unemployed. moreover, it is recognised that many regions or businesses that are hit hard by globalisation are actually victims of trade policies decided at eu level: free trade agreements currently being negotiated or to be negotiated are the main drivers of the massive job losses in europe. however, this fund is a way to get our money back. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this evaluation of the globalisation adjustment fund points to the fact that an increasing number of cases handled by the european fund are linked to the restructuring of large companies. in my view, however, it is not acceptable that public money should be used to finance measures to restore employment following redundancies whose sole purpose is to increase the profits of the undertakings concerned and the dividends paid to their shareholders. i remain reserved about the overall logic of this fund which only reimburses the states for a significant part of the financing of restructuring and even often of relocations which they did not know or wanted to prevent. it is never asked whether these social plans could have been avoided or whether the unions were actually consulted, nor is it checked whether the employees concerned have found a job. so i chose to abstain.
madam president, this morning, during the debate on the weber report on the implementation of the equal employment directive, i was unable to finish my speech because i was interrupted by some false statements by mr lavrilleux. while i welcomed the union's desire to put an end to discrimination and to promote pluralism, i thought it appropriate to point out that the elected representatives of the enf group, of which i am a member, are themselves regularly the victims of manoeuvres by their eurolat colleagues in the european parliament's committee on culture and education. our amendments are constantly censured, even when they correspond to the general policy guidelines desired by the majority groups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not discriminated against. i was deeply moved and therefore, as the rules say, i was unable to finish my speech because i had exceeded the legal time limit, whereas nothing was said against mr lavrilleux who was able to interrupt me without a reminder. i have no lessons to learn from a man whose integrity can be questioned, especially in france, since at this hour we are all waiting for the end of the bygmalion case that implicates him. i wanted to explain myself, and i thank you for giving me this opportunity, madam president.
in writing. tennis, football, basketball, boxing - so many sports are tainted by the mafia who organize rigged matches to enrich themselves. recently, europol, the european police agency, revealed the existence of the largest ever investigation into alleged match-fixing. he suspects a criminal network, based in asia with connections in europe, of having rigged 380 football matches played between 2008 and 2011, across 15 countries. initially, most of the world's major criminal organizations got involved in sports betting to launder money from drugs, arms sales or prostitution. the criminal world knows that to make money clean, you have to be willing to lose 30 to 40% of your dirty money. betting on sports money is a way to reduce risk. it is necessary for the eu member states to participate in the establishment of the monitoring system and the development of operational cooperation under the convention as soon as it enters into force. for these reasons, and in the spirit of sport, let us ratify and sign the texts to combat the scourge of fraudulent betting as soon as possible.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, yesterday a referendum was held in hungary to ask the hungarians whether they wanted the european union to make it compulsory to set up refugee quotas in the country. the hungarians voted with a vote , but not in sufficient numbers for the result of this referendum to be valid. it's a victory for those who called for the boycott. what concerns us and what we want to debate are the conditions of this campaign, in the light of european and international human rights rules and, in particular, the geneva convention. i have in my hands the posters of the official campaign called "tudta?" the proposals are appalling in that they manipulate amalgamations, particularly between terrorism and immigration. i will give an example: 'brussels wants to set up the equivalent of a city of illegal immigrants in hungary'. the quota in hungary, if it had been accepted, is 1 294 persons. it's a really small town, if not a village. that's 0.01% of the hungarian population, not enough to shake hungary's values, it seems to me. are such lies worthy of the values of the european union? i think that the european parliament should at least debate this and get the commission's opinion, as well as developments in immigration and asylum legislation. that is why we want a debate on this subject, mr president, and we ask that the european parliament should decide by a public vote.
i've called for a public vote.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank our colleague, mr norbert neuser, for his work and for the excellent cooperation he has shown on this matter. this report is important because it sets out our priorities for the future of our relations with the acp countries and will, i hope, provide guidance to the european commission in its proposals. i am convinced that we must use and improve the cotonou acquis to meet the new global challenges, such as migration and climate change. we can't start from scratch. we must move forward and develop what already exists. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the acp countries. i believe it is important to place our post-2020 partnership in the context of the new sustainable development goals and to insist that human rights and good governance are the cornerstones of our partnership with the acp countries. if we call for budgetization of the european development fund in our report, this must be subject to two preconditions. firstly, the maintenance of the existing envelopes and, secondly, the creation of an instrument to finance security expenditure linked to development. i share the view that there can be no development without peace and that security is a prerequisite for development. so we need a tool that can help us address these issues. in this respect, i am pleased that the report supports the idea of withdrawing the overseas countries and territories from the european development fund and proposes the creation of a specific financial instrument for them. this is a new step which should lead, as from 2020, to a better reaffirmation of the european membership of our overseas countries and territories and to promoting their role as ambassadors of the european union by defending our values in neighbouring developing countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the very notion of a development community entails the notion of borders and regulation of the internal market. the customs union, the community of europe, was originally designed to protect itself like any other economic zone. the report by my colleague from sarnez rightly stressed the need for an internal african market. i stress that he must be protected. that's the protection you refuse. but can we give lessons of development from the failure of development at home and our approach to a market without frontiers, to free and undistorted competition, which has brought us to where we are, namely, on the edge of the european economic precipice? this approach, this ideological approach to the market, which is destroying jobs in our country and increasing the north-south disparities in our country, is what the commission wants to impose on africa and other continents. it's not working. we want to go even further until europe and africa implode. the commission is not content to destroy the north-south development of europe, it also wants to destroy the north-south development of europe's neighbours, africa and the countries of southern europe. we must say no to these agreements. the developing world is watching us. the lomé agreements were based on protectionism for development. the cotonou agreements already opened up this crazy idea of the free fox in the free henhouse to get development. some countries refuse. this is blackmail at the opening of our borders, this is neo-colonialism. shame on the commission, shame on us, if we accept these agreements.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, special report no 13/2015 of the european court of auditors describes the failure of the european programme to support timber-producing countries in the fight against illegal logging. this scourge threatens not only the world's forest heritage but also the indigenous peoples who depend on the forest for their livelihood. the reasons for this illegal slaughter are varied. first, in indonesia, a large number of trees are being cut down to make way for plantations for paper or palm oil, thus destroying biodiversity. in south america, illegal logging is used to export timber to organizations that sometimes have ties to corrupt officials, who, of course, want to enrich themselves by supplying the international demand for timber. the loggers are being persecuted while they are victims of a system that exploits them, and of course the decision-makers are never arrested. in addition to corruption, the fight against illegal logging is not always the priority of the government of the country in question. the expansion of palm oil or soybean fields to support intensive agriculture is part of the problem. finally, the last problem is that of the traceability of products on the market. for example, 80 to 90 percent of peru's timber exported to china and other asian markets is illegal, representing a loss of approximately eur 86 million. finally, i think that expanding and strengthening the traceability imperative would be a good solution. given the complexity of the problem, knowing where the wood comes from and knowing the logging company is obviously a credible and entirely feasible solution.
mr president, the european union was built against the will of the people. she's paying him a lot of money today. after the british people voted for brexit, it is now the turn of the hungarian people to give them a lesson in direct democracy. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations for the accession of hungary to the european union. even if only 40 percent of registered voters turned out, that's a clean slate. the consequence is clear: the european plan to relocate 160,000 migrants will not be implemented. it is a resounding victory for the people over the insane immigration policy planned by brussels. 60 years after its revolt against the soviet union, hungary revolted against the european union. the european soul is still alive, the resistance to the destruction of national identities is being organised. tomorrow, france will give the union the final blow by voting in a referendum in favour of frexit.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mrs jourová and the members who have just spoken are all clearly in favour of this draft directive, and i regret that i have to break this fine consensus. what's this about? the aim of this directive is to guarantee access to a lawyer for all persons prosecuted for criminal offences. in particular, it is a matter of forcing states to provide legal aid to people who are too poor to pay their lawyer in full. so, in itself, legal aid is obviously a good system, but the states do not need the european union to enforce it. if i take the example of france, you should know that this system is introduced in our country by a law of 22 january 1851. that is, if france is two centuries ahead of you. the european union's inherent interference in this text is based in particular on article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which provides precisely for this right to legal aid. but it is precisely the invoking of this charter, which i consider to be a highly questionable instrument, that is problematic. if we really want to protect human rights at european level, i think the european convention for the protection of human rights is more than enough. in reality, the charter is a wolf for human rights. he's the ultra-liberal wolf in the human rights fold. the justification for interference is given in the directive. the aim, she said, was 'to build confidence in the criminal justice systems of other member states'. i think that the objective has been missed, however, because this interference is taking on such proportions in criminal matters that it will certainly cause concern among the peoples of europe. you have learned nothing from brexit, and you have learned nothing from the hungarian referendum of 2 october. you also say that this text applies to the european mandate, which is not reassuring. the european mandate is a much less protective system than extradition. in french law, extradition is not a judge-to-judge procedure, but a procedure involving the judges, the investigating chamber, on the one hand, and the government, the decree, on the other. this means that the individual has two chances instead of one to escape extradition. in the final analysis, this text is a regression and, in my view, does not represent any progress at all.
in writing. i would like to thank our rapporteur denis de jong, but also my fellow fictitious rapporteurs, for our good cooperation throughout this dossier. the negotiations were long and difficult, but we have managed to reach an agreement that can be supported by all. we have chosen to be ambitious by going further than the european commission's proposal. our work will ensure common minimum standards for access to legal aid throughout the criminal proceedings. the adoption of this text thus gives concrete expression to the right of access to a lawyer already promoted in europe for suspects and accused persons deprived of their liberty. this legislation completes the range of european instruments strengthening the procedural rights of european citizens. this in a coherent area of freedom, security and justice in europe. but much progress still needs to be made. one case has been on the negotiating table for far too long: that of the european public prosecutor. i therefore call on the council to move forward with this text. the europe of justice will remain an illusion until we have completed this dossier.
madam president, it is an act of civilization to forbid the supply of products, medicines and poisons intended for torture or death. that is the meaning of our support for this text. let us continue to work for the abolition of the death penalty wherever it exists in the world. we will also have to review our trade policies so that countries which provide inhumane treatment do not receive any preferential trade treatment. to do this, we must have the courage to use all the clauses in the partnership agreements to ensure respect for human rights and democracy by suspending these trade or association agreements, as well as all military cooperation, whenever evidence of torture or inhuman treatment is found. this is the condition of the globalization of human progress.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
in writing. ‒ on 30 september, the member states agreed that the european union should swiftly adopt the paris agreement without waiting for its 28 member states to ratify it. we welcome the fact that this agreement was approved in plenary today. the paris agreement will therefore enter into force at cop 22 in marrakech from 7 to 18 november. this is a historic moment for the planet: the international community will be able to lead the fight of the century against climate change. a year ago, the european parliament called for legally binding climate targets, accompanied by robust financial tools. the ambition is there: on the substance, and also by the speed of adoption by the union! it is now up to all of us to make it the starting point of a new european ambition: this requires a european budget that is up to the task, with its own resources, to achieve the ecological and economic transition and to make europe's commitments a reality. this fight is just beginning.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreements reached after cop 21 are paved with good intentions. i opposed it with my colleagues from the national front, because the major consequence of it would be to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe, which would be reduced to a shipping area for products manufactured under harsh environmental and social conditions. such an agreement is not credible given the high pollution levels of the united states and china compared to those of european countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european union has played a central role in the negotiation of this agreement and that it is therefore right that it should conclude it now. in the coming months, our challenge will be to update the european climate law. however, we should not seek to destroy the entrepreneurial spirit by imposing too many restrictive measures and gradually force european industry to flee beyond our borders.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the council the green light to ratify the paris agreement resulting from cop21. on the main points, i remain opposed to the paris agreement's tartuferie which will serve above all to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to make it a mere cargo area for manufactured goods produced outside the old continent under overwhelming social and environmental conditions. indeed, it seems to me to be completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china (which plans to increase its pollution) and especially the united states have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent.
in writing. ‒ as hell is paved with good intentions, i chose to abstain on this report which envisages letting the council ratify the paris agreement resulting from cop21. while the environmental objectives are laudable, the constraints europe chooses to impose on its industries are of little weight compared with the economic strategies of china, which, although it has ratified the agreement, has already planned to increase its pollution. the same is true for the united states, which has sent a strong political signal by ratifying the agreement, but has still not reached european levels of pollution in terms of tonnes of co2 equivalent per capita. finally, i understand that the union is playing the clock here, since its status at the next icao world summit in montreal depends on ratification. the precautionary principle does not seem to apply to our industrial policies.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give the council its backing for the ratification of the paris agreements resulting from cop 21. it is expected to enter into force on the 30th day after at least 55 parties to the convention, representing at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, have deposited their instruments of ratification with the united nations. the european union must ratify the agreement before 7 october, when a meeting of the parties in montreal announces its entry into force. we are opposed to the paris agreement which will help to accelerate deindustrialization in europe. indeed, it is counterproductive to commit to decarbonising our economies until china and the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2 equivalent per capita. these states use environmental dumping as a tool to preserve their industries and, above all, their jobs. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change (cop 21) is a historic agreement. it now has 177 signatories, a record for global climate agreements. this binding agreement provides for effective and long-term measures to keep the global temperature increase well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels, while striving to limit the increase to 1.5°c. the european parliament had to give its approval to this agreement in order for the european union to become a full signatory. i voted in favour of this historic agreement.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the paris cop agreement in december 2015 is a historic act symbolizing the commitment of all countries of the world to reduce global warming caused by human activities. from words to deeds, it is now time to implement the commitments made at the summit. i fully support the ratification of cop 21 by the member states and the union, which will allow the agreement to enter into force. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. for the cop21 paris agreement to enter into force, 55 parties to the unfccc, representing an estimated total of at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, had to ratify it. following parliament's approval, we were able to reach these thresholds and start the procedure for implementing the agreement. because the fight against climate change is a fight we must fight together, i voted in favour of this resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. the entry into force of the paris agreement is a historic event providing our planet with a legally binding framework to contain the temperature rise to 1.5°c.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has ratified the paris agreement, which is a major step forward in the fight against climate change, and i welcome it. i hope that the states will also commit themselves swiftly to comprehensive and coordinated action for the environment. the agreement includes a number of concrete measures, such as the development of clean energy through the phase-out of fossil fuels, global balance sheets every 5 years from 2023 and the upward revision of ambitions over time, a legislative framework that promotes transparency and accountability and appropriate measures for financing the fight against global warming. i support all these measures and am convinced that they will enable a common management of the world's difficulties and problems.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this text, which will make concrete progress in the fight against climate change. it highlights important points: the participation of all in the collective effort to reduce greenhouse gases, the need to rely on aggressive diplomacy and innovative financial instruments. on this point, my group has pushed for the establishment of a dedicated financial transaction, which has been criticised by the right-wing forces. as co-chair of the intergroup on public services, i had, before this report was drawn up, alerted the envi committee, which was responsible for the substance of the matter, to the need to articulate the challenges of combating global warming and the values of public service, so that the energy transition does not come at the expense of the poorest and most isolated.
in writing. one year after the cop21 summit, the european parliament ratified the paris agreement, paving the way for its entry into force. this is a very important moment for the planet. the legally binding agreement commits 195 states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to limit global warming to 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. with the parliament's vote, the european union joins the countries that have already ratified the agreement, such as the united states, india and china, thus reaching the threshold of 55 states parties representing at least 55% of global emissions necessary for its entry into force. the next major climate conference, to be held in marrakech in early november, should be an opportunity to continue along this path and consolidate the gains of the paris agreement. we can already be proud of the progress made, but we must remain vigilant and demanding about the reality of what will be done to actually reduce global warming.
in writing. ‒ i voted against ratifying the paris climate agreement. what is presented to us as a binding agreement is in fact only what roman law called a petition of principle. there is no legal obligation for states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, no sanctions or financial incentives. there is no reliable and binding way of verifying and measuring the reality of the efforts to which the signatories have committed themselves. i think that the speed with which the united states, china, brazil and india, among the most polluting countries in the world, ratified this agreement, even before the european union, is a sign of its declaratory character. at least for these countries. the european union, for its part, has always been keen to set a global example of virtue. the cost of this was the continent's deindustrialisation and mass unemployment. but in the end, the disastrous carbon footprint of its imports (production methods, long-distance transport) annihilates its efforts as a good student. the result will be no gain for the planet, but only new economic and social problems for europeans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which will allow the paris agreement to be ratified. the paris agreement is a success. but success must not stop there! climate diplomacy by the member states and the european union must continue to be intensified so that it becomes a natural part of our relations with other countries. ratification must be swift, because the implementation of each of the national contributions must be followed by concrete effects. we know the effects of climate change on migration, food security, access to resources, water and energy, the spread of disease and social and economic instability. it is therefore essential that the monitoring of climate change involves all actors, public and private.
in writing. i gave my full support to the historic agreement on climate change reached in paris last year. the time has now come for countries that have ratified the agreement to step up their commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in order to keep average global warming well below 2 degrees celsius. the debate will now focus on the tools to be used to make this agreement operational and up to the challenge. to achieve these goals, i support the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, for example by setting a floor price for a tonne of carbon or reforming the european carbon trading system. the establishment of a genuine circular economy and the boosting of renewable energy are also interesting ways of doing things. in addition, it is essential to eliminate subsidies to the fossil fuel sector, which will eventually lead to the abandonment of fossil fuels. efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport and agriculture also need to be stepped up. finally, the issue of climate refugees deserves our full attention.
in writing. ‒ our view on the harmful effects of the paris agreement remains unchanged. these will continue the deindustrialisation of europe and undermine social and environmental structures already well established in our countries. the strategy to 'decarbonise' our economy only weakens us further in the face of much larger and more harmful countries like china and the us, which have been careful to keep up with european pollution levels. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr giovanni la via, on the ratification of the paris agreement by the european union. through a unique joint ratification process, we formally endorsed and signed the paris agreement, which aims to keep global warming below 2°c and to continue efforts to limit temperature rise to 1.5°c. i welcome this vote which makes the european union a major player in the fight against global warming. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement because it is a major agreement for the global issue of global warming. the vote will enable the european union to notify the un of its ratification at the same time as several member states. it is important that the european union is a leader on environmental issues.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because, while the paris agreement is well-intentioned, it will serve above all to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to turn it into a dumping ground for products manufactured in third countries under overwhelming social and environmental conditions. it is completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china (which plans to increase its pollution) and especially the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of this report, which validates the ratification of the paris agreement, negotiated at cop 21 last december. the ratification by the european union will allow the two un-set thresholds (55 countries and 55% of co2 emissions) to be met within one month of the agreement's entry into force. this positive vote is a concrete commitment by the european union and its member states to voluntary and realistic targets in the fight against climate change at global level: a strong gesture for the future of the planet and that of our children!
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement to limit global warming sets the objective of limiting global warming to below 2 degrees. beyond the un intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) believes that the consequences of global warming will be out of control. to meet this threshold, each signatory country commits to reducing its carbon emissions according to its level of responsibility and wealth. each country will have to submit its contributions every 5 years to achieve this joint effort. finally, to pay their 'climate debt', the rich northern countries pledge to mobilise $100 billion a year in aid for adaptation to the consequences of global warming. to enter into force, the agreement would require the signature of 55 countries representing 55% of global emissions. without the european union, 62 countries representing 51.89% of emissions had already signed the agreement, including the united states, china and india. with the ratification of the european union's commitment which i supported in this vote, it will be done.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change. the main purpose of this text will be to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to turn it into a dumping ground for products manufactured under harsh social and environmental conditions. it is completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china (which plans to increase its pollution) and especially the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report, which proposes to give the council the green light to ratify the paris agreements resulting from cop21. we are opposed to these agreements, regardless of the ratification procedures. they will, above all, accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe, turning it into a gigantic market for manufactured goods produced in overwhelming socio-environmental conditions. finally, it is completely illusory to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' as long as the other industrial and commercial powers do not join the race. china (which plans to increase its pollution) and the united states are far from reaching european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2 equivalent per capita.
in writing. ‒ following the agreement reached on 30 september by the environment ministers of the 28 member states, the european parliament today delivered its opinion on the paris climate agreement. thanks to a large majority, in which i participated, the european commission should ratify the paris agreement quickly without having to go through the ratification of each member state. to enter into force, the agreement had to be ratified by at least 55 states representing more than 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions. today, the 28 member states of the european union join the 62 countries that have already ratified the agreement and account for 52% of global greenhouse gas emissions. with the ratification of the paris agreement by the european union, it will enter into force at the 22nd un climate conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november. i congratulate myself.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the text is intended to enable the council to ratify the paris agreement resulting from cop21. the agreement calls for the deindustrialisation of europe and risks turning our continent into a dumping ground for manufactured goods produced under scandalous social and environmental conditions, something we oppose. furthermore, it is counterproductive to continue our efforts to "decarbonise the economy" as long as china and the usa remain well above the european thresholds on the value of co2 per capita.
in writing. ‒ cop 21, despite its inevitable limitations, is an undeniable success of multilateral climate diplomacy. and in this perspective, the decision of the 28 member states of the european union to collectively ratify the paris agreement is a very positive expression of european integration and the union's assertion as a central actor in this green diplomacy. it is essential that states remain committed to the implementation of the agreement. with this ratification, the paris agreement will enter into force at cop 22 in morocco. rapid ratification is a key factor in its successful implementation, and 62 states representing 52% of global greenhouse gas emissions have already ratified the agreement. i therefore voted in favour of ratification without reservation.
in writing. ‒ the eu is a full party to the cop 21 paris agreement on climate change in addition to its 28 member countries. however, the current rules do not allow it to ratify the agreement before all 28 member states have done so. some members (such as france) have already ratified the agreement, while others are delaying the deadline (poland). the report proposes to allow the eu to ratify the paris agreement before it has been ratified by all member states. this allows the eu to ratify the agreement before its scheduled entry into force, 30 days after it has been ratified by at least 55 countries representing 55% of emissions. the eu would be allowed to sit on the un decision-making body which will organise the next stage of the agreement on 7 november at cop22 in marrakech. in the end, therefore, the main aim is to enable the eu to obtain a full seat in a un body. this will also allow it to take pride in having ratified an outdated agreement, since the goal of limiting warming to 2°c has already been circumvented and exceeded. all for this! i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the council the green light to ratify the paris agreement resulting from cop21. on the main issues, we remain opposed to the paris agreement, which will serve above all to accelerate the deindustrialisation of europe and to turn it into a freight zone for products manufactured under overwhelming social and environmental conditions. it is completely counterproductive to pursue the committed strategy of 'decarbonising the eu economy' until china and especially the us have reached european levels of pollution in tonnes of co2/capita equivalent. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to give the council the green light to ratify the paris agreement, which will enter into force when at least 55 countries representing 55% of global gas emissions have ratified it. china and the united states have already ratified the agreement, thus speeding up the implementation process. the council may ratify the agreement on behalf of the eu only with the consent of the european parliament. however, this agreement is highly questionable as it risks accelerating the deindustrialisation of eu countries and giving even more competitiveness to countries that have chosen not to ratify it. the united states and china do not have the same per capita co2 emission requirements. finally, this competence should be vested in the states alone and not in the eu. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the conclusion of the paris agreement on behalf of the european union. the international community's mobilization in the fight against global warming is necessary and must not stop. i therefore welcome the adoption of this agreement, which provides for keeping global warming well below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels and for continuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°c. from now on, we'll have to watch very carefully. the commission will also be supporting the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, including the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the european union's ratification of the paris agreement. the vote will allow the regulation to enter into force at the 22nd united nations climate conference, which will be held in marrakesh from 7 to 18 november. to enter into the agreement, it had to be ratified by at least 55 states representing more than 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions. with 63 countries accounting for 64% of global greenhouse gas emissions, the tally is good. this is a first victory. never before has an international agreement been ratified so quickly by the signatory countries.
in writing. ‒ protecting the environment is a priority for all. but the european union does not have to ratify international agreements; it is for the sovereign states to decide democratically what they wish to commit themselves to. the european union's zeal is counterproductive: it imposes strict standards on its members, but opens its market to countries that produce according to much more flexible criteria. the european union is thus actually contributing to the pollution of the planet by encouraging the industry of polluting third countries and the long-distance transport of ever greater quantities of goods. customs barriers to protect the environment and local producers would be much more effective than this type of agreement. it is inconsistent to be away from cop21 while negotiating tafta. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european union ratifying the paris climate agreement signed in december 2015. this agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change, is a universal and binding text. if the states party to the agreement respect it, its implementation will increase the necessary fight against global warming.
‒ 4 october 2016 is a big day. i voted for the eu to ratify the paris agreement, which is the culmination of a long battle for binding targets to fight, together at global level, the greatest challenge of the 21st century, global warming. with the adoption of the paris agreement in the european parliament, as the un secretary-general ban ki-moon said, we are making history by bringing it into force. it is a great step for humanity and the planet and as a member of the european parliament i am proud that the european union has played a leading role in bringing this agreement to fruition. now we must look to the future, the entry into force of the paris agreement is only the beginning of a long struggle. this vote is not a mere formality but a political signal to translate our commitments into action. at european level, several pieces of legislation are on the table to translate the paris agreement, and parliament will have to live up to the challenge by adopting ambitious emission reduction targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's approval of the paris agreement. the agreement marks a historic turning point in the global fight against climate change. limiting the rise in global temperatures is ensured by confirming the warming threshold below 2°c, as well as setting an ambitious indicative target of 1.5°c. the planned nationally determined contributions (ndcs) of the signatory parties ensure global and collective action, while a new dynamic mechanism will allow the objectives set by the agreement to be revised upwards every five years. the text also provides for a strengthened transparency and accountability framework. finally, the agreement includes a solidarity clause requiring industrialised countries to finance aid to poor countries vulnerable to rising temperatures. the european parliament's approval of the paris agreement opens the way for the european union to ratify the text. this act demonstrates europe's leading role in the fight against climate change and its unwavering commitment to the clean energy transition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which constitutes the european parliament's ratification of the paris agreement concluded at the end of cop21 in december 2015. the agreement is the first universal and legally binding global climate agreement in terms of environmental protection and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. this ratification must be followed by concrete and effective implementation involving and involving all public and private actors. the european union must continue to be a central international actor and a leader in the fight against climate change. this agreement is a step in the european union's action, not an end in itself.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement, concluded in december 2015 at cop 21, is a historic agreement. it sets binding standards to stop the ravages of climate change, as illustrated by the increase in the number of people displaced by climate change. with this ratification, the european union, through the voice of its parliament, is living up to this historic requirement. by limiting the rise in temperature to less than 1.5°c and the emission of greenhouse gases, this agreement commits the international community to the future, even if the means of this transition to a new model of development that is more sustainable and decarbonised still have to be implemented in order to combat climate warming effectively. this should not be the latest good intention, but a new stage in an ambitious european strategy which requires a substantial european budget with its own resources to achieve the ecological and economic transition and to make europe's commitments a reality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report containing a decision of the european parliament and of the council to mobilise the european solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which mobilises the solidarity fund to the tune of eur 1.7 million to help greece, which was struck by a magnitude 6.1 earthquake in the leucadia and kefalonia islands in november 2015, damaging 120 homes, 20 of which were completely destroyed, and causing considerable damage to public buildings and infrastructure (hospitals, ports, churches, etc.). according to the greek authorities, the damage amounted to eur 66 million, or 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, which is above the threshold of 1,5% of gdp for classification as a natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the solidarity fund to help victims and compensate for damage caused, in particular to the road network, by the earthquake that struck leucade island in november 2015.
in writing. ‒ i did not, of course, oppose the mobilisation of €1.7 million from the eu solidarity fund to help greece following the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. the greek authorities estimate the damage at 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, whether it concerns housing or public infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the payment of eur 1 651 834 to greece from the european union solidarity fund, since that is what the fund is for, to deal with this kind of unforeseeable disaster and its disastrous consequences. we remember the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that hit the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. the greek authorities estimated the cost of this tragic event at 66 million euros, or 2.1% of the region's gdp. this is well above the threshold of 1.5% of gdp for a regional natural disaster. beyond expressing my full solidarity with the greek people, i would also like to point out that the financing of this aid is ensured by the payment appropriations already entered in the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to compensate victims of the earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia. the natural disaster criteria are met and the amounts mentioned are already entered in the 2016 budget. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to the tune of eur 1.7 million to help greece financially overcome the damage caused by an earthquake of 6.1 on the richter scale, which hit the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. in total, more than 120 homes were destroyed by the earthquake, not to mention the extensive damage to public infrastructure such as hospitals, ports, and churches. the greek authorities estimate the cost of the damage at eur 66 million, or 2.1% of the gdp of the region concerned, exceeding the natural disaster threshold of 1.5%. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ a devastating earthquake struck the greek ionian islands on the 17th of november 2015. it caused a lot of damage to people, but also to infrastructure and tourist sites. the european union solidarity fund was set up in 2002 to respond to major natural disasters. the mobilisation of this fund was therefore justified in order to provide aid to the affected areas. the sum of eur 1 651 834 will be paid to greece to cover part of the direct damage caused by the disaster. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to grant financial assistance following the earthquake in greece on 17 november 2015 in the ionian islands region. the earthquakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale and caused very significant human and material damage. at the request of greece, the european commission has already granted an advance of 10% of the expected financial contribution, with the balance to be paid amounting to eur 1 487 036. considering that the european union must support european citizens who are victims of natural disasters and must participate in the reconstruction effort, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. the purpose of this solidarity fund is to enable the european union to provide effective assistance to a member state facing damage caused by a major natural disaster. he is therefore fully qualified to be deployed to the ionian islands. the earthquake of magnitude 6.1 on the richter scale that struck these islands caused catastrophic damage. considerable damage was caused to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. the beaches of the ionian islands, which are a major source of tourist income for the region, were also destroyed by the earthquake. in order to enable the local population to rebuild their cities and their economic apparatus, we must support the decision of the european parliament and the council to mobilise eur 1 651 834 for greece.
in writing. the earthquake that struck the ionian islands region of greece in november 2015 caused very significant damage. many port and road infrastructure have been destroyed, and cultural sites have been severely damaged. it is natural that the union should be able to help the disaster areas and show solidarity with the people affected. the eu's financial assistance of €1.65 million to greece will help rebuild infrastructure, reimburse the costs of the rescue measures and cover part of the clean-up operations. it will help the local people to recover from the disaster, rebuild and relaunch tourism.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the solidarity fund is to be mobilised to provide €1.7 million to help greece following the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and kefalonia in november 2015.
in writing. ‒ the earthquake in greece last november, which caused considerable damage, justifies the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. in addition, the estimated damage caused exceeds the threshold for qualification as a regional natural disaster, and the payment appropriations to finance the aid are already in the 2016 budget. all the criteria were therefore met for me to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague georgios kyrtsos on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for greece following the 2015 earthquake in the ionian islands. on 18 march 2016, at the request of greece, the commission granted an advance of eur 164 798, representing 10% of the expected financial contribution from the fund. after deduction of the amount already paid as the 10% advance, the balance to be paid amounts to eur 1 487 036. i welcome this decision, which should help to rebuild the damage caused by the earthquake.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to mobilise the european union's european solidarity fund to help greece following a devastating earthquake in november 2015, in the name of the necessary solidarity between eu member states in the face of natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the solidarity fund to provide €1.7 million to help greece following the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that struck its islands in november 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. this earthquake of magnitude 6.1 struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia. 120 homes were damaged, 20 of them completely destroyed, and considerable damage was also caused to public infrastructure (hospitals, ports, churches, etc.). the greek authorities estimate the direct damage caused at eur 66 million, or 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, which is above the threshold for qualification as a regional natural disaster (1,5%).
in writing. ‒ in november 2015, an earthquake measuring 6.1 on the richter scale struck the islands of leucadia and kefalonia. private homes, public hospitals, churches, the number of damaged or destroyed infrastructure is impressive. the greek authorities estimated the direct damage caused at €66 million, or 2.1% of the region's gdp, above the 1.5% threshold required for a natural disaster. the aim is to mobilise the eu solidarity fund of €1.7 million. the financing of this aid shall be ensured by the payment appropriations already entered in the 2016 budget. i voted for the mobilisation of this fund, which is logical.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this is to provide financial assistance of eur 1,7 million to greek citizens living in the region of the ionian islands following the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. we express our customary reservations about the european globalisation adjustment fund, which should not be used to replace the actions of the government, which already benefits from the large financial support from the eu budget through different funds. however, we cannot oppose this financial aid to european citizens who have lost their homes, their access to hospitals, ports, churches and other essential infrastructure. finally, we would rather support the citizens of a member state that has suffered a natural disaster than waste the eu budget in helping illegal migrants, through the other european funds for greece!
in writing. ‒ the ionian islands were hit by an earthquake of 6.1 on the richter scale last year. greece has estimated direct damage at over 66 million and will spend 38 million on rebuilding transport infrastructure and 7 million on affected cultural sites. the commission is proposing to provide 1.6 million in aid through the 'solidarity fund' set up for states and their regions affected by natural disasters, which are increasing with the climate change caused by our production and consumption patterns. so it's a very small amount of aid in terms of damages. however, 48 million remained in the fund to cover the remaining months of 2016. i am voting for the release of this emergency aid, although i regret that the amount is so small.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to mobilise the solidarity fund to the tune of eur 1.7 million to help greece following the earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. the greek authorities estimate the direct damage at eur 66 million or 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, which is above the threshold for qualification as a regional natural disaster (1,5%). the financing of this aid shall be ensured by the payment appropriations already entered in the 2016 budget. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the tune of eur 1.7 million to help greece following the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. 120 homes were damaged, 20 of them completely destroyed, and considerable damage was also caused to public infrastructure (hospitals, ports, churches, etc.). the greek authorities estimate the direct damage caused at eur 66 million, or 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, which is above the threshold for qualification as a regional natural disaster (1,5%). the financing of this aid shall be ensured by the payment appropriations already entered in the 2016 budget. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the mobilisation of the solidarity fund of €1.7 million to help greece following the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were totally destroyed, and considerable damage also affected public infrastructure (hospitals, ports, churches, etc.). the greek authorities estimate the direct damage caused at eur 66 million, or 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, which is above the threshold for qualification as a regional natural disaster (1,5%). the financing of this aid shall be ensured by the payment appropriations already entered in the 2016 budget. i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. these earthquakes, measuring 6.1 on the richter scale, resulted in the death of 2 people and considerable property damage. the european union must show solidarity when a poorly developed region is hit by a violent natural event.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the kyrtos report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. solidarity between member states is needed more than ever. in the face of human tragedies or natural disasters, the european union can provide essential financial support for the moral and material reconstruction of the hard-hit countries and european citizens. greece was unfortunately and tragically hit by an earthquake in the autumn of 2015. as this country has already been hit hard by the economic crisis and then fully mobilized in the face of the migration crisis, it was important for me, and for the european parliament, to help them.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to mobilise the solidarity fund to the tune of eur 1.7 million to help greece following the magnitude 6.1 earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. one hundred and twenty homes were damaged, twenty of them completely destroyed, and considerable damage was also caused to public infrastructure (hospitals, ports, churches, etc.). the greek authorities estimate the direct damage caused at eur 66 million, or 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, which is above the threshold for qualifying as a regional natural disaster (1,5%). the financing of this aid shall be ensured by the payment appropriations already entered in the 2016 budget. in these circumstances, i therefore vote in favour of the proposed aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting financial assistance to greece from the european union solidarity fund to help the areas affected by the earthquake in november 2015 in the ionian islands in the country. the death toll, the number of injured and the number of homes destroyed were the result of this catastrophic episode in these areas. i am pleased to see that the union is showing its solidarity by making a concrete contribution to this phase of reconstruction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to provide financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to greece, which was hit by an earthquake on 17 november 2015. the ionian islands were struck by earthquakes measuring 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed and direct damage was estimated at €66.073 billion by the greek authorities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the funds will be used to rebuild the damaged infrastructure and cultural and natural sites severely affected by the earthquake.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to mobilise the solidarity fund to the tune of eur 1.7 million to help greece following the earthquake that struck the islands of leucadia and cephalonia in november 2015. 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were totally destroyed, and considerable damage also affected public infrastructure (hospitals, ports, churches, etc.). the greek authorities estimate the direct damage caused at eur 66 million, or 2,1% of the gdp of the region concerned, which is above the threshold for qualifying as a regional natural disaster (1,5%). the financing of this aid shall be ensured by the payment appropriations already entered in the 2016 budget. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the ionian islands, including the islands of leucadia and cephalonia, were struck by a series of earthquakes reaching a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale in november 2015. the damage was considerable for this tourist area and therefore particularly important for the local economy. the damage was estimated at €52.374 million, or 2.1% of greece's gdp, and this country, which was largely affected by austerity policies, really didn't need that, if i may put it that way. the european union is therefore the least likely to participate in the reconstruction of infrastructure, as it usually does in other countries in similar circumstances from the moment the damage exceeds 1.5% of gdp. it was even urgent that she do it. i therefore voted in favour of this text in solidarity with greece, although i regret that this decision can only be taken now, eleven months after the events, and that the amount allocated is so small.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the green light for mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in finland, mainly in the regions of helsinki-uusimaa, etelä-suomi and länsi-suomi. solidarity must not be a vain word in europe!
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 1889 employees at microsoft and 146 at some subcontractors, finland has requested eur 5.36 million from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to facilitate the reintegration of 1141 of these workers into the labour market. the global distribution of jobs in the information technology sector has largely been to the detriment of the eu, which is competing with emerging countries, especially those in asia. in 2014, the number of jobs in this sector decreased by 2% in finland. similarly, these job losses are linked to the decline in market shares of phones running microsoft's operating system. however, no reference is made to the effects of the euro on competition in finland. while its neighbour sweden has seen its gdp grow by 15% since 2007, finland has seen its gdp contract by 1%. the fund aims to make up for the consequences of eu trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities without any demands on them. however, i voted in favour of this aid, which is useful for the reintegration of workers who are suffering from the free trade whims of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for eur 5 364 000 of aid from the globalisation adjustment fund to help redundant microsoft employees find a job. the assistance provided by this fund is welcome to revitalize and support this branch of activity. in addition, the finnish authorities started to provide the personalised services to the affected workers on 11 september 2015, well before they applied for the egf. however, i regret that the aid is being paid out in conjunction with the redundancies, whereas it could have been valuable in helping the company to restructure. it is urgent to act and to understand that our companies are the victims of the lack of structural reforms necessary to adapt to the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 1 889 employees at microsoft and 146 at some subcontractors, finland has requested eur 5.36 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to facilitate the reintegration of 1 141 of these workers into the labour market. the egf may be mobilised if a link is established between redundancies and major changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation. the global distribution of jobs in the information technology sector has largely been to the detriment of the eu, which is competing with emerging countries, especially those in asia. i voted in favour of this report, although i know that this 'adjustment fund' is only a starting point: if the european union really wants to combat the harmful effects of globalisation, it must renounce the dogma of the free movement of goods and people and no longer stand in the way of the introduction of protectionist measures. workers do not have to suffer the free-trade whims of eurocrats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland, and in particular for the 2,161 workers made redundant by microsoft and its eight suppliers and downstream producers. once again we see the disastrous results of the so-called european trade policy. in recent years, jobs in ict, like in many other fields, have been relocated outside the eu, particularly to asia, where labour is cheaper. the figures speak for themselves and are frightening: in 2014, the number of people employed in tech companies in finland fell by 2%, which is more than 5,000 employees; in 2014, the sector employed 285,000 people in finland, compared to 326,000 in 2008. at the same time, the number of employees in this sector continued to grow in the usa and in china.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help finland to re-employ 1 141 workers made redundant by microsoft. even if this report does not mention the real causes of this mass redundancy, the employees do not have to put up with the commission's mistakes in protecting the eu's economic borders. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to grant finland a financial contribution of eur 5.36 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1889 employees at microsoft and 146 employees at some of its subcontractors. this financial aid is intended to facilitate the reintegration of these dismissed workers into the labour market. on the one hand, this application by finland fulfils the conditions for the granting of the egf, which will be granted if the link between the redundancies and the changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation is established. on the other hand, we consider it our duty to show solidarity with the finns who, like the french, are suffering the consequences of unbridled globalisation. however, instead of tackling the roots of deindustrialisation such as unfair international competition, the fund only aims to mask the disastrous consequences of the european union's trade and monetary policies. i voted for this text anyway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for microsoft employees made redundant at the request of finland. this is justified by the very high level of competition in the mobile telephony sector. the sum of eur 5 364 000 will therefore be mobilised to help 2161 dismissed employees to re-enter the world of work.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to help member states experiencing a reduction in activities and employees in a particular professional sector. in this report, finland requests the mobilisation of the fund for the mobile telephony sector. finland submitted this request following a number of redundancies, in particular at microsoft. this request concerns 1 441 employees and represents eur 5.3 million. i believe that the union must promote the transition of its economy towards sectors that generate growth and jobs by supporting workers who are made redundant. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. i supported this report on finland's request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the egf was designed to help workers who are suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. following a decline in its market share in the telephony sector, microsoft has laid off 2,161 of its workers in finland. the egf is therefore fully justified. the list of personalised services to be financed by the egf to help its workers get back into work combines measures favourable to enterprises with initiatives for the benefit of workers. this is the kind of comprehensive strategy, integrating all actors and interests, that the european union should encourage.
in writing. in recent years, the distribution of ict employment between the eu and other economies has been to the eu's detriment. the effects were particularly strong in finland, where the ict sector plays a key role in the economy. the restructuring of microsoft in 2016 led to the layoff of more than 2,000 employees, including eight of the company's downstream suppliers and producers. it is right that the european union should help these displaced workers through the european globalisation adjustment fund. eur 5.354 million was allocated to finance an employment training and skills upgrading programme and programmes to support entrepreneurship. but beyond the specific and one-off assistance that the fund can provide, the european union urgently needs to put in place a real strategy to better anticipate economic changes, to safeguard smes, to implement a forward-looking investment policy and to equip itself with real instruments for trade defence.
in writing. ‒ vote for: this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ it seems quite appropriate to use the european globalisation adjustment fund in cases where microsoft redundancies are directly linked to the adverse effects of globalisation. it is regrettable that other essential links are not established with the competition of emerging countries, or the weight of the euro on competitiveness. the european union is ultimately concerned about the effects of the causes it cherishes: the use of the fund is contrary to the eu's trade and monetary policy. however, i agree with the positive effect that this aid will have on the workers, who are innocent victims of this case. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this was set up in 2006 to help people who have lost their jobs. the fund will provide eur 5 364 000 for the benefit of the 2 161 employees made redundant. this amount will be used to finance training, counselling and support services to help these redundant workers return to work. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for dismissed employees of microsoft in finland. the fund was set up to help those who are affected by some of the negative consequences of globalisation, for example by funding new training courses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 5.36 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 1141 workers made redundant by microsoft and its subcontractors in finland, following competition from asian countries in the field of communication technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft. following the layoffs of 1889 workers at microsoft and 146 at some subcontractors, finland has requested support from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) of eur 5.36 million to facilitate the reintegration of 1141 of these workers into the labour market. the global distribution of jobs in the information technology sector has largely been to the detriment of the eu, which is competing with emerging countries, especially those in asia. in 2014, the number of jobs in this sector decreased by 2% in finland (i.e. 5000). however, no reference is made to the effects of the euro on competition in finland. while its neighbour sweden has seen its gdp grow by 15% since 2007, finland has seen its gdp contract by 1%. as usual, the egf aims to make up for the consequences of the eu's trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities without demanding anything in return. however, this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ finland applied for the fund following a large number of redundancies (1886 at microsoft, 146 at some of its subcontractors). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) may be mobilised if a link is established between these redundancies and major structural changes in international trade resulting from globalisation. the situation in finland is as follows: globalisation has largely pushed the eu back in the telecommunications sector, to the benefit of asian countries in particular. this could also be linked to the effects of the euro, as finland's gdp has fallen by 1% since 2007. at the same time, its neighbour sweden, which is not part of the eurozone, saw its share grow by 15% over the same period. the egf is a cover for the harmful consequences of eu policies, but it is also a means of redressing wrongs and helping workers who are not responsible for them. so i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it aims to unlock financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) amounting to eur 5.36 million. this envelope would be allocated to former finnish microsoft employees, as well as to subcontractors who have been dismissed. these job losses are linked to the decline in market shares of windows phones and to strong competition from asian countries, especially china. unfortunately, once again, the egf is only used to deal with the consequences and not the causes of the massive job losses in europe. therefore, the report does not mention the negative effects of the introduction of the euro on competition in finland. as usual, the egf is therefore designed to mask the consequences of the eu's trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities. however, this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers. so, despite these considerations, we are in favour of giving material aid to these people.
‒ another case of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) being mobilised in the it and telephony sector in the scandinavian countries, once again symbolic of the damage caused by the european union's industrial and trade policy. the case concerns microsoft in finland, which is laying off nearly 2 000 employees, with ripple effects on subcontractors and suppliers. some of these workers had just been made redundant by nokia and had already received this european aid. however, the report does not question the fact that their new jobs were not therefore secure in the long term, which is the aim of the egf. worse, he says that because competition is global, 'the location or cultural background of the staff is of limited importance'! the egf is therefore fulfilling its role as a relocation aid. i shall abstain, however, in order not to deprive finnish workers of this aid.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 1889 workers at microsoft and 146 at some subcontractors, finland has requested eur 5.36 million from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to facilitate the reintegration of 1141 of these workers into the labour market. the egf may be mobilised if a link is established between redundancies and major changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation. in this case, the global distribution of jobs in the information technology sector has largely been to the detriment of the eu, which is competing with emerging countries, especially those in asia. as usual, the egf aims to make up for the consequences of the eu's trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities without demanding anything in return. however, this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the consequences of unfortunate choices made by the european commission and irresponsible managers. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 1 889 workers at microsoft and 146 others at certain subcontractors, finland has requested eur 5.36 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to facilitate the reintegration of 1 141 of these workers into the labour market. as usual, the fund aims to make up for the consequences of the union's trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities without requiring any compensation. however, it is useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission, so we should vote in favour of this aid.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund of 5.36 million to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of 1141 workers made redundant in finland by microsoft and 146 by certain subcontractors, in particular because of the growing competition from emerging countries, especially asian countries, in the field of telephony and new information and communication technologies. however, even if no reference is made to the effects of the euro on competition in finland, this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by finland following redundancies at microsoft and 8 downstream suppliers and producers between september 2015 and january 2016. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall support employees whose redundancies are due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, to the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or to a new global financial and economic crisis. in the present case, the amount of the egf mobilised is eur 5 364 000 for 2161 eligible beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european mobilization adjustment fund, requested by finland, for microsoft. when jobs are at risk, when economic change requires the conversion or training of employees in companies in difficulty, i welcome the financial help that the european union can provide. the fight against unemployment is the european union's priority; unfortunately, the current labour market situation and the consequences of the economic crisis of 2008 continue to affect employment in europe. all the tools we have to use to save jobs in our small and large businesses.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 1889 workers at microsoft and 146 at some subcontractors, finland has requested eur 5.36 million from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to facilitate the reintegration of 1141 of these workers into the labour market. of course, no mention is made of the effects of the euro on competition in finland. while its neighbour sweden has seen its gdp grow by 15% since 2007, finland has seen its gdp contract by 1%. as usual, the egf aims to make up for the consequences of the eu's trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities without demanding anything in return. however, this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to submit to the free trade whims of the european commission. in support of the workers, i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in international trade, such as relocations or business closures. in this case, i voted in favour of granting the aid requested by finland to support 2161 former employees (dismissed between september 2015 and january 2016) of companies operating in the mobile telephony sector.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 1889 workers at microsoft and 146 at some subcontractors, finland has requested eur 5.36 million from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to facilitate the reintegration of 1141 of these workers into the labour market. the egf may be mobilised if a link is established between redundancies and major changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation. in this case, the global distribution of jobs in the information technology sector has largely been to the detriment of the eu, which is competing with emerging countries, especially those in asia. in 2014, the number of jobs in this sector decreased by 2% in finland (i.e. 5000). similarly, these job losses are linked to the decline in market shares of phones running microsoft's operating system. the gef aims to mask the consequences of eu trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities without requiring any compensation. however, this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers who do not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ when microsoft bought nokia in 2013, it committed to making finland a hub for its european operations. but between september 2015 and january 2016, 1 889 finnish employees were laid off by the company. in all, including suppliers, no less than 2,161 people lost their jobs. the multinational company is not doing well: satya nadella, the ceo of microsoft, received a salary of $17.7 million for his last fiscal year and microsoft posted a net profit of $17 billion in 2016, up 38%. its founder and second largest shareholder, bill gates, founder, was ranked number one on the forbes list of the world's richest men again this year, with a personal fortune of $75 billion. in these circumstances it is unacceptable that public money should be used to finance the re-employment of the 2,161 finnish employees who have been left behind! microsoft is fully capable of taking responsibility for its actions and paying for the workers it has sacrificed. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report giving the green light for mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in sweden, mainly in the stockholm and östra regions. solidarity must not be a vain word in europe.
in writing. ‒ sweden has requested eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to deal with more than 1500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to reintegrating the workers concerned into the labour market. ericsson has mainly cut jobs in its telecommunications equipment manufacturing sector in order to directly or indirectly relocate this activity to asia (especially india) in order to reduce its costs and face increasing global competition. if we have to vote on aid for workers made redundant, this must not obscure the responsibility of eu policies which sow free trade and unfair global competition, driven by an irrational rejection of any intelligent protectionism. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i regret the institution of this instrument at european level and i await the planned revision of the legal basis. this is a widely requested measure, but i will allow myself the opportunity, on a case-by-case basis, to vote in favour of its mobilisation. i therefore abstained because the situation around ericsson's employment policy in the software field is not clear enough.
in writing. ‒ this is a request from sweden to request eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to deal with more than 1 500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. since this fund exists, it might as well be used to help european workers in distress. however, this should not obscure the responsibility of eu policies endorsing unbridled free trade and unfair global competition, and hence the hypocrisy of this 'globalisation adjustment fund'. once again, instead of trying to mitigate the effects, it is the causes that should be tackled by protecting european workers from the ravages of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from sweden concerning ericsson employees. the 1556 employees, most of whom worked in the telecommunications equipment production branch of this large swedish firm, were dismissed. ericsson, a leading company in the 1990s and 2000s, was forced to relocate a large part of its production to asia, where production costs are much lower (in particular thanks to cheap labour). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to ericsson was compatible with the internal market. the largest share of the employees of one of the flowering european telecommunications industries is now in india! the very fact that this 'adjustment fund' is needed to heal the wounds of a dying european industry unfortunately shows once again that wild free trade has no other profit than the destruction of jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help sweden to re-employ most of the 1,500 workers made redundant by ericsson, which has relocated these jobs to asia. even if this report does not mention the real causes of this mass redundancy, the employees do not have to put up with the commission's mistakes in protecting the eu's economic borders. i vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to grant sweden a financial contribution of eur 4 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the dismissal of 1500 employees at ericsson, which operates in the telephone sector. this financial aid will help to facilitate the reintegration of these dismissed employees into the labour market. first, the application submitted by sweden fulfils the conditions for the granting of the egf, which will be granted if the link between the redundancies and the changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation is established. on the other hand, we consider it our duty to show solidarity with the swedes who, like the french, are suffering the consequences of unbridled globalisation. however, this aid must not obscure the european union's responsibility for the deindustrialization and mass unemployment that our fellow citizens are suffering. it is therefore essential to combat unfair international competition exacerbated by social, environmental and monetary dumping by emerging countries, in particular by introducing a moratorium on all tariff concessions granted under free trade agreements. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has accepted sweden's request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help ericsson's dismissed employees. the sum of eur 3 957 918 will therefore be mobilised to help 1 556 dismissed employees to re-enter the world of work. this request was justified in view of the very strong global competition faced by the telecommunications equipment industry, especially with respect to asian producers. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to help member states experiencing a reduction in activities and employees in a particular professional sector. ericsson has used the fund to provide eur 6 million for 1 244 employees. i supported this report, considering that the eu must promote the transition of its economy towards sectors that generate growth and jobs by supporting workers who are made redundant.
in writing. i supported this report on sweden's request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). it is important that the european union supports all workers made redundant as a result of the effects of globalisation and helps them to reorient themselves. we therefore approve the mobilisation of the egf, the european fund dedicated to this type of support, for the training, reorientation and rehabilitation plan for the 1556 workers made redundant by telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson in sweden.
in writing. the global economic and financial crisis has hit many sectors of european industry hard. faced with stagnating growth and increasing competition from asian producers, ericsson has been steadily reducing its production of telecommunications equipment for nearly 20 years. in the first half of 2015, ericsson announced successive job losses of 1 611 across seven swedish sites. it is right that the european union should help these displaced workers through the european globalisation adjustment fund. eur 4 million was allocated to finance an employment training and skills upgrading programme and programmes to support entrepreneurship. but beyond the specific and one-off assistance that the fund can provide, the european union urgently needs to put in place a real strategy to better anticipate economic changes, to safeguard smes, to implement a forward-looking investment policy and to equip itself with real instruments for trade defence.
in writing. ‒ vote for: this time it is sweden's request for eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to deal with over 1500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ ericsson's decision to relocate to asia and to participate in the fierce global competition is obviously the cause of these redundancies. again, while it is commendable to help these self-sacrificing workers, one cannot ignore the responsibility of european politics in its support for ultra-globalism and the rejection of intelligent protectionism. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr esteban gonzález pons, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs. the fund will provide just over three million for the benefit of the 1,556 employees made redundant. this amount will be used to finance training, counselling and support services to help these redundant workers return to work. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for redundant employees of ericsson in sweden. the fund was set up to help those who are affected by some of the negative consequences of globalisation, for example by funding new training courses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the globalisation adjustment fund of €4 million to reintegrate into the labour market 1500 workers made redundant by ericsson in sweden, following competition from emerging countries in the production of telecommunications equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2016/002 se/ericsson. this is an application by sweden to request eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to deal with more than 1500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. ericsson has mainly cut jobs in its telecommunications equipment manufacturing sector in order to directly or indirectly relocate this activity to asia (especially india) in order to reduce its costs and face increasing global competition. if we have to vote on aid for workers made redundant, this must not obscure the responsibility of eu policies which sow free trade and unfair global competition, driven by an irrational rejection of any intelligent protectionism.
in writing. ‒ sweden has applied for a call for funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is asking for eur 4 million to cover the redundancies of 1500 employees in the telephone sector. ericsson has moved part of its production to asia (mainly india), where labour costs are much lower. i voted for this aid, of course, even though it is only a pale remedy for the devastating effects of globalisation, and it does not tackle the causes.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the aim is to provide sweden with financial assistance of eur 4 million to deal with the consequences of more than 1500 redundancies in the telephone sector. the aim is to use this fund to help people who have been made redundant to reintegrate into the labour market. sweden is a victim of globalisation as ericsson has cut jobs in its telecommunications equipment manufacturing sector. the purpose of these divestments was to shift the business, directly or indirectly, to asia (in order to reduce costs). again, the report fails to highlight the responsibility of eu policies that sow free trade and unfair competition, and thus push large companies to such actions. despite these reservations, we are not opposed to aid for dismissed employees, who are the real victims of these policies.
in writing. ‒ swedish firm ericsson is laying off more than 1 500 of its workers in sweden and soon more in europe. at the same time, it has doubled its global recruitment. this report justifies the relocations of one of the world's leading telecommunications companies, which is said to be "confronted simultaneously with stagnating growth and increasing competition from asian producers". this is more precisely the effect of the relocation of european and american manufacturing sites to asia and the swedish-japanese alliance with sony ericsson, the world's fifth largest manufacturer of telephones. no question is raised about the total absence of protectionism at european borders which has caused these losses of jobs and technologies for the last ten years. the scandinavian countries were at the forefront of telecommunications, however, thanks to highly skilled employees who will now find it difficult to find a job in a niche sector that is rapidly disappearing. the swedish state blames the coup and undertakes to re-employ some of these workers. in the end, this 'european globalisation adjustment fund' is doing its job well as a relocation aid. i shall abstain, however, in order not to deprive the workers concerned of this aid.
in writing. ‒ this is an application by sweden for eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to deal with more than 1500 redundancies in the telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. i voted for this aid for workers made redundant, but it must not obscure the responsibility of eu policies.
in writing. ‒ this is an application by sweden to request eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to deal with more than 1 500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. ericsson has mainly cut jobs in its telecommunications equipment manufacturing sector and has directly or indirectly relocated this activity to asia (especially india) in order to reduce its costs and face increasing global competition. if we have to vote on this aid to workers made redundant, this must not obscure the responsibility of the union's policies which sow free trade and unfair global competition, driven by an irrational rejection of any intelligent protectionism.
in writing. ‒ as with finland's application, this is a request from sweden to seek assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund of €4 million to deal with more than 1500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. ericsson has mainly cut jobs in its telecommunications equipment manufacturing sector and has directly or indirectly relocated this activity to asia (especially india) in order to reduce its costs and face increasing global competition. if we have to vote on aid for workers made redundant, this must not obscure the responsibility of eu policies which sow free trade and unfair global competition, driven by an irrational rejection of any intelligent protectionism. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for ericsson in sweden. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall support employees whose redundancies are due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, to the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or to a new global financial and economic crisis. in the present case, the amount of the egf mobilised was eur 3 957 918 for 1 556 redundant employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european mobilization adjustment fund, requested by sweden, for the company ericsson. when jobs are at risk, when economic change requires the conversion or training of employees in companies in difficulty, i welcome the financial help that the european union can provide. the fight against unemployment is the european union's priority; unfortunately, the current labour market situation and the consequences of the economic crisis of 2008 continue to affect employment in europe. all the tools we have to use to save jobs in our small and large businesses.
in writing. ‒ as with finland's application, this is a request from sweden to seek assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund of €4 million to deal with more than 1500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. ericsson has mainly cut jobs in its telecommunications equipment manufacturing sector in order to directly or indirectly relocate this activity to asia (especially india) in order to reduce its costs and face increasing global competition. if we have to vote on aid for workers made redundant, this must not obscure the responsibility of eu policies which sow free trade and unfair global competition, driven by an irrational rejection of any intelligent protectionism. in support of the workers who are victims of the eu, i vote for this aid.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in international trade, such as relocations or business closures. in this particular case, i voted in favour of granting aid requested by sweden for 1 556 former ericsson employees.
in writing. ‒ this is a request from sweden to request eur 4 million from the globalisation adjustment fund to deal with more than 1500 redundancies in its telephone sector with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. ericsson has cut jobs in its telecommunications equipment manufacturing sector and has directly or indirectly relocated this activity to asia (especially india) in order to reduce its costs and face increasing global competition. if we have to vote on aid for workers made redundant, this must not obscure the responsibility of eu policies and unfair global competition driven by an irrational rejection of any intelligent protectionism. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ ericsson laid off 1,244 swedish workers between september 2015 and january 2016. and the company just announced that it's going to lay off another 3,000 to 4,000 workers in sweden again. at the same time, the company has been recruiting low-cost staff in asian countries for several years. the multinational is doing well: its net profit is 1.6 billion euros in 2015 and dividends paid to shareholders are constantly increasing (+23% between 2013 and 2016) despite the "terrible" situation of ericsson that the specialized media portray. clearly ericsson is not bankrupt and the current layoffs are just part of a logic of offshoring jobs to asia. ericsson has the means to finance the social consequences of its policies. it would be enough to pay a little less dividend. it is not the european budget that is financing 'these policies of adjustment to globalisation' even though that is the name of the fund, because in my view it is actually encouraging relocations. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr grammatikakis' immunity.
in writing. ‒ mr giorgos grammatikakis, a greek mep from the s&d group, is himself asking for his immunity to be waived. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ giorgos grammatikakis himself has asked for his immunity to be lifted in order to put an end to this long judicial process, motivated by illegal payments he allegedly made twenty years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. furthermore, there is no indication that the intention underlying the proposed action is to cause political harm to the member of the european parliament concerned. i am therefore in favour of lifting his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of immunity by my colleague from the committee on culture, giorgos grammatikakis, who himself had requested it in order to bring a long judicial procedure to a speedy conclusion. he is suspected of being involved in an illegal payments case when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. there is therefore no link with his activity as a member of the european parliament, nor even with opinions or votes cast in that institution. it does not appear, moreover, that the charges against him are motivated by an intention to cause him political harm. there was no reason to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, who is suspected of having made illegal payments when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. first, the prosecution of giorgos grammatikakis clearly has no connection with his status as a member of the european parliament, since it is linked to his previous tenure as rector of the council of the university of crete. nor does the action concern an opinion or vote delivered by a member in the performance of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. furthermore, there is no indication that the intention underlying the prosecution is to cause political harm to the member of the european parliament concerned. that is why i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ vote for: lifting of parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis is motivated by illegal payments allegedly made twenty years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. giorgos grammatikakis himself has asked for his immunity to be waived in order to put an end to this lengthy judicial process. there is no indication that the intention underlying the proposed prosecution is to politically harm the member of the european parliament concerned.
in writing. ‒ the illegal activities of member giorgos grammatikakis can only lead to the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. there is no reason to believe that these proceedings are politically prejudicial to the member, either in terms of his status or his activities as a member of parliament, since they concern events that occurred before his election. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr grammatikakis' immunity because he himself is asking for it to be waived.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, simply because he himself has requested it. this is a matter which has nothing to do with his mandate in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis is motivated by illegal payments allegedly made twenty years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. he himself has asked for his immunity to be waived in order to put an end to this lengthy judicial process. the proposed action clearly has no connection with the status of giorgos grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament, since it is linked to his previous tenure as rector of the university council. furthermore, there is no indication that the intention underlying the proposed action is to cause political harm to the member of the european parliament concerned. so i voted for the motion.
in writing. - i voted for this text. giorgos grammatikakis himself requested the lifting of his parliamentary immunity in order to put an end to the judicial process, as a consequence of illegal payments he allegedly made 20 years ago, as rector of the council of the university of crete. the prosecution clearly has no connection with the status of member of the european parliament. they also do not concern the cases provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union (opinion or vote in the exercise of parliamentary functions). finally, there is no indication that these proceedings were brought with the aim of politically harming mr grammatikakis.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the greek mep giorgos grammatikakis. the request follows the request of the deputy prosecutor of the greek supreme court. the alleged infringement relates to a discussion on 8 march 1996 on the possibility of concluding a new private group insurance policy for all employees of the university of crete and to alleged illegal payments made in successive instalments over the period 2000-2002. the offence has therefore no connection with his term of office as an mp. furthermore, since the prosecution does not concern an opinion or vote made by the member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i am voting for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis is motivated by illegal payments allegedly made twenty years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. he himself has asked for his immunity to be waived in order to put an end to this lengthy judicial process. the prosecution clearly has no connection with the status of giorgos grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament, as it is linked to his previous tenure as rector of the university council. furthermore, there is no indication that the intention underlying the proposed prosecution is to cause political harm to the member of the european parliament concerned. so i voted for the motion.
in writing. ‒ the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis is motivated by illegal payments allegedly made twenty years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. he himself has asked for his immunity to be waived in order to put an end to this lengthy judicial process. the proposed action clearly has no connection with the status of giorgos grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament, as it is linked to his previous tenure as rector of the council of the university of crete. it does not concern an opinion or a vote by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. furthermore, there is no indication that the intention underlying the proposed action is to politically harm the member of the european parliament concerned. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the lifting of the immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, mp, suspected of illegal payments made 20 years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. since the member has himself requested the waiver of his immunity and the prosecution is unrelated to his political or parliamentary activity, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the waiver of mr grammatikakis' parliamentary immunity. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state, or by a member himself, for the waiver of parliamentary immunity shall be examined by a committee of the european parliament. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis.
in writing. ‒ the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis is motivated by illegal payments allegedly made twenty years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. the proposed action clearly has no connection with the status of mr grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament. it does not concern an opinion or a vote by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. furthermore, there is no indication that the intention underlying the proposed action is to cause political harm to the member of the european parliament concerned. finally, mr grammatikakis himself asked for his immunity to be waived in order to put an end to this lengthy judicial process. in these circumstances, i shall vote in favour of the report calling for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis is motivated by illegal payments allegedly made twenty years ago when he was rector of the council of the university of crete. he himself has asked for his immunity to be waived in order to put an end to this lengthy judicial process. the prosecution clearly has no connection with the status of giorgos grammatikakis as a member of the european parliament, as it is linked to his previous tenure as rector of the council of the university of crete. they shall not relate to an opinion or vote delivered by a member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. furthermore, there is no indication that the intention underlying the proposed prosecution is to cause political harm to the member of the european parliament concerned. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report. at a time when the emphasis is on creating as many new criminal law instruments as possible to combat terrorism and other forms of crime, it is important to remember that the basis of a union based on the rule of law is to guarantee respect for the fundamental rights of the defence of those accused or suspected by our criminal justice systems.
in writing. ‒ while the commission's proposal would only guarantee the right to 'provisional' legal aid, the libe committee suggested that the scope of the proposed directive be extended to include the right to 'ordinary' legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. member states should ensure in particular that: ordinary legal aid is provided at all stages of criminal proceedings; systems are in place to ensure the quality and independence of lawyers practising as barristers, in particular an accreditation system, as well as initial and continuing vocational training; the suspect, the accused person or the person whose surrender is sought has the right to request the replacement of the lawyer of his own choice assigned to him. this is a new step in the development of european criminal law, although it is a matter for the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ judicial europe is on the move but it is moving slowly. yet this is one of the areas where europe can demonstrate its added value to its citizens. free movement within the union and the division of judicial powers at national level is a boon for offenders. it is obvious that something must be done about it. trust in the respective legal systems is based on trust in the member states' legal aid systems. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. according to this text, suspects and persons prosecuted in criminal proceedings should have an effective remedy if their rights were to be infringed. however, i am against this legal aid which is a new stage in the development of european criminal law, whereas it is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report by the libe committee, which takes the european commission's ambition to develop a genuine european criminal law to the detriment of national law even further. the report advocates the establishment of a right to 'ordinary' legal aid for persons prosecuted in criminal proceedings, as well as for persons whose surrender is sought in proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. the approach of the europeanists is perverse, since it is to attack the sovereignty of the member states from the point of view of individual rights. the european nations, if this directive is followed, would now be confined to a role of verification: to ensure that ordinary legal aid is provided at all stages of the criminal proceedings; the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be consulted on the interpretation of the provisions of the treaty. but the member states are already states of law and most of them have already been ensuring such practices at national level, in france since 1841! a draft directive which therefore has no usefulness other than its ideological scope.
in writing. ‒ this text is a new step in the development of european criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates extending the scope of the european commission's proposal for a directive to include the right to ordinary legal aid for individuals prosecuted in criminal proceedings. the member states would thus be obliged to provide such legal aid at all stages of the criminal proceedings and to guarantee the quality and independence of lawyers hired on their own initiative. the law also grants suspects the right to request, at one sitting, the replacement of the lawyer appointed for them and the right to appeal against a decision refusing such legal aid. i voted against this report, which is a new step in the development of european criminal law, whereas this is a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it allows the establishment of common minimum rules on the right to legal aid for suspects, accused persons and persons whose surrender is sought. the report, with its common minimum rules, helps to strengthen the confidence of member states in the criminal justice systems of other member states. it also facilitates the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters. member states are encouraged to take measures to improve the quality and efficiency of legal aid services. this report requires member states to grant access to legal aid, beyond provisional legal aid, because persons whose surrender is sought are not always deprived of liberty. this will also strengthen mutual trust and make effective the right to a double defence in european arrest warrant proceedings.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report follows the european commission's proposal of november 2013 for a directive on legal aid. the aim of this text is to strengthen the rights of european citizens by establishing common minimum standards in all member states for the right to legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. i voted in favour of this text, considering that it will ensure better protection for european citizens and strengthen mutual trust between states in the field of justice.
in writing. the adoption by a very large majority of this text on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in european arrest warrant proceedings is an important step towards strengthening the procedural rights of european citizens. as rapporteur on this text for my political group, the epp, i have insisted that strong minimum standards for access to legal aid be guaranteed for any suspect or accused person deprived of liberty in any of the member states of the european union. this harmonization of our criminal procedures is essential to the construction of the europe of justice which i defend.
in writing. the right of access to legal aid gives any person prosecuted for a crime the possibility of obtaining legal aid, such as a lawyer or an interpreter, regardless of his or her income. this right is one of the fundamental principles enshrined in article 6 of the european convention on human rights and article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. since 2009, the union has had legislation to guarantee this right of access to all its citizens throughout europe. although all member states recognise this legal instrument, there are still some differences in the quality of the aid provided. with the adoption of the revised directive, european citizens will now be able to fully benefit from this right without distinction of income, regardless of the member state in which they are at the time of their arrest.
in writing. ‒ vote against: a new stage in the development of european criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of a package proposed by the european commission to improve procedural rights and harmonise them at european level. that report shall lay down the common minimum rules under which a person accused or suspected in criminal proceedings or subject to a european arrest warrant may apply for legal aid. two tests to be carried out by the member states will enable an independent authority to decide on the right to legal aid, based on, among other criteria, the resources and situation of the person and the seriousness of the offence. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has succeeded in applying these rights to aid throughout the criminal proceedings and that a right of appeal can be exercised in the event of refusal. parliament has also made it possible to make information on this aid available, which is important because all citizens must know their procedural rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the strengthening of legal mechanisms in europe with the agreement by the european parliament and the council on a set of common minimum rules governing the right to legal aid. in france, this system already exists, but in other eu countries, the effective right of access to a lawyer was not always guaranteed for persons prosecuted or suspected of having insufficient resources. legal aid will now be available for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings but will not apply to minor offences because of the excessive financial burden this would have imposed on member states. it should also be clarified that this assistance will apply to persons whose surrender is sought in the context of european arrest warrant proceedings. finally, each state will remain free to apply the criterion it considers most relevant - resource or merits - in determining whether or not legal aid can be granted.
in writing. ‒ this text, which calls for the extension of 'ordinary' legal aid to suspects and individuals prosecuted for criminal offences and to those subject to a european arrest warrant, attacks prerogatives which are the sole responsibility of the member states. the desire to go further and further towards the establishment of a european criminal law is clear, and i am firmly opposed to this. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague dennis de jong's text on legal aid. created in 1972 in france, legal aid is a fundamental principle, but not present in all european countries. in order to ensure that minimum standards are in place in all member states, i supported this draft directive which provides for the obligation for member states to provide legal aid for persons deprived of their liberty. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the right to legal aid for citizens suspected of or prosecuted for criminal offences and for citizens who are the subject of a european arrest warrant. everyone must be able to be defended, and the right to defence is a fundamental right in a democracy. in addition, the legislation provides for an assessment of the resources and merits of the application as a prerequisite for obtaining such legal aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it marks a new stage in the development of european criminal law, this time in terms of the standardisation of legal aid. however, i believe that criminal justice is and must remain the prerogative of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive is to extend access to legal aid for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and to harmonise this system at european level. by strengthening the procedural rights of european citizens, we are moving towards a europe of justice. this is an important step towards the realisation of a genuine common judicial area worthy of the name! i therefore voted in favour of the de jong report for the adoption of this directive at first reading.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in european arrest warrant proceedings. this is a new stage in the development of european criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ it is very clear that this is yet another and new attempt to develop european criminal law. the commission, aided in this by the work of the libe committee, is insidiously encroaching on the competences of the member states, which i cannot accept. the directive requires member states to ensure that legal aid is provided at all stages of criminal proceedings, or that accreditation is established to ensure the integrity and independence of lawyers hired by the institution. i cannot support such interference by the european union in the affairs of states, and this is in a royal area, namely justice. i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text aims to extend the right to legal aid: from 'provisional' to 'ordinary' aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. this would also apply to persons whose surrender is sought in the context of proceedings for the execution of a european arrest warrant. the text also requires member states to ensure that a number of measures are put in place: that ordinary assistance is in force at all stages of the criminal proceedings, that systems are put in place to guarantee the quality and independence of lawyers appointed by the courts, etc. we are therefore setting up a genuine european criminal law, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides that judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. the implementation of this principle presupposes mutual trust between member states in their respective criminal justice systems, including the way in which the rights of suspects or accused persons are protected. in practice, however, national practices vary in this respect. in 2013, the european commission adopted a directive on legal aid to ensure the right to a fair trial as recognised in particular by article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the report shall specify the procedures for its application. it thus ensures that the provision of an interpreter is integrated into legal aid. it also details the cases in which member states may provide, by way of exception, for reimbursement of costs relating to provisional legal aid . i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ while the commission's proposal would only guarantee the right to 'provisional' legal aid, the libe committee suggested that the scope of the proposed directive be extended to include the right to 'ordinary' legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. i voted against this new stage in the development of european criminal law, whereas this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ we consider that criminal law and procedure are at the heart of the competences that member states must retain. the various rules proposed here to govern legal aid in the framework of the european arrest warrant, whatever their merits, run counter to this conviction and our commitment to the legal sovereignty of states in criminal matters. we are opposed to this text on this principle.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in proceedings relating to the european arrest warrant. the directive thus requires member states to ensure that legal aid is provided at all stages of criminal proceedings, that systems are in place to guarantee the quality and independence of legal counsel on a contract basis, and that any suspect has the right to request that the lawyer on a contract be replaced. considering that this is a new step in the development of european criminal law, which encroaches on the exclusive competences of the member states, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in the context of european arrest warrant proceedings. the purpose of this text is to establish common minimum standards, in particular to ensure the effective exercise of the right of access to a lawyer for suspects and accused persons, in all member states as regards legal aid, in order to strengthen the procedural rights of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ while the commission proposal would only guarantee the right to provisional legal aid, the libe committee suggested that the scope of the proposed directive be extended to include the right to ordinary legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. the european union is taking a new step in the development of european criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states. only the democratic institutions of a sovereign people should be able to change the criminal law. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in the context of european arrest warrant proceedings. the text is positive because it strengthens the procedural rights of european citizens, in particular through the implementation of common minimum standards in the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on provisional legal aid for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. parliament's position goes beyond the commission's proposal. the aim is to establish common minimum rules on the right to legal aid throughout the criminal proceedings. the right of access to a lawyer is guaranteed for suspects and persons deprived of their liberty without undue delay. the aim of this text is to strengthen the europe of justice by extending the european instruments on the procedural rights of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ while the commission's proposal would only guarantee the right to 'provisional' legal aid, the libe committee suggested that the scope of the proposed directive be extended to include the right to 'ordinary' legal aid for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and for persons whose surrender is sought in proceedings relating to the execution of a european arrest warrant. this is a new stage in the development of european criminal law, although this is a matter for the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ judicial cooperation is gradually being established within the european union. it is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. this text complements a directive on the right to legal assistance (2013/48/eu) in order to advance the implementation of the right to a fair trial enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights by complementing the right to legal assistance with the implementation of legal aid allowing all accused persons, regardless of their financial situation, to be assisted by a lawyer from the very beginning of the proceedings until the end of the proceedings, which is a minimum standard that no member state should be able to circumvent. without such guarantees, european justice would retain a 'censorial' character, contrary also to the european convention on human rights. i welcome the work of the rapporteur, my dutch colleague dennis de jong, who has worked to establish a genuine right to legal aid and not provisional legal aid as originally proposed by the commission.
in writing. - this report is going in the right direction. the aim of a europe that proposes a global standard for the eradication of torture. the updated rules will help the eu authorities to react more quickly to new emerging trends in the field of torture and inhuman treatment, including by regulating their online sale, etc. in recent years, we have seen how a change in the union's practices has led to the abolition of the death penalty in many partner countries. this effort is expected to continue once the regulation enters into force.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 of june 2005 aims to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the purpose of capital punishment, torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment (by a public official or other official, except in the case of legitimate sanctions) etc. the european commission proposes to make the following changes: restrictions and prohibitions are extended to brokering services and transit where the broker knows that they could be used for torture... the term torture and degrading treatment is extended excessively to include prison overcrowding, lack of medical care, prohibition of all contact with the outside world, etc. finally, the text is rather inapplicable because it does not speak of certainties or elements that goods or services would be used for torture or degrading elements but of "may serve"... the european parliament therefore proposes to tighten up this purely ideological text. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu must continue its efforts to eliminate torture by reducing the supply of equipment used to inflict ill-treatment, by preventing the possibility of circumvention or abuse of legislation and by promoting effective controls beyond its borders. trade instruments are one element of a comprehensive strategy involving all the levers of the union's external action. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to ensure the consistency of the union's exports.
in writing. ‒ since june 2005, regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 has governed trade in goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture, etc. the aim of this regulation is to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the use of the death penalty, torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. however, this new text seems to me to be inapplicable because it extends this prohibition to any object 'susceptible' of such use. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report concerning the proposal for a regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel or degrading treatment or punishment. while the aim of the regulation may seem to be a laudable one to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the purpose of torture, the death penalty, or cruel or inhuman treatment the proposed measures seem to me to be difficult to apply because criteria to verify with certainty that these goods will be used for such practices have not been established. the term 'degrading treatment' is also irresponsibly extended to include, for example, prison overcrowding, a problem which, although real, will not be solved by punishing member states. the sovereignty of the latter is finally undermined since they are being forced to suspend the transfer of security equipment not included in the annexes to the european regulation.
in writing. ‒ this commission report proposes to extend the prohibitions in force since 2005 to brokerage services and the transit of these goods. it also extends these provisions to prison overcrowding and lack of medical care. parliament is making the text even tougher by proposing, for example, that it be extended to corporal punishment. the lack of certainty as to the precise definition of these goods leads to a certain degree of caution. i therefore abstain on the commission's text. i shall also abstain on parliament's text.
in writing. ‒ as a reminder, the original regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 already prohibited all exports and imports of equipment specially designed for the use of the death penalty or inhuman treatment. companies specialising in the production of goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture must have an export licence issued by the competent national authority on written request. the amendment proposes to tighten the original regulation by extending these restrictions to brokerage and transit services. the text also proposes that the definition of torture now include prison overcrowding, lack of medical care and the prohibition of all contact with the outside world. we are of course opposed to the transit of equipment designed solely for the use of the death penalty and torture. nevertheless, we consider that the current legislation provides a sufficient framework for this activity. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ the charter of fundamental rights of the european union abolishes the death penalty and torture. both practices are formally prohibited in all eu member states. the union has a duty to disseminate these principles to the rest of the world. it is therefore essential to regulate the trade in goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture. this legislation guarantees trade with third countries based on a system of values. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report follows the european commission's proposal for the revision of the regulation against goods intended for torture and trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel or inhuman treatment or punishment. the report aims in particular to extend the list of controlled goods that can be used to impose the death penalty by lethal injection, and to strengthen restrictions on brokering and technical assistance services. exports of drugs used in the form of lethal injection will also be more strictly controlled. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the export of goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture must be strictly controlled. i therefore particularly support the possibility for member states to put in place additional measures at national level in respect of such goods. in order to actively combat torture, we must also encourage the exchange of information with national prevention mechanisms.
in writing. according to amnesty international, at least 1,634 people were sentenced to death and executed in 25 countries last year, and cases of torture were recorded in 141 countries, three quarters of the world's countries. at eu level, the charter of fundamental rights prohibits the death penalty and provides that 'no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment'. the union also promotes respect for fundamental rights throughout the world. since 2005, the union has had a trade instrument to restrict exports of goods or products used for capital punishment and torture, such as electric pliers, pointed screws or certain drugs used in lethal injections. the new regulation amends existing legislation and now also covers brokerage services and technical assistance for these goods and takes account of the changes brought about by the development of new technologies. trade policy is thus put at the service of promoting the values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the text is rather inapplicable because it does not speak of certainties or of evidence that the goods or services would be used for torture or degrading elements but of "may serve"...
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it complements the current regime of prohibition of exports and imports of goods intended for torture and execution. trade in certain drugs that can be used for capital punishment will also be better controlled, as will related technical assistance and brokering services related to any of the listed goods that can be used for torture. the values of the european union based on respect for life and human dignity must be protected and promoted everywhere in the world.
in writing. ‒ the text which parliament is proposing to tighten already fails to clearly establish whether or not there is a real risk that such traded goods or services will be used for torture, degrading or other purposes. moreover, it gives those terms too broad and excessive a legal meaning, while restricting trade in goods unduly and putting too much pressure on states in this respect. i've made the decision to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marietje schaake, which is an extension of a 2005 regulation on trade in goods for the purpose of torture. the text prohibits the export, advertising and transport of products for which there are no practical uses other than torture (electric chairs, lethal injections). however, flexibility is granted for trade in products designed for other purposes (riot control weapons, anaesthetic) which are subject to increased controls. in drawing up this proposal, we have taken care that it does not impede the lawful trade of european companies and does not create unnecessary constraints for them. i am glad that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which revises certain european rules to prevent trade in goods and services which may contribute to torture or the death penalty. this is in line with the values that the european union stands for and in which i believe. it provides in particular for a ban on the promotion and marketing of such goods and a stricter ban on the transit of prohibited products within the union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this text is a bunch of regulations to try to prevent the export to third countries of services or goods from the european union that could be used for degrading human acts up to torture (for example a dual-use medicine). the objective is laudable but this unilateral text is inapplicable. it will bureaucratize the union even more but it will not stop anything. suppliers will source these multi-purpose goods elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this regulation strengthens the prohibitions on exports of products which can be used to cause death or for torture. these products are, for example, pharmaceutical products, used in lethal injections to cause death, such as those unfortunately used in the united states. thanks to this type of ban and awareness campaigns on the use of their products for european laboratories, the us prison administration now has difficulty obtaining these products. with this shortage, it is the whole of the american prison and judicial structures that are faced with their contradictions and shortcomings. that is why i supported this strengthening of the ban on exporting these products, like any other product that could be used for torture or inhuman treatment. i also took the opportunity to invite the debate to look not only at what we sell but also at who we sell it to.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel treatment or punishment. this text is a bunch of regulations to try to prevent the export, the supply to third countries of services or goods from the european union that could be used for inhuman or degrading acts up to torture (it can also be a dual-use drug). this unilateral text of the union is inapplicable and will bureaucratize the union even more but will not prevent anything. suppliers will source these multi-purpose goods elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ the current regulation aims to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the use of the death penalty, torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment... the european commission has proposed to tighten up the regulation by introducing more restrictive conditions: extension to brokerage services and transit, extension of the scope of degrading treatment, etc. finally, this hardening is inapplicable, since it is based on contingency (it can be used for). the european parliament proposes to go even further, for example by extending the scope of the text to corporal punishment and other types of property, and in a way that is binding on the member states. i am, of course, fundamentally opposed to any form of torture. but, unable to accept that the european union imposes more restrictive conditions on states, i abstained on this report.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. today, it is a 2005 regulation (no 1236/2005) which prohibits the export and import of equipment specially designed for the purpose of capital punishment, torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. the text in question, on the one hand, aims to extend the restrictions and prohibitions (by interfering a little more with the sovereignty of the states) and, on the other hand, suffers from several inaccuracies which make it, in part, inapplicable. furthermore, certain concepts are excessively broad, which makes the very object of such a regulation meaningless. however, we agree that these imports and exports must be combated.
in writing. ‒ the european union too rarely gives its trade policy to the 'diplomacy of values' it promotes. this gap is clearly reflected in two areas, which are neglected in most of the trade agreements to which the european union is party: the environment and human rights. the european institutions are therefore right to boast of being at the forefront of promoting the fight against the death penalty worldwide (which is also prohibited by the echr), but this would only be a declaration of intent if the union did not have the appropriate instruments. in this respect, the schaake report is a step in the right direction. european companies are thriving on the trade in goods used for torture, execution or degrading treatment. by voting for the schaake report, we are not only banning the export of such goods (e.g. electric chairs) by companies based in the union, but we are also banning their transit through the european union, their advertising (e.g. a german company recently promoted 60,000 volt electrically discharged handcuffs), their display at trade fairs and the training of people to use them. i fully supported this report in favour of fair trade.
in writing. ‒ a 2005 anti-torture regulation establishes measures to restrict trade in goods that can be used for torture. the report before us aims to bring this regulation up to date. the new version also prohibits the promotion and marketing of such goods on the internet. the report also prohibits any type of training aimed at 'transmitting operational knowledge or skills that could enable executions, torture or other ill-treatment'. i 'm voting for this bill .
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 of june 2005 aims to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the purpose of capital punishment, torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. the european commission's proposal to amend the regulation is more restrictive and the prohibitions are extended to brokerage services and transit where the broker knows that the goods could be used for torture. the terms 'torture' and 'degrading treatment' are excessively extended to include, for example, prison overcrowding or lack of medical care. the european parliament's proposal also aims to tighten up the original text by for example requiring member states to suspend the transfer of security equipment not included in the annexes. the purpose of this dossier is commendable, but it is misguided by a formal approach which is too restrictive of freedom. i therefore abstained on both motions.
in writing. ‒ regulation 1236/2005 of june 2005 aims to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the purpose of capital punishment, torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment (by a public servant or other official, except in the case of legitimate sanctions). the export and import of goods and technical assistance listed in the annex for the sole purpose of capital punishment or torture shall be prohibited. those which can be used for such purposes are subject to authorisation. while there is agreement on the principle, the text has been modified by various catch-all provisions which create a certain legal uncertainty and make it possible to seize a large number of assets, so it is better to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this text relates to a proposal for a regulation amending the regulation on trade in certain goods which may be used for capital punishment or torture. since 2005, trade in such goods has been governed by regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, which prohibits their export or import unless a very strict derogation is granted following a written request. the european parliament proposes to tighten this text by ensuring that a european can no longer provide brokering services for this product outside the union's borders. however, considering that this is a matter for the states, i decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel or degrading treatment or punishment. the purpose of this act is to establish a system of prohibition of trade in all goods specifically intended for torture and executions and related technical assistance and an authorisation system for goods which may be used for the same purposes when they are misused.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 of june 2005 aims to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the purpose of capital punishment, torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. the goods and technical assistance for goods for the sole purpose of capital punishment or torture, listed in annex ii, shall be prohibited from being exported and imported. goods and technical assistance for products which could be used for capital punishment or torture, listed in annex iii, shall be subject to an export authorisation. the european commission proposes to extend restrictions and prohibitions to brokering and transit services where the broker knows they could be used for torture and to broaden the definition of 'torture and degrading treatment' to include prison overcrowding, lack of medical care, prohibition of all contact with the outside, etc. the text is also inapplicable because it does not speak of certainties or elements on the use of goods or services for torture but of "may serve"... the european parliament proposes to tighten it up further. i am opposed to all forms of torture and i am of course against the export of instruments of torture, but this text is too vague and inapplicable as it stands. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which revises european rules to combat trade in goods or services which may contribute to torture or the death penalty. in particular, we voted to ban the marketing or transit of equipment which could be used for cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of persons in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which concerns the revision of the regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel or degrading treatment or punishment. the updated regulation strengthens existing eu legislation to continue to prevent companies from contributing to the use of the death penalty or torture in third countries by directly or indirectly marketing certain goods. provision is also made for the union to be able to respond rapidly and adapt to the development of new technologies. the text recalls that international trade must respect and contribute to the promotion of the european union's values on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this 2005 regulation is to prevent and prohibit the export of equipment specially designed for the use of the death penalty, torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. the national competent authority shall issue authorisations for a maximum of 12 months on a reasoned written request if it has no strong suspicion of use for torture and the death penalty. the european commission wants to restrict and ban brokering and transit services where the broker knows they could be used for torture... the term torture and degrading treatment is extended excessively to include prison overcrowding, lack of medical care, prohibition of all contact with the outside world, etc. the european parliament proposes to tighten the text even further. this text shall be inapplicable and shall have no effect. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the death penalty violates the right to life as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and the european convention on human rights. torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, which are prohibited by these same texts and by ad hoc international conventions, are a violation of fundamental rights, in particular the right to dignity and hence of our humanity. it is our duty to ban them on european soil and to urge the member states to respect these texts. it is equally important to prohibit any form of competition outside our borders. it is therefore urgent to prevent the export, transit and re-export of goods that could be used to impose such penalties and allow companies to profit from such illicit trade. similarly, any technical assistance which may assist in the execution of such acts must be strictly prohibited. the penalties in this area should be harmonised and tightened. this draft regulation is aimed at this. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the strategic agreement between europol and the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china which involves the exchange of information, but not personal data.
in writing. ‒ in order to be able to demonstrate greater effectiveness in preventing and combating serious forms of crime, europol has, in accordance with decision 2009/934/jha, initiated the procedure for concluding an agreement on strategic cooperation with the ministry of public security of china. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. this proposal provides for the council to adopt an implementing decision authorising europol to approve the strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol. i opposed this agreement because of the risks of industrial espionage.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain because the relationship between china and europol cannot be thought of without considering the trade relations between the european union and china and the granting of market economy status to china. since these are not satisfactory at present, it does not seem consistent to discuss other cooperation measures.
in writing. ‒ strategic agreements involve the exchange of information excluding personal data, while operational agreements involve the exchange of all information, including personal data. i therefore opposed this agreement which provides for the council to adopt an implementing decision authorising europol to approve the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol.
in writing. ‒ it is good that europe wants to collaborate - if i may say so - with china, through its interpol agency, against organized crime, which we know is becoming increasingly global. it is good that the report states that china is increasingly becoming a source, destination and transit country for all kinds of trafficking and crime. but let's not hide our faces, because even if china becomes the world's leading economic power in the near future, the regime is still a dictatorship that censors the internet, imprisons opponents without trial and violates human rights all day long. but politics is the art of the possible. i voted for this report because we have to choose the lesser evil and because the rapporteur has made it clear that the exchange of personal data is excluded from this agreement. but without blindly endorsing the behaviour of our chinese "partners", as others too often do.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on an agreement on strategic cooperation between china and europol. the rapporteur does state that the strategic agreement in question will exclude the exchange of personal data. however, the nature of the information exchanged remains sensitive: expertise, but also general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, etc. however, given the special status of china, which is not yet recognised as a market economy but is highly competitive, it may be unwise to share such information with this power.
in writing. ‒ europol has entered into a strategic cooperation agreement with the ministry of public security of china to increase efficiency in the fight against organised crime. these strategic agreements provide for exchanges of information on expertise, general reports, the results of strategic analyses, criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. although these strategic agreements effectively exclude the exchange of personal information, i opposed this text to protect member states from a potential risk of industrial espionage by china. the fight against crime must not be at the expense of safeguarding our jobs and industries. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion by the council of the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. china hosts several organized crime groups and is considered an important transit country for organized crime. considering that this technical and strategic cooperation between the union and the people's republic of china will strengthen the fight against organised crime networks, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report for the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol. we need a framework for cooperation between europol, which has a mandate to make europe safer and to help the law enforcement agencies of a country, and china, through which many criminal organisations operating in europe pass. the conclusion of such agreements is important in order to strengthen our cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism. however, it was imperative that this agreement guarantee the protection of the personal data of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this proposal provides for the council to adopt an implementing decision authorising europol to approve the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament has authorised the conclusion of a technical, strategic and operational cooperation agreement between china and europol. this cooperation is all the more important as china can be a great supporter in the fight against organised crime networks and human trafficking. in my view, such cooperation is desirable and acceptable insofar as the exchange of personal data is excluded.
in writing. ‒ europol's desire to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with china implies sharing certain information with china, under the pretext of better effectiveness in the fight against crime. although personal data are excluded from strategic agreements, the risk of spying is too great in my view. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes on a council decision allowing europol to partner with china on strategic security cooperation. this cooperation does not include exchanges of personal data between the european union and china and will aim to combat organised crime, counterfeiting and cybercrime more effectively. i support this initiative, which is part of the desire to strengthen security in our territory by promoting international cooperation, a subject at the heart of european diplomacy. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a strategic agreement between china and europol as it guarantees a full commitment of both parties to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism or other crimes with cooperation for the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information, without touching personal data. in these difficult times we must maintain as much as possible of our relations with third countries in the field of intelligence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it advocates the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. however, china is not a reliable partner as it practices industrial espionage.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the china-europol strategic cooperation agreement, even though the strategic agreements (as opposed to the operational agreements) concluded by europol involve the exchange of information excluding personal data. with a country like china, there are problems of reciprocity. in addition, the case of china is particular and sensitive in view of the threat of industrial and other espionage.
in writing. ‒ the report refers here to the conclusion of a strategic agreement between europol and china. strategic agreements involve exchanges of information other than personal data, while operational agreements include the latter. our group often abstains when it comes to strategic agreements, while we oppose operational agreements in order to avoid any disclosure of personal data. in this case, the agreement is certainly strategic, but it concerns a country from which we can fear certain risks, such as industrial espionage for example. therefore, i opposed the agreement.
in writing. ‒ china, with its 1.3 billion inhabitants, has several criminal organisations, which it combats by developing the fight against organised crime: measures against aid to illegal immigration, human trafficking, money laundering, counterfeiting of the euro, and corruption in sport. europol, the european intergovernmental criminal police agency, needs to work with china. this strategic agreement will allow, in particular, the exchange of expert opinions, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, as well as training and advisory activities in the context of specific investigations. the agreement also categorically excludes the exchange of personal data. the agreement with china will facilitate and intensify the fight against organised crime and help to strengthen international police cooperation, while ensuring the protection of personal data. i therefore vote in favour of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text is an agreement on strategic cooperation. unlike operational agreements, it therefore does not provide for exchanges of personal data. it provides for exchanges of information such as expertise, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, etc. while we welcome cooperation with china to increase efficiency in preventing serious forms of crime, we oppose this strategic cooperation which does not guarantee the protection of our data and processes.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between europol and the people's republic of china. it should be noted that the european police office arbitrarily collects personal data in europe and may refuse to disclose it to the citizens concerned who request it. however, it is necessary to ensure that the countries with which the european union concludes these police cooperation agreements offer all the guarantees of respect for freedoms. but following the scandals of the giant spying on european governments and institutions by the nsa and the german authorities, we are no longer able to provide these guarantees on the european side. i also note that for china, the agreement legitimately excludes the exchange of personal data, whereas with the americans, this was not a problem, even after the nsa scandal. finally, one can question this readiness to conclude cooperation agreements between europol and third countries even though a new europol regulation is under discussion and introduces new, more transparent procedures for this type of agreement. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ europol has, in accordance with decision 2009/934/jha, initiated the procedure for the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement with the ministry of public security of china in the field of preventing and combating serious crime. we believe that this agreement with china poses a significant risk of industrial espionage. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ europol has started the procedure for concluding a strategic cooperation agreement with the ministry of public security of china. the proposal provides for the council to adopt an implementing decision authorising europol to approve the agreement, which involves the exchange of information, excluding personal data. we are in the habit of abstaining in this case and voting against when it comes to operational agreements. the case of china, however, is special, given the risk of industrial espionage. it's not possible to support this adoption.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this vote on the china-europol strategic cooperation agreement is to make the prevention of and fight against serious crime more effective. they contain the exchange of information excluding personal data, whereas operational agreements involve the exchange of information, including personal data. however, as i see that this is both a strategic and an operational agreement with china, a country where the risk of industrial espionage is not negligible, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the approval of the conclusion by the european police office of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the republic of china and europol. the agreement, which excludes the exchange of personal data, will make it possible to better combat organised crime networks, in particular through the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information.
in writing. ‒ in order to be able to demonstrate greater effectiveness in preventing and combating serious forms of crime, europol has, in accordance with decision 2009/934/jha, initiated the procedure for concluding a strategic cooperation agreement with the ministry of public security of china. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. it seems to me that the european union is putting its member states at great risk with such an agreement because it will be passing on a lot of confidential data to china. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to approve the conclusion by the european police office - europol - of a strategic cooperation agreement with china. this necessary cooperation will be strengthened, in particular, in the fight against organised crime networks, which do not have borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol. the text also calls on the commission to carry out an evaluation of the provisions of the cooperation agreement and to inform parliament and the council of the conclusions of this evaluation. it is important that the european union continues to strengthen its international cooperation in the field of security.
in writing. ‒ in order to be able to demonstrate greater effectiveness in preventing and combating serious forms of crime, europol has, in accordance with decision 2009/934/jha, initiated the procedure for concluding a strategic cooperation agreement with the ministry of public security of china. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. i usually abstain when it comes to strategic agreements, and vote against when it comes to operational agreements (since this is the possibility of exchanging personal data). the case of china, however, is special in view of the risk of industrial espionage. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ when we hear the recurrent debates on china in the european parliament, it is surprising to say the least that we are being asked to ratify a police cooperation agreement with china. this strategic cooperation agreement between europol and chinese intelligence services is intended to prevent serious forms of crime. while it explicitly excludes the exchange of personal data, which i welcome, this agreement is similar to most cooperation agreements with europol and is therefore characterised by a high degree of vagueness as to the type of information that will be exchanged. what types of information on criminal investigation procedures are we talking about? what kind of strategic analysis results are we talking about? what are the agreed retention periods? what purpose? once again, it's all fuzzy. and in an agreement with a state where respect for human rights is at least a real issue, we can expect much more transparency. i am voting against this text, which was adopted by the epp and the conservative and socialist groups, with the liberals abstaining in a large majority.
madam president, the agreements on so-called economic partnerships with the african, caribbean and pacific countries arouse reluctance on the part of all governments, regardless of their political colour. in truth, they are not partnership agreements. it is an incredible machine for producing immigration, since it immediately triggers a decline in the revenues of the states concerned and, therefore, in the health, social, educational and equipment measures for these countries, and above all an invasion of our goods, which has the result of killing the local economy, increasing unemployment and pushing the rural populations to the cities - those countryside where food crops are ruined by the products of our countries' agriculture. this mechanism increases the production of monocultures, which cause damage by pollution and a mutilation of all traditional cultivation methods in these regions. finally, it is obvious that it is causing the population to move from the countryside to the city and from the city to the outside. i believe that history will judge very harshly the blindness we show at a time like this in voting for agreements of this nature and putting absolutely unbearable pressure on the governments of this area.
in writing. ‒ the european union wants to perpetuate what it sees as the advances of the cotonou agreements. these are based on three pillars (development, trade relations and political dialogue). apart from the fact that the union does not need to have any form of diplomacy, the cotonou accords were a disaster for africa. by replacing a system of gradual free trade with a paternalistic system where the northern countries agreed to pay higher customs duties to allow the accelerated development of this area, the cotonou agreements contributed with other factors such as the policy of international institutions to delay the creation of african industries protected by high customs duties, which was the objective of france with the cooperation project. instead, the gigantic african cities, particularly because of a massive rural exodus, are real centres of consumption but essentially not centres of production. finally, one can only be surprised at the lessons that the union is allowing itself to teach in this text on corruption. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which has been the subject of an opinion of the committee on budgets. the simultaneous expiry of the cotonou agreement and the multiannual financial framework provides an opportunity to decide on the budgetisation of the european development fund. this suggestion will help to promote the acp-eu special relationship.
in writing. ‒ by replacing a gradual free trade system with a system deemed paternalistic where the northern countries agreed to pay higher customs duties to allow for the accelerated development of this area, the cotonou agreements contributed, along with other factors, such as the policy of international institutions, to delaying the creation of african industries protected by high customs duties. the african cities, which have become gigantic as a result of a massive rural exodus, are simply centres of consumption rather than centres of production. we must work towards cooperation that is more beneficial to all parties.
in writing. - africa is in ruins. africa is ravaged by civil wars. the most fanatical islamism continues its inexorable bloody path from the north to the south. just yesterday, the un under-secretary-general warned the world of the reported deaths of tens of thousands of children in nigeria, terrorized by the barbarians of boko haram. in the sahel, massacres and abductions by the aqim are happening one after the other. elsewhere, china is re-colonizing a continent that europe left in haste half a century ago. and we respond with eternal repentance. this is all our fault, so we need to inject even more billions into the danaid barrel of development aid. despite all the studies showing that development aid in the past has done nothing. what are the words of our parliament? these are empty words to convince us that the acp-eu partnership plays an important role in achieving the millennium development goals, when we see that it does not. i am not sure that the rapporteur has spared us this wooden tongue!
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which is a glaring example of european blindness to the failure of its own policies. the report seeks to endorse the alleged advances made by the cotonou agreements, which have had many negative consequences for african countries. the main 'progress' of these agreements was to impose a brutal free trade regime on the acp countries, preventing them from developing or protecting their industries by means of customs duties, which could have allowed the accelerated development of this area, as france wanted with the cooperation project. this policy has led to a massive rural exodus, with large african cities becoming centres of consumption but also deserts of production. what's the outcome? 80% of the 'least developed' countries are in the acp area. at the same time, the union, which is trying to replace the member states in its diplomacy, has avoided a genuine policy of co-development which would not only enable these countries to flourish economically but also offer a future to young africans who are now being forced to leave their homes by emigration.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to extend the cotonou agreements beyond 2020. these free trade agreements have been particularly damaging to the acp area, preventing states from encouraging the emergence of local industries, given the absence of protective customs duties. direct cooperation between the member states and the acp countries is much more effective than the european union commission's interference in the internal affairs of the acp area, and it also propagates an ideology that is not well suited to african realities. for all these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ with this report, the european union wishes to maintain its relations with the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific) before 2020, the date on which the cotonou agreements expire. these agreements were intended to contribute to the development of the acp countries by promoting their integration into international trade, establishing a constructive dialogue with their national authorities and involving economic and associative actors in the implementation of projects. these agreements have proved to be disastrous in those countries which have been forced to adopt a gradual free trade system which prevents them from protecting their nascent industries and agriculture by means of tariff barriers. in this context, the european union no longer has any diplomatic legitimacy to establish relations with third countries, especially since this is the exclusive competence of the member states. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement's acquis is the result of a combination of factors. it brings together a large number of states parties through development cooperation, political cooperation and economic and trade cooperation, and has a common institutional framework and a large budget: the european development fund. this partnership is based on a set of core values and principles, including respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable management. i voted in favour of this report because the relevance of the cotonou agreement has not yet been demonstrated. the report emphasises several key objectives for 2030: making the new agreement a political project based on the principle of ownership and abandoning the donor-recipient mentality; strengthening political dialogue; strengthening the autonomy of local and regional governments; allow private sector financing in the development process under certain conditions; use economic partnership agreements as tools for regional development and integration.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report follows the public consultation launched by the european commission on the future of the partnership between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states after 2020. the cotonou agreement has strengthened political ties between the two parties and developed close cooperation to combat poverty, but the results are still insufficient. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. the report stresses the need to maintain the cotonou agreement by establishing a legally binding framework agreement based on three main principles: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. considering that the acp states are important political and trade partners for the european union and that it is necessary to draw the lessons of past partnerships in order to improve future relations with the acp states, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. it is essential to combat poverty in the world and in africa. the current framework has not allowed for sufficient action to be taken in this direction. by re-establishing our relations with the acp countries through regional agreements, we will be better able to provide targeted and concrete solutions for the human and economic development of these countries. i also believe that the greater involvement of parliamentary actors, civil society and the private sector, envisaged in this report, is essential in our efforts for the progress and security of our partners.
in writing. the cotonou agreement, which governs relations between the european union (eu) and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states, expires at the end of 2020. the situation in both the european union and the acp countries has changed over the past 20 years, due to internal developments but also to external challenges such as climate change. it is therefore important, as we approach 2020, that the framework for eu-acp relations focuses on environmental protection, migration management and the fight against inequalities within and between countries. this strategic cooperation should take into account the objectives of co-growth and co-development. to do this, we need to identify priority areas for action, such as africa's energy independence, sustainable management of natural resources or diversification and strengthening of its economic fabric.
in writing. ‒ vote against: one can only be surprised at the lessons the eu is allowing itself to learn from this text on corruption (point 11).
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that it is essential to establish a new framework for cooperation and dialogue between the eu and the acp countries, which takes account of the political and social changes that have taken place in recent years and which allows the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development and the fight against poverty.
in writing. ‒ as the eu is revising the cotonou agreements, we must remember the disastrous effects on the african continent. after the victory of unbridled free trade over the paternalistic practice of higher customs tariffs for the northern countries, the african economy was held back in its development. finally, let us try to recognize the impossibility of an imperialist transposition of our western values into africa and condemn the eu's use of the acp countries to impose its binding framework on the states, whose resources it uses to unfairly conduct its own foreign policy. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr robert neuser, on the future of relations between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific states. this report opens the debate and prepares the future of relations between the eu and the acp countries, always with the cotonou agreement as the framework. the vote by parliament reiterates its commitment to supporting political and economic cooperation with these countries. i welcome this initiative which is aimed at a fair trade relationship which should enable the two areas to benefit from exchanges and develop. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contributes to the debate on the future of the partnership between the european union and the acp countries by setting out the priorities of the parliament. while reaffirming the achievements of the previous agreement (a legally binding framework agreement based on the three pillars of political dialogue, cooperation and trade), this report suggests ways to further deepen and improve our relations after 2020: more regionalisation, a budgeted european development fund, a strengthened political dialogue and a better involvement of civil society and the private sector in particular.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the cotonou agreements are bad for africa and hold back its development. the future of acp-eu relations cannot depend on these free trade agreements which are being imposed on it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. apart from the fact that the european union does not need to have any form of diplomacy, it should be remembered that the cotonou free trade agreements are a disaster for africa. these have delayed the creation of african industries, and they have contributed to the creation of gigantic african cities linked to a gigantic rural exodus. furthermore, how can we accept that the eu uses the european development fund to take over achievements due to direct contributions from states (recital x) and presents itself as the friend of africa when it uses the acp countries to impose its binding framework on states (paragraph 2), intends to create a special procedure to manage the overseas territories of states (paragraph 29) and to remove them from negotiations with the un or the african union? finally, one can only be surprised at the lessons the eu is able to teach on corruption (paragraph 11).
in writing. ‒ this report aims to perpetuate what the european union considers to be the advances of the cotonou agreements. signed on 23 june 2000, they are based on three pillars: development, trade relations and political dialogue. for my part, i think that the cotonou agreements have not advanced africa. before these agreements, the countries of the north paid higher customs duties to allow for the accelerated development of the zone. a system considered 'paternalistic' by the western world. the cotonou agreements have replaced this with a gradual free trade system. the direct consequence is a huge delay in the development of african industries, an unprecedented rural exodus and the creation of ultra-concentrated megacities, which are gigantic centres of consumption, not of production. finally, the moral lessons that the eu is constantly teaching, especially on corruption, are surprising to say the least. for these various reasons, and above all to sanction these agreements which are not the success they promised, i voted against.
in writing. the cotonou agreement, adopted in 2000, will expire in 2020. it is the legally binding framework for relations between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. it now provides a reference framework, based on values and priorities shared by 107 countries. it is the largest international partnership agreement, both in terms of the number of signatories and in terms of the political, developmental, economic and trade dimensions it covers. the future of eu-acp relations is a key issue in view of the political and strategic challenges it poses in the long term. in order to adapt the partnership to new international challenges, the report calls for the preservation of the previous achievements of the cotonou agreement beyond 2020. the report also stresses the urgent need to incorporate the outcomes of the major international conferences of 2015: new sustainable development goals, new development financing framework, paris climate agreement/cop21. i am convinced that the future of the eu-acp relationship is a major issue and i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report on the future of acp-eu relations raises several problems. first, it proposes to deepen the political dialogue between the eu and the acp countries. while political cooperation with african countries is welcome, it is not for the european union to lead it. the member states still retain their prerogatives in the field of foreign policy. moreover, the economic relations between the eu and the acp countries, based on the cotonou agreements, illustrate all the shortcomings of european trade policy. this is an example of a paternalistic system where the northern countries agreed to pay higher customs duties to allow the area to develop more rapidly. finally, despite the fact that the cotonou agreements were a disaster for africa, the european parliament welcomes their success and wants to continue the approach envisaged. we can't accept that.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement, which governs relations between the states of europe, africa, the caribbean and the pacific - 107 countries! - is the most extensive international cooperation agreement in existence. signed in 2000, it expires in 2020. while the european commission is reflecting on the future of this eu-acp partnership, it was important that the european parliament set its conditions for the renewal of a possible cotonou ii agreement. i personally believe that it is essential that eu-acp relations remain balanced and that their commercial aspect does not take precedence over the pillars of political cooperation and development aid. this aspiration is shared by the neuser report, which sets strict conditions (and currently not respected by the commission) for the negotiation of eu-africa trade agreements. the report also recalls that the cotonou partnership is primarily intended to promote common values (democracy, the rule of law) and shared objectives (the un sustainable development goals, cop 21), without obscuring the indispensable political dialogue symbolised by the joint parliamentary assembly, particularly on human rights. conversely, the european union must not skimp on development aid vis-à-vis its acp partners. i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu is trying to perpetuate and justify the cotonou agreements. these are based on three pillars (development, trade relations and political dialogue). the aim here is to develop structures and to deepen procedures, such as the political dialogue of articles 8 and 96 or the new form of epas (economic partnership agreements). it should be stressed that the eu has no diplomatic competence, in any form. it should also be remembered that the cotonou agreements were a disaster for africa. by replacing a system of 'progressive' free trade with a system considered too paternalistic, where the northern countries agreed to pay higher customs duties to allow the accelerated development of this area, the cotonou agreements helped to delay the creation of 'african industries protected and perpetuated by high customs duties', which was france's objective with the 'cooperation project'. today, increasingly large african cities, a phenomenon promoted by rural exodus, have become real centres of consumption, but not yet centres of production. so i objected to this file.
in writing. ‒ this vote on the future of eu-acp relations aims to ensure that the cotonou agreements are maintained. however, these agreements were a disaster for the development of africa, since instead of introducing a system of progressive free trade, a system was established which was considered paternalistic, where the northern countries agreed to pay higher customs duties to allow the accelerated development of this area. as a result, this has helped to delay the creation of african industries according to the 'listine' method of educational protectionism, the development model adopted by emerging asian countries. nor does this text raise the question of the relevance of the cfa franc. considering that it is up to the states to decide their foreign policy and that these agreements are detrimental to the development of africa, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. i particularly support the request for the creation of a specific financial instrument for the overseas countries and territories which have so far benefited from the european development fund. the edf should be devoted exclusively to cooperation and development in the acp countries. the report also calls for the partnership between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states to be maintained and for political dialogue between them to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the neuser report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. the report aims to contribute to the debate by setting out the european parliament's priorities for the future eu-acp relationship. it stressed the need to maintain the cotonou acquis, a legally binding framework agreement based on three pillars: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. it then explores some possible developments, such as more regionalisation, a budgetised edf, or the strengthening of political dialogue and better involvement of civil society and the private sector.
in writing. ‒ the eu is committed to maintaining what it sees as the advances of the cotonou agreements, which are based on three pillars (development, trade relations and political dialogue). apart from the fact that the union does not need to have diplomacy, it must be remembered that these agreements were a disaster. by substituting a system of gradual free trade for the paternalistic system whereby the northern countries agreed to pay higher customs duties to enable the development of this area, they contributed, among other factors, to delaying the creation of african industries. furthermore, how can we accept that europe uses the edf (european development fund) to claim achievements due to direct contributions from states (point x) and to present itself as the friend of africa when it uses the acp countries to impose its binding framework on states (point 2), that it intends to create a special procedure to manage the overseas territories of states (point 29) and to make them disappear from negotiations with the un or the african union? finally, one can only be surprised at the lessons that the eu is allowing itself to teach in this text on corruption (point 11). i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2000, the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states signed the cotonou agreement, a framework for political and economic cooperation for a period of 20 years. it is therefore time to rethink our partnership strategy with these states, most of which are part of geographical areas that are growth areas beyond our borders. i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of acp-eu relations and sets out the ways in which the partnership between the union and the acp countries can be improved. the fight against poverty is the central objective of european support to acp states in difficulty. but i firmly believe that economic growth is the only way to achieve sustainable development. investing in large-scale projects to help these acp countries finally have a real capacity to integrate into global value chains must be the priority of the future eu-acp cooperation framework. more generally, this relationship will necessarily have to adapt to structural changes, in particular demographic changes, if the eu-acp partnership is to serve long-term development rather than short-term objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the european parliament's position on the future relations of the european union with the acp countries after 2020, i.e. when the cotonou agreement expires. it is crucial that the post-2020 partnership with the acp countries be renewed and that it remains legally binding. the report calls for improvements to the current structure while maintaining the acp-eu acquis, including the commitment to human rights, human development, good governance and democracy. it is essential that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the fight against poverty and eventually its eradication, and human rights, are placed at the centre of the future agreement. i supported this text which also calls for the budgetisation of the european development fund if this is combined with the maintenance of the allocated amounts and the creation of an instrument to finance security expenditure linked to development.
in writing. ‒ the european union is committed to maintaining what it considers to be the progress made in the cotonou reports. it should be remembered that the cotonou agreements are based on three pillars (development, trade relations and political dialogue). the union does not need to have any form of diplomacy and it must be remembered that the cotonou agreements were a disaster for africa. indeed, by replacing a system of gradual free trade with a paternalistic system where the northern countries agreed to pay higher customs duties to allow the accelerated development of this area, the cotonou agreements contributed with other factors such as the policy of international institutions to delay the creation of african industries protected by high customs duties, which was the objective of france with the cooperation project. why reject the natural organic democracy of african countries instead of practicing an imperialism of values which is no longer in vogue and is a sinister farce? finally, one can only be surprised at the lessons that the eu is allowing itself to teach in this text on corruption. i voted against this text.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the relationship between greece and the eurozone is a chronicle of a huge mess. beyond hypocrisy, it is the consequence of the absence of a european government. having admitted greece, the eurogroup should have been watching it like a hawk, but this was the time when germany and france were breaking the rules of co-ownership of the euro, the stability and growth pact, with impunity. in 2009, we took the measure of disaster and found that, while greece was over-indebted, its main creditors were domiciled in the eurozone. no one was asked to provide athens with public works and equipment, weapons systems and other expensive supplies. greece, on the other hand, has given in to ease, taking advantage of european aid and the sudden drop in interest rates on its abysmal debt and giving free rein to corruption and cronyism. so let us agree that the responsibility is broadly shared. these incriminating cases can no longer remain in the democratic underground. we must put them on the public square if we are to move the lines and break down the smoke screens erected in the name of respect for national sovereignty. it is to the credit of the european parliament that it has taken up this challenge by deciding to set up a financial assistance working party, composed of elected european members, to bring the debate to life as we do today. we went to greece in march to try to take stock of the third programme of macroeconomic adjustment. we also hear regularly from the commissioners, the court of auditors, the european investment bank, the european financial stability mechanism and the international monetary fund, but we have to go further. the next step, ladies and gentlemen, is to draw up a comprehensive and uncompromising report on the state of greece, which goes beyond political considerations. the person who is to be in charge of this report from the european parliament must work closely with the greek parliamentarians so that european and national parliamentarians can work together on the budget. the control of the bailout can no longer be left to the finance ministers of the eurogroup alone, who, since the creation of the euro, have made opacity and mutual complacency the golden rule. that is to say, the commission's vigilance and diligence are vital, but only pressure from the representatives of the other european peoples whose currency is the euro will help our greek friends to carry out the reforms and to put in place the necessary pedagogy among their public opinion. a european currency requires a genuine european democratic governance. the crises in europe, and in particular the euro crisis, have given rise to a continental public opinion. it is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, as elected representatives of europe and of the member states, to be the sounding board for this emerging public opinion and to build confidence.
madam president, commissioner, greece has made extraordinary efforts in terms of reforms and budgetary seriousness in order to fulfil all its promises to the european union. the report by the greek government, more than a year after the agreement reached in august 2015, is all the more remarkable as the country is at the forefront of the refugee crisis. no reason can be put forward to prevent the release of the new tranche of almost eur 2.8 billion provided for in the programme. but greece's debt is unsustainable, at nearly 180% of gdp, despite three successive bailouts. that is why even the imf pleaded on 23 september for debt relief. this relief is urgent; it would make the primary budget surplus target of 3,5% of gdp in 2018 realistic and, above all, ensure the country's sustainable recovery. there can be no double standards in the face of each other's political timetables, and i cannot understand why some people might say: 'well, greece must make the reforms and we will see, after our own elections, whether we can discuss the debt.' grexit was prevented, but at the cost of tensions that weakened rather than strengthened the european spirit. that is why i think that these endless discussions do nothing to justify the need for new economic governance, including a budget for the euro area. awareness of this issue is all the more crucial as europe is going through a period of disruption due to brexit, which requires us to clarify our objectives and safeguard strategic interests in the negotiations that are under way. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". the uk has never been part of the euro zone, so i don't know what we're talking about. as for greece, i understand that it is one of the countries of the south you mentioned. greece, including under mr tsipras, has used all its credibility, all its strength, all its capacity for reform and mobilization to remain in the euro zone. there must be a reason for this, and i fully support it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must all admit that a number of indicators have changed in greece, as evidenced by its primary surplus, which many other member states cannot take advantage of. but how can we rejoice when we see the colossal suffering that the greek people have endured? i agree with you, commissioner, that the ball is now in the court of the european institutions. the eurozone ministers will have the responsibility to unlock the new loan tranche as early as next week, and we expect them to do so. now the agenda must be on debt relief so that we can finally consider getting out of this never-ending crisis. however, all the sacrifices imposed on the greek people have demonstrated the inadequacy of the euro area's tools to respond to asymmetric shocks. we need a budgetary capacity of the euro area, not in 20 years in a utopian future but quickly, with a timetable for implementation, so that we have the tools to deal with the next crises. we also need a union budget that is up to the challenge. the revision of the multiannual financial framework marks the beginning of a new phase: it will have to involve both an increase in the ceilings and a reform of the european fund for strategic investments so that it also benefits the states which need it most, such as greece.
madam president, commissioner, as we do every year, we are meeting to discuss the health of greece. this european "dallas" between the troika and the greeks is endless. the question is whether the country has implemented the structural reform policies imposed by brussels - which implies euro-austerity. and who is more competent to oversee all this than a commissioner who has done the opposite in his own country? mr moscovici, like the ump, increased public deficits when he was minister of the economy in france. he never cut back on bad government spending, which would have allowed the economy to get back on track. he has especially refused to challenge ultra-liberal dogmas, notably the euro, the single currency, the financial abyss, which today commits france to more than 470 billion euros in financial guarantees to the european union. the greek people clearly said no to austerity in a referendum in july 2015, but whatever, the kleptocracy of private banks and commissioners under berlin has had nothing to do with popular democracy. greece is undergoing terrible privatization plans to the delight of german, chinese and qatari investors. the greeks have had incompetent, corrupt or greedy governments, but they do not deserve the fate that this european union has in store for them. the patriots are calling for a europe of nations with national economic governance and not a greece under the tutelage of brussels.
madam president, a greek friend of my wife regularly informs us of what is happening in greece in the economic and social spheres. she is particularly concerned about herself - she has waited two years for a very small pension - and her children - they are unable to enter the workforce in a sustainable way. i would like to commend the work of the greek government in trying to redress the situation, as commissioner moscovici has rightly pointed out. we must applaud this courage in having put in place difficult reforms, but we must not ask for the impossible. greece has come a long way, and europe has no right to sacrifice greece and its people on the altar of the convergence criteria, which will be difficult to meet in any case in the short term. the question of debt must of course be asked, not only in greece, but also in europe in general. europe has saved the banks for the first time. is it not time to save european social rights?
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the current commission, the juncker commission, is very firmly committed to respecting its obligations as set out in the treaties and in the code of conduct for commissioners. among these obligations are the independence and integrity of the members of the commission. the commission stresses two major concepts: transparency and exemplary behaviour. parliament and all citizens must be assured that the commissioners act exclusively in the interests of the european union and that the necessary transparency is guaranteed. it is therefore essential to avoid any conflict of interest. the treaties - i would like to remind you of this - lay down the obligations of independence and integrity to be respected by the members of the commission throughout their term of office. article 245 of the treaty also provides that members of the commission are to observe the duty of honesty and discretion in accepting, after leaving office, certain other duties or benefits. the code of conduct for commissioners contains provisions which give concrete expression to the obligations imposed by the treaties. it aims to prevent any risk of conflict of interest by prohibiting members of the commission from exercising any other duties during their term of office, with the exception of strictly honorary duties or political activities, of course without a mandate. the members of this commission are men and women of conviction and political commitment. the code also provides for a procedure for authorizing activities planned after the end of their mandate. these are strict rules, compared with those which apply to members of the other european institutions or those in force in the member states. i'm beginning to have a rather long political life, at least a fairly respectable one; i have held many offices - as a member of parliament, as a member of the european parliament, as a local elected official, as a minister in my own country - and i can indeed testify that the rules laid down for commissioners are rather more robust than any i have had to live with before. this code has been revised several times, each time to be more precise and rigorous. these revisions have always been aimed at strengthening these provisions. i would like to dwell briefly on the post-mandate activities which have generated a great deal of interest. according to the code of conduct, when commissioners intend to pursue a professional activity, therefore, former commissioners, within 18 months of the end of their term of office, these members or former members are obliged to inform the commission of these activities. this 18-month period is in line with european and international standards and is intended to avoid situations of conflict of interest at the end of the mandate. in this configuration, the commission consults the ad hoc ethics committee when the proposed activity is related to the portfolio and then decides on the compatibility of the proposed activity on the proposal of the chair. in practice, this means that in the 18 months since the end of the previous commission, this commission - i am speaking of the juncker commission - has consulted the ad hoc ethics committee on 40 of the 114 activities notified by the members of the previous commissions. the committee adopted five negative opinions. in the event of a negative opinion, the members concerned have always, on each occasion, preferred to withdraw their notification rather than risk receiving a negative opinion from the commission as well. i think this shows how well the ethics committee works and how strong the rules are. all the decisions adopted by the commission are publicly available - i should like to say this - through its minutes. in order to ensure greater transparency, the commission has set up a web page where each decision is reproduced with a direct link to the corresponding minutes as soon as they have been adopted. criticisms of laxity or lack of transparency are therefore unfounded. we are facing debates which are serious enough and which public opinion considers important enough not to add to them or to imagine other types of failure. moreover, no rule, even the strictest, can substitute for the individual responsibility of the members of the commission. if we consider - and you mentioned two communications, which i have in fact grouped together - the recent cases of former commission president barroso and former vice-president kroes, no extension of the obligations imposed by the code of conduct could have prevented their choice of professional development. there may be some misunderstanding about the individual responsibility of some. the declarations of interests of the commissioners are the responsibility of each individual. the statement must be accurate and complete in order to allow for effective consideration of the risks of conflict of interest, and again it must be precise, up-to-date and to the point. i would like to conclude by saying that the president is following the implementation of the code of conduct closely and personally and considers that at this stage no change in the code would have prevented the cases which are now the subject of particular attention by parliament and public opinion, which does not, of course, prevent discussion and the formulation of some of the assessments which the president has also had the opportunity to make known.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the difficult situation we are in is rooted in the shortcomings and the generosity of the people, given the trust that they place in their leaders, as permitted by the code of conduct of the commissioners. firstly, and this is important, the initiative to draft this code of conduct is the commissioners themselves. so they are judges and parties and, from that point of view, it's really not a good thing. ironically, it was the barroso commission itself that, in 2011, was responsible for the revision of the code of conduct. she wasn't exactly severe. secondly, the call-off period is far too short. currently, she is 18 months. the legislative texts on which the commissioners can be influenced by lobby groups have a much longer life, much longer duration: three years, five years and sometimes, as in the case of the nrp, a good ten years. it is therefore imperative that this period be revised to remove all suspicion. thirdly, and this is very important, the code of conduct for commissioners establishes an ad hoc ethics committee, but this committee is only advisory. it is the commission itself which is bringing the matter before it, whereas it should be independent and sovereign and should be able to decide for itself. so here are my recommendations. first, we need an independent ethics committee. secondly, as i have just said, allowing him to be self-reliant. finally, to conclude, here is an example of what i call a healthy democracy: canada, a very demanding country. ministers, state secretaries and members of parliament are banned from any lobbying activity for five years. it is a commissioner who is in charge of overseeing this case who makes the law. he is elected by the parliament for a seven-year term. this is democracy. - i'm not a good listener.
madam president, mr moscovici, i listened to your speech and i wonder if we are living in the same reality, because i hear you very clearly say that nothing needs to change and that everything is fine. i personally do not share this view and i have the impression that the vast majority of european citizens do not share it either. so why is mr barroso's departure from goldman sachs so serious? because it is part of a decade of loss of legitimacy of the european institutions, and of the commission in particular, which is no longer seen by european citizens as the area of the european general interest - you know that well - but as the area of defending private interests, especially those of the most privileged and the banks. i will just mention a few names: mr romano prodi, goldman sachs italy's adviser on international affairs, who became president of the commission in 1999-2004; mr mario monti, commissioner for competition in the same commission, who was hired by goldman sachs in 2008; mr mario draghi, vice-president for europe at goldman sachs between 2002 and 2005, who becomes president of the european central bank. who can imagine mr delors or mrs veil leaving the european commission and the presidency to go to work for a private bank? there are solutions, contrary to what you said. we must change things, we must have a high independent authority to stop the commission judging itself by its peers, we must extend the period of prohibition of public-private bridges and we must have exemplary sanctions when commissioners have lied or concealed from the public interests which are in contradiction with the functions they hold.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, edith cresson and the fictitious jobs, peter mandelson and chinese dumping, john dalli and the tobacco industry, jean-claude juncker and luxleaks, miguel arias cañete and the panama papers, josé manuel barroso and goldman sachs, and now nelly kroes and the bahamas leaks. you've probably figured it out, it's not a litany of saints, but rather a litany of sick people. mr moscovici, this is just one example of the long list of european commissioners involved in conflicts of interest and corruption scandals before or during their term of office. each commission brings its share of shameful business. how, after so many scandals, can you still believe in the honesty of this brussels europe? how can you not see that the aim of this european commission is to serve the private global lobbies? you have to be naive, crazy or a traitor to not face reality. so, of course, you will tell us that we need more transparency, more rules, more surveillance, but that is ignoring the problem because brussels europe is the problem, and these few scandals are just the tree that hides the forest. you want to solve the conflict of interest problem? so put an end to this ultra-liberal and corrupt europe, mr moscovici. give sovereignty to the states and let them decide their own economic governance in the interest of all their people.
madam president, commissioner, i would have liked to address the president of the commission, mr jean-claude junker, because he said that mr barroso was his friend. mr barroso is not my friend. i have never voted for him, as others have, but i believe that being president of the commission implies obligations. being a commissioner is a huge burden. i'm not saying that once you're a commissioner, you can't work. but you can't have served the european public interest and then go to work for goldman sachs. i'm not even saying we shouldn't be allowed to go work for a bank, but goldman sachs? goldman sachs is the exact opposite of the general european interest. we can't let this go by without saying something. the 18 months say nothing about this, and yet article 245 - as we sometimes introduce a little poetry or literature into the legal system - says that after the termination of office there is a duty of honesty and delicacy. no one can think that mr barroso has shown such delicacy. as for mrs nelly kroes, she simply lied. when it was heard by this parliament in 2004, we had denounced the risk of a conflict of interest. it was protected by mr barroso on behalf of the great liberal alliance. because i believe that the commission is an essential institution, that we need it to make the european ideal a reality, we ask you to revise the rules, we ask you to appoint a commissioner ...
madam president, commissioner, mr juncker's inaction in the face of the scandal is endangering the legitimacy of the institution he chairs. the barroso and kroes cases have had the effect of a bombshell in public opinion, similar to the cahuzac case in france. some of the flaws in the system are obvious to all. yet, the commission, in a state of stupor, dares not move, to the point of continuing to work, as if nothing had happened, on an anti-leaks plan. you're putting yourself in an untenable and deleterious position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that the council will take them up. it is time to bring the european union up to speed on transparency, by tackling the problem of concealment without hesitation, by standardising wide access to documents, particularly in the context of our committees of inquiry, and finally by creating a high independent authority to monitor the financial interests of commissioners and members of parliament, capable of investigating and bringing cases to court. you know very well, she's proven herself in france. show us you have nothing to hide. stop playing the game of generalized distrust.
madam president, we would like to be able to say that the bahamas leaks, like mrs kroes' case, are isolated cases, regrettable but marginal lapses in ethics and fairness. sadly, the facts prove otherwise. in this context, i have to say that it's a bit shocking to hear that this is all about personal morality, because our conception of law, of transparency, cannot be variable geometry. it should be remembered, however, that mrs kroes, to speak only of herself, is suspected of serious offences: tax evasion, deliberate lying to the representatives of european citizens, false declarations, a clear conflict of interest between her private activities and her public responsibilities. i ask you: in what democracy worthy of the name would it be acceptable that a person suspected of such acts should not be brought to justice? so if we want to hear from mrs kroes in the committee investigating the panama papers, the commission must refer the cases of mrs kroes and mr barroso to the court of justice. we must review the rules, which are far too vague, on the definition of conflicts of interest, which must be more precise, on parliament's powers of scrutiny, which must be greater, and on the penalties involved, which must be heavier. that is the price we must pay to regain the trust of the european citizens.
in writing. there was josé manuel barroso who went to goldman sachs. there is neelie kroes, former commissioner for the digital economy and competition, now at uber, and apparently also employed by merrill lynch, who conveniently 'forgot' - whoops! - that she was still running a bahamas-based company when she was commissioner. there's also connie hedegaard, the former climate commissioner, recently hired by volkswagen. where does the list end? many speakers pointed out the weaknesses in a code of good conduct for commissioners, which they themselves had drawn up. mr moscovici, adding his cynicism to that of his former colleagues, explained to us why this code will not be changed. i don't agree with that. it must be. and that, on a clear and non-retroactive basis, real sanctions be imposed. they are currently very small: it is only a question of depriving people of their pensions who are earning ten times more in their new jobs anyway. i propose to add a form of exclusion in extreme cases: neither they nor the firms that employ them should be on the list of approved lobbies and have access to the european institutions. that should make them less attractive.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioners, members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in recent years i have had the opportunity to visit many refugee camps on the syrian border, in lebanon, in italy, on the balkan route and in camps in bavaria. unfortunately, the worst of the camps i saw last july was the one in calais. these are not things happening halfway around the world, but in europe, a few hours from this house. for my part, i would like to emphasize what you have mentioned, commissioner, particularly the situation of unaccompanied minors, the situation of the children in calais, of whom there are now more than 6 000 in this camp, the situation of 1 000 children who are exposed to cold, fatigue, fear, violence, harassment, forced labour, prostitution, despair, disappearance. last week my country, france, was condemned for the situation of a kurdish child in this camp, who lived in the jungle of calais and has family in the uk. my country has twice refused to register him, to register his asylum application. but here, everyone knows that the application for asylum is a mandatory process before family reunification can be considered. beyond the controversy and all these tragic situations, three essential and immediate things must be done about these children: first, to register all the children who arrive at the calais site and the many slums surrounding this sector of my country; the second is to guarantee access to accurate information in their own language and adapted to their age on the right to apply for asylum in france with the dublin reform and on family reunification procedures; and finally, the third is to implement appropriate reception and sheltering so that they are not left in the hands of smugglers and criminal networks. these three simple measures must be implemented immediately, pending dismantling and simply in order to respect our european obligations and the treaties.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, thank you for your impeccable french. in 1989 the fall of the berlin wall was celebrated by all. today, new walls are being built and multiplying in europe and elsewhere. calais is a symbol of this. since 2000, barbed wire has been erected, raised and lengthened. today we're going to plant more and we're going to dismantle this camp of misery for the third time. more than 10,000 people live in this area, including more than 1,000 minors, most of them unprotected. we're gonna move them again without solving the problem. they want to go to the uk because they have ties, family and they think they can easily find work there. if they apply for asylum, they have to wait weeks, and the acceptance rate of these applications in france is among the lowest in the european union. on this basis, we are distinguishing between the good refugees and the others, who are supposed to be deported as soon as possible, including to their country of origin, whatever it may be, as if they had no other rights. like many others here, i was in calais. i met these men, these women, these children, i heard their stories, their life stories, their distress, their hallucinatory journey of violence. calais is not a franco-british affair, nor is it just a transport problem. european law, however imperfect, is flouted, particularly for unaccompanied minors. it is humanity, consideration for their situation that these men, women and children need. security policies come at a cost: one police officer in calais for every five migrants. how much for the home policies? it is time to act for the dignity and respect of the rights of those who are in calais because they have nowhere else to go.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, calais has become the laboratory of a france, of a europe subject to the invasion of migration. this flood of migration is the sad reality of what you modestly call 'the policy of accepting refugees'. you are loudly and clearly expressing your indignation at the fact that the people are opposed to welcoming the migrants, but are you prepared, each of you, to live through what the people of calais are going through every day? are you prepared to endure even a tenth of the nightmare of these humble frenchmen, who have only one right, that of silence? if you were a farmer in calais, would you be prepared to see your crops trampled daily by migrants? if you owned a small house in calais, would you be prepared to see the value of your property fall by 40 percent and live behind fences and barbed wire to prevent migrants from entering your garden? if you were a trader in calais, would you be prepared to see your business drop by 50% and file for bankruptcy? if you were a driver in calais, would you be prepared to risk a road accident every day because of the shells and molotov cocktails thrown by migrant groups? i know hundreds of calaisians who would like to share your peaceful life, even for a day. i therefore propose that, in full accordance with your noble ideals, you relieve the burden of those who can no longer bear it: are you prepared to live the daily life of the calaisians?
madam president, the 'jungle' of calais is now violence, the violence of those who want to cross the channel at any cost and whose victims are, among others, the lorry drivers who need to carry out their work in the best possible conditions and, in particular, in conditions of safety. unfortunately, these conditions do not exist for them, since they are threatened daily. the calais 'jungle' is also a humanitarian tragedy: for asylum seekers, whom we have a duty to welcome with dignity, but also for the so-called economic migrants, whom we cannot offer what they are looking for and who we must, in this case, send across the channel. what shocks me is that the only answer is to build a wall paid for by the uk and agreed to by the french government. what a terrible admission of impotence when walls are being re-erected all over europe! and what a smokescreen, really, because the united kingdom has never taken up its responsibilities in this matter, including the many miners who are waiting in calais to be reunited with their families. in these circumstances, i say, the touquet agreements must absolutely be renegotiated. you will allow me to salute the courage of the people of calais, who have endured this situation for too long, and the courage of the mayor of calais, natacha bouchart, who has assumed her responsibilities, even in the face of difficult choices. the lucidity is to realize that there is a gradual build-up of unease and anxiety among our fellow citizens, which is creating instability and fostering populism. i would like to conclude by saying that the humanitarian tragedy of the migrant crisis threatens to blow up europe. the way out of the crisis is not in each for himself, but in a european solution, a common migration policy and better control of our external borders.
madam president, madam commissioner, who can think that the french government is satisfied with the situation in calais? who can doubt the commitment of the president of the republic and his minister of the interior to resolve the situation in calais? no, mrs grossetête, the only thing that has been done is not to build a wall, but to organise at national level the relocation that we have also wanted here at european level. after brexit, some thought we could denounce the touquet agreements. mrs grossetête, here too, forgets that the former minister of the interior, who concluded the touquet agreements, all of a sudden wanted to denounce them, as if schengen were being applied by the united kingdom, as if the united kingdom could be a failure of the european union's migration policy, even though it does not belong to schengen. after brexit, denouncing the touquet agreement is simply ignoring geography. it is to allow the united kingdom to no longer assume its share of responsibility in the management of this situation. it is allowing asylum seekers to be exposed to terror again. it's allowing smugglers to continue their undermining work. it's more drama in the channel and on the roads. it is adding uncertainty to uncertainty, when it takes two years to denounce the touquet agreement. so, i say, the commitment of the french government, it is also what has made it possible to dismantle the smuggling networks. this is what makes it possible to examine asylum applications and it is what makes it possible to organise the dismantling of this jungle within the territory, which is why i thank the commissioner for his support.
madam president, commissioner, the situation in calais is intolerable. each dismantling, sometimes with bulldozers, adds to the inhumanity of the situation. the latest one, announced by françois hollande, must be carried out with the utmost respect for the population, especially for isolated miners, the youngest of whom is only 10 years old, because every time a camp is dismantled, children disappear. their safety must be our first priority. a decent and realistic housing solution must be offered to everyone. asylum applications must be dealt with thoroughly and promptly, particularly in the channel. two children have already lost their lives trying to reach the united kingdom, when a family reunification procedure should have been successful. and the building of the great wall of calais is the height of shame. i'm not even talking about his uselessness. no walls will stop those who have already braved all dangers to flee the war. nobody wants this wall, not the humanitarian organizations, not the trucks, not even the mayor of calais. there are other solutions: damien carême, the mayor of grande-synthe, has demonstrated this by building a humanitarian camp that provides dignified shelter for hundreds of men, women and children. it's time to change the approach; repression without alternative is not a solution, it only dehumanizes us.
madam president, i listened carefully to the commissioner, who has since left, and i heard him mainly complaining about the poor migrants. no word on the calaisis people. today, calais is a devastated city, where the daily lives of the inhabitants are beginning to look like the worst of nightmares. calais is dying, and it is taking its toll on your miserable handling of the migration crisis. this city is becoming the standard-bearer of your policies of systematic destruction of our nations. it's a symbol of your incompetence. you have in calais the illustration of the erasure of frontiers which you have organized. calais is the symbol of the failure of schengen. steeve briois gave some numbers earlier. i have more for you. since october 2015, the cost of reinforcing the crs and the mobile gendarmes, whom i want to pay tribute to today, who are completely exhausted by the attacks of migrants, amounts to 150 000 euros per day. a special budget was allocated to tear gas: an additional budget of eur 2 million. today, the french government announces the dismantling of the "jungle", by dispersing migrants in french villages. once again, the french are going to pay the bill. in oise, my department, the cost of forcibly taking in 300 foreign minors is 50,000 euros per year per child, at the expense of the community, at the expense of french taxpayers. these figures are absolutely staggering, especially when we consider that there are at least six million unemployed people in france and nine million people living on less than 1,000 euros a month. you call for solidarity and human values towards migrants, but you bring injustice, ruin and anger to the french and especially to the calais people.
mr president, madam commissioner, the suffering of migrants and the people of calais is obviously a major concern for us, but i would first like to talk about the road transport aspect. to give substance to this, i will quote very recent figures from the international road transport union which carried out a very thorough survey amongst road drivers: 4 500 lorries pass through this region every day, or more than 1.5 million lorries, 87% of businesses have already found migrants on board their vehicles, 22.5% of businesses have at least one driver who has been attacked and 30% of businesses, whose drivers refuse traffic to the uk, a total cost, just for the calais problem, of 2 billion euros for the sector, including damage to the vehicle or to the goods or fines imposed by the authorities when they discover illegal activities despite the foolishness of the drivers themselves, plus delays in waiting for vehicles to pass, and judicial detentions of lorries. i would remind you that, in view of the violence of the attacks and the fear of the drivers, many of whom are now armed, a number of drivers have passed roadblocks set up by the migrants with dead bodies: there has been talk - i would remind you - of 'mass graves' in calais.
mr president, commissioner, calais is today the scene of indignity, indeed of human cowardice, where migrants and inhabitants are really left to their fate. not a day goes by without lives being put in danger and the worst being on the horizon. there's not a week that goes by without death, without tragedy. every day, desperate acts are attempted by migrants to enter the uk. for example, tree trunks, objects are regularly installed on the roads to force the truckers to slow down in order to climb into the trucks to cross the border. the transport operators are daily expressing their fear of using these routes. the situation is intolerable for the people living in the area and there is an alarming increase in violence. the economy of calais is collapsing. human beings are being crammed into sanitary conditions unworthy of the land of human rights, as evidenced by the name given to this camp: the "jungle". faced with short-term solutions and broken promises, the calais people are unable to see the end of what has become a nightmare. i would like to pay tribute to natacha bouchart, mayor of calais, and xavier bertrand, president of the hauts-de-france region, for their courage and their refusal to give in to the populism that surrounds them. the european union must be the initiator of a complete renegotiation of the touquet agreements between france and the united kingdom - agreements which were doomed to failure from the moment they were drawn up. france and the european union can no longer be the impotent subcontractors of the border with the british. brexit must be an opportunity to confront the united kingdom with its responsibilities. the english border must return to england. madam commissioner, this is an emergency.
mr president, the humanitarian situation in calais deserves better than the hateful and demagogic rhetoric we sometimes hear here and there. i am glad that the debate today has been brought under control, with a few exceptions at least, because this situation is not tenable for migrants, for the inhabitants of calais or for workers. i would like to stress three points. first, we need to find sustainable solutions. this situation in calais is not new, but since the failed closure of sangatte in 2002, it has been made considerably more difficult by the number of people present. we must therefore find lasting solutions, which is why the french state has decided to dismantle the whole plant by the end of the year, in order to send clear signals that had never been sent before. secondly, this dismantling must take place in a way that creates prospects. we are talking about international protection and shelter, including unaccompanied minors, who are in unsanitary situations. i take this opportunity to tell nathalie griesbeck and marie-christine vergiat that there is more shortage of people to move to the uk than there is overcrowding, so minors can move as part of family reunification in the uk. this must be done in a responsible and orderly manner, with humanity and dignity, which means that people must be accommodated in human-sized premises and with appropriate social and administrative support. this is about providing practical solutions. thirdly, we must continue to fight for national and european solutions to coexist, because that is the only possible key. the situation in calais will not be resolved simply by renegotiating the touquet agreements, with all the uncertainties associated with the two years' notice françoise grossetête is not here to hear it and i regret it. it is therefore a duty to set an example and to share what we are asking with the member states of the european union at a time when too often they are turning their backs on european solidarity, as viktor orbán's referendum this weekend demonstrated.
mr president, commissioner, the humanitarian situation in the calais camp is catastrophic, as has been said. the first mistake that led to this situation was the dismantling of the sangatte red cross centre in 2002. the second mistake was, let us admit it, the touquet agreement in 2003. since then, we have this situation where the camp has grown to now have 7,000 people fleeing war and poverty, with the aim of joining their families in the uk. in the face of this humanitarian situation, the uk's inflexibility has left calais a dead end for many refugees. and in the face of these human tragedies, the european union has failed to take its responsibilities. in this context, france has been left to its own devices in handling this case. the president of the republic, however, during his visit to calais, presented a set of measures for the relocation of refugees from the calais camp, which are moving in the right direction. it has committed to offering shelter in reception centres to 80 per cent of the 7,000 refugees eligible for asylum. therefore, madam commissioner, the european union must show solidarity with calais and support this relocation of european funding, particularly in the framework of the asylum, migration and integration fund. i think that is urgent, as we all can see from the debate we have just had. compared to the scale of the refugee crisis in europe and in syria's neighbouring countries, the situation in calais is not insurmountable. let us act, madam commissioner, commissioner, to enable us, together with france, to give a humanitarian response to this dramatic situation.
mr president, i would like to return to the national plan for the reception of refugees, which was put in place by the government, and which means that today there are already 10 000 refugees who are being relocated to cities of solidarity. so, yes, there are in france, and it's not just these politicians who shamefully refuse any solidarity. you should have called him back! i also wanted to speak about the transport sector and to remind you of what the french government is doing, which is not doing anything, but taking action. incidents against truck drivers are down thanks to the safety measures that have been taken. a compensation fund of eur 4 million has been set up to help the affected businesses. in fact, it is rather the waiting times, due to border controls, that generate the most costs delays that carriers would encounter permanently if schengen were to disappear. contrary to what some hypocritically claim, closing borders is not a miracle solution to all our problems. the wall built at the request of the british government is an example of this. it is a dangerous panacea that echoes the disastrous effects of the walls erected in europe, such as in berlin, or more recently in hungary. instead of giving the illusion of action, the present government is moving forward in calais with humanity and dignity, in full respect of european and international law.
in writing. the de-mining of the calais jungle is a diversion of public attention. rather than placing the "migrants" in charters as should be done, president hollande supports the construction of miniature calais on the whole of french territory, except for the too-indolent corsica. of course, these nascent calais are bound to grow considerably. in australia, there are no camps as boats loaded with "migrants" are boarded and then sent home. in france, there are camps and there will continue to be camps with the policies pursued by the government and wanted by the european union, which assumes to want so-called "replacement" migrations because of the fallacious pretext of the low birth rate of germany or italy. to end the calais situation in france, we must put an end to the deadly logic of unconditional acceptance of the other imposed by european policies and the lobbying of externally subsidised associations to abolish national borders.
in writing. for several years now, the number of migrants in calais has been steadily increasing. the current migration crisis in europe has only aggravated this situation. today, some 7000 migrants live in deplorable conditions in the "camp of the moor" and in grande-synthe. in this context, the french authorities, acting with responsibility and dignity, are proposing long-term measures to close the calais camp permanently by the end of 2016. they are in particular carrying out a census of available places on french territory in order to open centres capable of receiving 9,000 migrants. the aim of the distribution of these migrants is to provide them with decent living conditions. finally, following the last franco-british summit, the uk increased its financial support by €22 million, in particular for the admission of unaccompanied minors to its territory, bringing its financial effort to €100 million.
in writing. the current migration crisis is challenging europe. the challenge of solidarity first: solidarity with those populations who are fleeing war and who are gathering en masse in conditions unworthy of our continent, despite the efforts of associations and local elected officials, as is the case in calais. but we also want to show solidarity with the people and businesses of these calais communities who are suffering with dignity and calm the disastrous consequences of a situation for which they are in no way responsible. to provide a lasting response, the european union must therefore simultaneously meet the challenge of effective border control. it is indeed absurd that the only truly watertight border in europe should be between france and britain, and that it should pass through calais! the coast of the hauts-de-france will become an external border of the european union with the departure of the united kingdom, and the european union can no longer accept that a member state alone carries out controls on its territory on behalf of a third state. i therefore hope that the touquet agreements will be renegotiated as soon as possible and that the european union will support this approach.
in writing. i support this initiative 100% and thank manfred weber for proposing it. the interrail pass, which would allow anyone aged 18 to visit europe by train, is an eco-friendly means of transport if available, and could become the second initiation rite for european youth after erasmus. with the advantage of being more accessible, since only 2% of students go abroad on exchange. it is a concrete initiative with a reasonable budget. in any case, travel is the only thing we buy that makes us richer. it would enable young people to get to know each other, their culture, their country and to become aware of a common history and a common european destiny. of course, this proposal is only a drop in the bucket compared to the challenges europe must face in helping young people: unemployment, loss of a place to call home, the world's ecological, digital and demographic upheavals. but it's a first step. and every journey begins with a first step.
mr president, commissioner, happy are those who, like ulysse, have had a good trip, because from 2017 they will no longer pay roaming charges, but unfortunate are those who remain, because they will continue to pay for their calls abroad. we have promised to end roaming charges by june 2017. we are on the way to achieving this with the finalisation of the ongoing negotiations on fair use and the revision of wholesale tariffs. however, we must be very careful in our communication because otherwise, by 15 june 2017, european citizens will think they can call anywhere in europe for the price of a national call. this will not be the case: the alsatian frontier worker who wants to call his german colleagues will still have to pay an extra charge. after abolishing roaming, we must work to bring down the sometimes exorbitant cost of international calls. however, two pitfalls must be avoided: firstly, some operators already offer free calls in europe so the market is competitive in some member states and secondly, the telecommunications infrastructure is national when you call abroad, you call on another network, so who has to pay for this? i am sure we can solve these problems in the next telecommunications code.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the author of the question rightly reminds us that this proposal has been on the table for quite some time, for three years exactly. i remember when it was placed under the leadership of madam reding. it is no surprise that this has been on the table for some time, given the sensitivity of this proposal, because in fact the regulation deals with many complex issues which lie at the heart of the criminal law systems of the member states. let me update you on the state of play of our work. after very intensive and constructive work, we have now reached a point where the member states agree on most of the provisions in the draft regulation, and it looks possible that negotiations in council can be concluded in the near future. the presidency is treating the discussions with the highest priority with the objective of closing the file by the end of the year. in this context, we are ready to work – let me underscore this –very closely with parliament. let me briefly mention one issue that has been raised in earlier contacts with parliament and which is very important for all of us, namely the need to ensure that the office is both independent and efficient. let me explain in more detail: the current structure of the office builds on the idea that the college member of a given member state will be in charge of investigations and prosecutions in his or her member state of origin, and will supervise them. this organisation has been chosen mainly for practical reasons, in particular with a view to ensuring the efficiency of the office. the legal systems and cultures of the member states still vary to a considerable degree, and it is clear that only a prosecutor with his or her background in a given legal system will be able to know exactly what actions are most appropriate and efficient in that given state. i can assure you that the council wishes to ensure that there is no ambiguity on these issues. the council remains convinced that the structure proposed in the current text fully ensures the independence of each european prosecutor and of the office as such. i also believe that the current council text is, by and large, in line with the main wishes and expectations of parliament. a detailed picture of the state of play on the draft european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) regulation, containing all the provisions of the regulation that ministers have preliminarily agreed upon, is freely accessible. this draft should be very close to final outcome. however the documents still do not include a number of provisions: on judicial review, cooperation between the eppo and eurojust and relations with third countries. these provisions will be included in a new consolidated version, which will hopefully be completed in the coming weeks. the main task of the presidency is now to ensure that outstanding reservations are resolved and that the few remaining gaps in the text are filled. in other words, the council is relatively close to an agreement on the full text. as noted in your question, it is also clear that the eppo regulation must be made coherent with the eurojust regulation and with the directive on the protection of the union’s financial interests or ‘pif directive’. the council adopted its general approach on the eurojust regulation in march last year and is ready to start negotiations with parliament at any time. certain provisions need to be coordinated with the eppo regulation, but we do not foresee major difficulties. the council agrees with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) that it would be useful to ensure that the pif directive is adopted before or at least around the time of adoption of the regulation. the negotiations on the pif directive have been on hold since last year, but i am confident that the council and parliament will find a compromise solution in the near future. as regards the financial analysis, the commission is studying this important but complex issue, and it is likely that the commissioner is better placed to reply to this question. from the point of view of the council, i would like to underline that it is generally agreed that eurojust must continue to have sufficient resources to fulfil its tasks in an efficient manner. the eppo regulation should, for this reason, a priori not have any significant impact on the eurojust budget. finally, the exact nature of the operational, organisational and administrative links between the eppo and eurojust is one of the last issues which are still under discussion in the council. the council is working on a model according to which the eppo may rely on the support and resources of the administration of eurojust, and where eurojust will provide certain services to the eppo. whether there is a need to define these services, or if this could be left to the two bodies, is still under discussion. it is thus still too early to give a detailed account of the links between the eppo and eurojust. we will come back to you with a more precise reply in the coming months. let me however assure you that our aim is to ensure that the bodies complement each other, and that there is no duplication of work. the creation of the eppo must not lead to any weakening of eurojust.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as we all know, we face some crucial challenges in europe in the area of security, but also regarding our prosperity. we have a problem because crime does not know borders, as mr voss said before. this goes for big scope crime against eu money, including big cross—border vat fraud. crime is harming our economies and decreasing taxpayers’ trust. it is our duty to fight against this crime, which can be done only by joining forces. i am speaking about a pan-european issue that cannot be resolved by national authorities only. as you may know, eurojust and olaf are not equipped to lead criminal investigations and prosecutions, and national authorities are facing limits in addressing fraud cases, either for political or resources reasons. that is why i see the european public prosecutor as a specialised body dealing with financial crime in the eu, having the necessary competence to investigate and prosecute. we need a european public prosecutor to deal with the alleged fraud cases we all read about in some cohesion countries, but we also need it to tackle the big vat fraud cases, especially in the cross-border context – our very conservative estimation is around eur 50 billion in revenues lost every year due to vat fraud, and the real figure is probably much higher. we need an effective answer to these negative impacts on the eu budget, but also on national budgets. so, where are we on this? i know, replying to questions one and two, we are – as you also heard from the presidency – in the final stages of our negotiations, and the commission fully supports the efforts of the slovak presidency to achieve a political deal on this by the end of this year. we are hopeful that the council will be able to finalise the remaining chapters of the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of the eppo, in particular the provisions on the judicial control of the office and on relations with third countries and international organisations, with non-participating member states and relations with eurojust, in october. provisions with respect to staff matters relating to the setting—up of the eppo would also need to be added. at the justice and home affairs council on 14 october, the slovak presidency will present a complete consolidated text to seek the conceptual support of the council on the revised provisions. from the perspective of the commission, the current council text should still be improved on several points. two should be highlighted in particular at this stage. the first one relates to competence. the priority competence of the eppo on cases of fraud affecting the union’s financial interests demands that the eppo have access to information on all pif cases. the eppo needs to have competence to fight at least serious cross-border vat fraud. also, the rules on ancillary competence must not lead to a restriction of the eppo’s core competence in the pif area. the second point is on efficiency, because the efficiency of the eppo requires a flexible mechanism to redistribute work at central level between the european prosecutors, even if the general principle that european prosecutors supervise cases being handled in their respective member states is maintained. as already stated on numerous previous occasions, the eppo can only be launched with confidence if we streamline the rules concerning its competence, and strengthen the guarantees of independence, as well as the provisions on procedural rights. in addition, given that its material competence is defined by reference to the pif directive, finalising the directive is essential for setting up the eppo. now let me reply to questions three and four. the eppo, as a specialised body for financial crime, is to be seen as part of our overall structure in the european union to combat crime effectively. since eurojust will no longer work on financial crimes against the eu budget (so-called ‘pif cases’), it will be able to focus on the fight against terrorist threats or other crimes such as trafficking, drugs, and in our cooperation with neighbouring countries. in accordance with article 31 of the financial regulation, the commission’s services undertook an analysis of the financial impact of the changed eppo structure and competence following the council compromises. this paper, with initial working estimates, will be shared with you in parallel with ministers, at the justice and home affairs council on 14 october. this estimate also takes into account the synergies and the future relationship between the eppo and eurojust. the council model chosen for the eppo, based on governance by a college, will create the need for new posts in the eppo’s central office, but as a result of the eppo’s shared, rather than exclusive, competence it will overall lead to a reduction of posts at central level when compared to the original commission proposal. this will have an impact on costs. the cost implications of european delegated prosecutors (so-called edps) are still under discussion. it depends on how many edps will be appointed by the member states. as regards benefits, the commission expects that the inclusion of vat fraud into the eppo’s competence will bring considerable benefits in comparison to today’s situation where especially large intra-community vat fraud cases often remain undetected or are not followed up effectively. as regards the involvement of national parliaments, the council supports the approach proposed by the commission whereby the european chief prosecutor or one of the deputies may be requested to appear before national parliaments to give account of the general activities of the eppo. such appearances should be without prejudice to the eppo’s obligation of discretion and confidentiality as regards individual cases and personal data. axel voss raised a lot of other questions here, and i can confirm what you also heard from the minister that we are ready to come back between october and december, when we will go through a decisive period for the final version of eppo and reply to all your questions, both regarding the text and regarding the relation between the eppo, eurojust and olaf, and all the other practical matters, especially the financial conditions. i only wanted to declare here today that we are working on the cost—benefit conditions for the eppo, with full regard and full respect to the value of money, which means that we need to do the right thing, to do it in the right way, and to do it for the least possible money. so this is our aim, and that is also why we are working now on a very precise financial analysis. as for eurojust, i am not someone who would like to establish a new body for combating serious crime in europe by devastating the other one. i see the clear picture of combating crime in europe, standing on three very strong legs: one is olaf, which has to continue its work; the second is eurojust, which should focus more on crimes other than financial crime; and the third is the eppo, with full prosecuting competence. i believe that for the near future, from 2019 we will be able to do this reorganisation so that we will be able at european level to address all of the serious crime which the member states cannot investigate and prosecute efficiently. it is all about this. we are not replacing here the prosecution at national level; we are setting up a layer above it so that we are jointly more successful. finally, let me thank madam viviane reding, who is the mother of the proposal, for giving me the chance to continue what she started. i can only declare here that i will try to be a good stepmother to this proposal and i will do my best to push it to a successful result.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, 40 years ago the idea of creating a european public prosecutor's office was born. 40 years later, and since 2013, a legislative proposal has been on the table. today, after three years of negotiations between the states and the council, what is left in the end? three or four points. firstly, we wanted a european prosecutor's office with jurisdiction for major crossborder crime, transnational crime, transnational terrorism cases, because if criminals and crimes have no borders, our investigations and criminal prosecutions should have none either. it is a popular saying that the gendarmes should have at least the same weapons as the thieves. what's left? firstly, a european public prosecutor's office which will only be competent to protect the financial interests of the union. it is true that in the present context, with the increase in large-scale organized crime and criminal networks, it was time to limit the powers of such a prosecutor's office. secondly, a european public prosecutor's office, which is moreover limited within this very competence to combat fraud against the financial interests of the union, since the council has introduced limiting thresholds. thus, in the case of co-financing, if the union does not contribute more than 50% of the amount invested, the public prosecutor's office will not be competent. but everyone knows, and especially the european institutions, that the union usually finances projects at less than 50%. thirdly, a european public prosecutor's office has no jurisdiction when fraud is linked to another form of crime, such as trafficking or money laundering. fourthly, a european public prosecutor's office with no jurisdiction over vat fraud. madam commissioner, you have recalled the principle of this and the estimated loss of revenue that this represents, since the council refuses to incorporate vat into the directive on the protection of the union's financial interests. this is crossborder fraud par excellence. secondly, and this is obvious, we want an independent european prosecutor's office which can conduct its investigations and inquiries in full independence from national interests. what's left there, too? a european prosecutor's office with a decentralised structure, a complex organisation linked by the omnipresence of the national link, a prosecutor's office which will not have jurisdiction as a last resort, since in the event of conflicts of jurisdiction between a national authority and the prosecutor's office, it is the national authority which will decide as a last resort. the result of the negotiations in the council, commissioner, is simply worrying. the council has peeled away the original proposal and emptied it of its meaning, that of a european prosecutor's office which is strong, ambitious, efficient and, above all, independent. many of us in this house are wondering about the added value of this floor. the chapters on skills should definitely be reopened. in conclusion, please note that parliament's approval of the prosecution is not a given. yes, we are in favour of the establishment of a european prosecutor's office, but not at any price.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the idea of creating a european public prosecutor's office is only 20 years old, but it has raised so much concern that it has not succeeded. the commission in brussels has been trying to revive the project since 2013. surprisingly, the slovak presidency is now coming to his aid. i am resolutely opposed to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. criminal justice is, and must remain, a prerogative of the states. in france, it is rendered in the name of the french people. this is the view that is opposed to its being transferred, even partially, to a bureaucratic and undemocratic monster. in the field of criminal justice, what the european states need is cooperation, not integration. the french senate, like me, has denounced this project as too centralising. it rightly considers that it violates the principle of subsidiarity. but in my view the principle of subsidiarity is a deception. for the union, as philippe séguin said, this is not a legal principle but an efficiency principle which it uses to do what it wants, when it wants. the main thing is said, the rest is secondary. the rest is the parliamentary question as to when the european public prosecutor's office will be set up. i have an answer that fulfills my wish: never.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner, i thank you for having already, in your opening statement, cleared up many of the points of concern to this parliament. i would also like to thank my colleague, theodor stolojan, who is leading our working party with great efficiency and intelligence. the accounting standards developed in the wake of the financial crisis - as you recalled - were originally intended for banks, as the financial crisis revealed the need to strengthen the soundness of the global financial system, including through these accounting standards. it is in this spirit, and in line with the conclusions of the g20 in london in april 2009, that accounting regulators have been working on the replacement of ias 39. this reflection led to the publication by the iasb in july 2014 of the final version of ifrs 9, which aims to ensure greater transparency on credit risk in financial statements by adopting an approach to asset impairment that should be more responsive to changes in the credit cycle. ifrs 9 is designed to apply first to banking institutions and therefore raises two questions: first, in the absence of a real impact assessment, there are concerns about the potential effects of the application of this standard on investment, as it could introduce volatility in the accounts unrelated to the economic reality of a long-term lender. in a certain sense, we wish to refer here to the concept of 'public good' as developed by maystadt in his report. is not long-term investment the public good par excellence, especially in these troubled times? secondly, we are concerned - as you have mentioned - about the impact of this standard on the banking and insurance sector, and we obviously want to continue our work and collaboration in this area in good faith with efrag and its new president.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hear some in the media denouncing the transatlantic treaty, like the wind chimes that feel the wind turning, since the peoples have understood the reality of this transatlantic treaty. that does not prevent you, at the same time, from quietly passing its little brother, the treaty between the european union and canada, in october. this agreement, like its big brother, will establish a private justice system of exceptional quality so that multinationals can attack states. it is obviously shameful, indefensible and totally contrary to our principles. even though our farmers are already dying, you are going to increase the pressure on them by competing with canadian farmers who produce 30 to 40 per cent cheaper. on the migration crisis, your own statistics office, sorry eurostat, says that only 30% of them come from syria. what do you make of that? no, not at all. the irresponsible policy you are pursuing is bringing more and more economic migrants to us, and you have found nothing better than distributing blue cards that you are going to offer to asylum seekers in turkey, which will obviously create an unstoppable air appeal again. at the moment when the peoples are expressing to you, in every way, that they do not want to welcome migrants, you impose them against their will but this, i was going to say, you are used to. finally, you did everything you could to bring down the syrian government by plunging that country into a terrible civil war. you are now making a mistake by blaming russia, which is fighting the islamic state, for all the evils, but i say very clearly that this does not hide your overwhelming responsibility and that of mr weber's neo-conservative american masters who, since iraq, have thrown this part of the world into absolutely appalling chaos. mr juncker, you are completely out of touch with reality. i totally did. you tell us that you are planning to invest 88 billion in africa, while the european union is becoming poorer at a dizzying rate. you talk about job creation, but you just forget to talk about job destruction, which is obviously much more important today. you explain to us that the hungarian referendum is a victory for the european union, because there would have been a turnout of less than 50% when 95% of hungarians, or even perhaps 98%, have clearly said that they do not want migrants. i would remind you, mr juncker, that if i follow your analysis, the hungarians decided not to join the european union, since the referendum on eu membership was less successful than the referendum on migration. as for mr weber - i am not even talking about his statements, i am not talking about the monomaniacal attacks on mr farage or myself, we are used to it, we do not even pay attention to it anymore, in this case - i will mention his desperate lies to explain to us that britain is doing badly, while the whole of britain's economic indicators show that, in this post-brexit, it is doing much better than before the referendum and much better than the whole of our own countries, in this case. so it's because you're disconnected from that reality that people are running away from you. they're turning their backs on you, they want to let go of the moorings. the greeks, the danes, the poles, the hungarians, the dutch and the italians will be voting tomorrow in a referendum on the constitution, which will also be a referendum for or against the european union, and the french will be voting as soon as possible, i hope, of course.
mr president, the main points of migration policy still need to be addressed. the agreement with turkey is effective, but it only concerns syrian refugees. in the meantime, the flow from africa through libya - as you know, mr president - has picked up again. now, these migrants are mostly from west africa, which is generally at peace, and not from war-torn countries like somalia or sudan, so controlling the migration flows requires that the problem be dealt with from the top down at the european level. this begins with a common foreign policy: a policy of partnership with the countries of origin and transit, if they are at peace, and a policy of restoring peace, if they are at civil war. secondly, we need a european border guard corps. it is beginning to take shape, but it must be a permanent body and not just partial reinforcements in times of acute crisis. then it was time to imagine a new kind of european solidarity to help the member states that were geographically most exposed. authoritarian relocation is definitely not working! but there can be other forms of solidarity - real solidarity, as the president of the commission says - in the form, for example, of a contribution of personnel, material or money to the implementation of asylum policy. we can then begin to devise a common policy for economic migrants, based on quotas for each country of origin and each country of destination. all the legal tools are now available. will the 27 have the political will to use it? (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr lamassoure, we have one thing in common: like you, i am committed to helping africa to persuade africans to stay at home and thus avoid increasing the mass of economic migrants. in this connection, mr juncker has announced measures. what do you think? on the one hand, does the figure of €88 billion seem reasonable to you and, on the other hand, are you not concerned that nothing concrete has been done to accompany this announcement? it is not clear exactly under what conditions the 88 billion will be paid. i thank you for your answer.
answer is "blue cardboard". thank you for this question, which is very relevant. my personal position on the problem of development aid is that we are wasting a considerable amount of that aid. the european budget allocates some €9 billion to development cooperation each year, and this is added to by almost ten times the sum of the national aid allocated to development cooperation by the 28 countries. i think it is time to coordinate better and to concentrate this aid on those countries which need it most, with political conditions attached to it; we do not dare to provide for them in treaties, and when, by chance, we write them down, we do not dare to apply them.
mr president, i regret that we are preparing the european council without its president. mr. council representative, you will be discussing foreign trade at this meeting. learn from what happened in bratislava. at that summit we talked about defence and, just afterwards, the united kingdom - the country that decided to leave the european union - said that we had no right to go in that direction. in the field of external trade, you must use this european council to make progress on the issues that concern us. the implementation of a trade defence instrument is a major issue. you must also look at what happened, in particular, in the united kingdom vote: this vote says very clearly that those who had been sold free trade, practiced in an unbridled way, as a source of wealth, found themselves on the side of the road and refused this unbridled free trade. that is why you must rethink the union's trade policy so that it serves the interests of europeans and our need for solidarity with africa. we're counting on you, but don't forget the lessons of bratislava.
the question is "blue cardboard". my dear colleague, i do not know where you get this certainty that we would be in favour of immigration. you must have misunderstood us. we are opposed to the forced exile that this immigration represents, given the economic policies that are being applied. however, we take note of your advice on how to communicate. i can't believe you believe these things. they have nothing to do with reality. how do you explain that you believe it, when we say otherwise? immigration is forced exile. this forced exile is the result of the economic policies and the war policies which you have consistently supported in this house.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to give austria and romania the authorization to accept peru's accession to the convention, which will allow the convention between peru and the european union as a whole to enter into force. all the other member states of the european union have given their approval to peru to join.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which allows the international child abduction cases to be settled by allowing peru to accede to the 1980 hague convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it appears that peru's accession to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many peruvian citizens on its soil.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all the member states of the union. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. that is why i voted in favour of peru's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. peru must be free, if it so wishes, to join this system of international cooperation which makes it possible, in particular, to settle cases of international child abduction. there may be problems in the case of a separated couple with parents of different nationalities. the convention settles possible disputes of jurisdiction since it provides that the laws applicable are those of the state of the child's residence. it also allows for the immediate return of the abducted child. although i regret that the union now has exclusive competence in this area to the detriment of the member states, peru, as a sovereign state, has every right to accede to this convention and ratification of this accession will allow it to enter into force between the union and that country.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the adoption of this text because these countries have made the sovereign choice to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980, ratified by all the member states of the european union, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. in most cases, these abductions are linked to the divorce of the parents, in an attempt to exploit the lack of cooperation between states in obtaining custody of their child. this convention stipulates that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the purpose of this text is to give the european parliament its opinion on the entry into force of this convention between peru and the union, the latter now having exclusive external competence in this area. although i disagree with the loss of sovereignty of the member states, which leave it to the union to adopt this type of agreement for them, i voted in favour of this text. on the one hand, this convention promotes the return of children to their homes, and on the other hand, the accession of peru is welcome news.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction was established in 1980. all the member states of the european union are signatories to this convention. this private international law legislation imposes a uniform legal basis for the abduction of a child by one of the parents in the event of a bi-national separation. sometimes a parent abducts a child and is given legal custody in their home state. the other parent is then obliged to comply with this decision because of a lack of legal uniformity between the two states of which the parents are nationals. such situations must not happen again. we must do everything possible to ensure that children's rights are applied in the same way all over the world. i voted in favour of peru's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. ‒ these reports propose that the european parliament approve a council decision on the accession of peru to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction when two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. considering that these reports contribute to the harmonisation of international regulations on the management of family disputes, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. by establishing the primacy of the jurisdiction and laws of the state in which the child resides, the convention plays a key role in resolving issues surrounding child custody in the event of the separation of binational couples. the convention is an indispensable tool for the international protection of children and has also allowed the development of an accelerated procedure for the return of child abductees. however, for the convention to be applied, it is necessary that the accession of a state is accepted by the other states parties to the convention. although peru joined in 2001, austria and romania have not yet accepted this accession. in order to protect children linked to the peruvian community from abduction, we call on the council to adopt as soon as possible a decision authorising austria and romania to accept peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. every year, several thousand children are abducted by one of their parents. in the absence of cooperation between the child's state of origin and the state of residence, some cases cannot be resolved. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a legal instrument which recognises the jurisdiction of the courts of the state where the child resides. a dialogue can thus be established between the states parties to this convention to facilitate the return of the child who has been abducted. the european union supports the accession of third states to the 1980 convention so that its member states can build on a common legal framework to deal with international child abduction. in addition to the general objective of developing judicial cooperation, this regulation pursues the general objective of protecting the rights of the child. so the accession of peru to the convention is good news.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: in favour of the adoption of this text because these countries have chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council decision on the accession of peru to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction where two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. the safeguarding of the best interests of the child is essential and that is why i welcome the commitments made by countries in europe and the rest of the world to reaffirm their willingness to clarify the separation procedure so as not to be indirectly complicit in child abductions.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to strengthen cooperation between states on international child abduction in order to stop the exploitation of children by individuals from different states. by establishing jurisdiction according to the child's state of residence, the convention was able to resolve the issue of the return of children and to give the european union exclusive external jurisdiction. since the peruvian state has made the sovereign choice to accede, i have no reason to oppose the adoption of the text. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr angel dzhambazki, which endorses the council decision on the application of the hague convention between the european union and peru. this convention establishes a system of judicial cooperation. the procedure, which has wide support in parliament, will make it possible to put the best interests of the child at the heart of international court decisions, particularly in cases of divorce-related abduction. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the accession of peru to the hague convention because it is necessary to extend the list of states parties to this text, which guarantees the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained by one of their parents in a state and aims more broadly at enforcing rights of access, custody and accommodation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it allows for the settlement of cases of international child abduction the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the i am not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all the member states of the union. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to obtain custody of the child. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between peru and the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention's main purpose is to resolve childcare situations at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between peru and the european union as a whole. i therefore support the adoption of this text because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it concerns the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this text allows cooperation between the contracting states and determines the competent court when it is necessary to determine the custody of children in the event of separation of a couple whose parents do not have the same nationality. this text was drawn up and ratified by all the member states in order to avoid two courts from two different countries declaring themselves competent. the rule is simplified: the laws applicable are those of the state of the child's residence. the text also provides for the immediate return of the abducted children. finally, it has chosen to apply for membership, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of peru to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. the signatory states undertake that the court with jurisdiction for custody and access shall be that of the state of the child's residence. the aim is to authorise austria and romania to recognise peru's accession to the convention. a surreal vote when the right decision was taken by two sovereign member states to recognise the accession of a third country to an international convention. why would you do that ? because under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice, the commission now has exclusive jurisdiction over the application of that decision in civil matters in its territory. i challenge that limitation of sovereignty. i am voting for this recognition of accession to the convention for the protection of children across borders.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention's main purpose is to resolve childcare situations at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the union now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i therefore support the adoption of this text because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to deal with such cases. it has been ratified by all eu member states. its purpose is to resolve such situations at the international level, establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own account. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between peru and the european union as a whole. we are in favour of adopting these texts because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. ‒ the european union now has exclusive external competence in this area as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. as a result, member states no longer act on their own account. the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organizations. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i am in favour of adopting these texts because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in order to avoid as far as possible conflicts of laws or jurisdictions when resolving a dispute with an international dimension, international conventions should be signed and ratified by as many states as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves a council decision on the accession of peru to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu members, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction when two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. it is common for the courts in both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and to award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. i am in favour of the adoption of this text, because peru has chosen to apply for this accession. i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report which approves a council decision on the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical text on the council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union has competence in this area and a council decision is required.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. it is common for the courts in both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and to award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. i am voting for the adoption of this text because peru has chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to give the member states (with the exception of denmark, which is not covered by the convention, and the netherlands, which has already accepted it) the authorisation to accept kazakhstan's accession to the convention, which will allow the entry into force of the convention between kazakhstan and the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which allows for the settlement of cases of international child abduction by allowing kazakhstan to accede to the 1980 hague convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal after studying the evaluation carried out by civil justice experts from the member states. the functioning of the judicial system of kazakhstan and the will of this country allow the entry into force of the convention between the european union and kazakhstan.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. that is why i voted in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. kazakhstan should be free, if it so wishes, to join this system of international cooperation, which makes it possible, in particular, to settle cases of international child abduction. there may be problems in the case of a separated couple whose parents are of different nationalities. the convention settles any disputes as it provides that the laws applicable are those of the state of the child's residence. it also allows for the immediate return of the abducted child. while i regret that the union now has exclusive competence in this area to the detriment of the member states, kazakhstan, as a sovereign state, has every right to accede to this convention and ratification of this accession will allow it to enter into force between the union and that country.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the adoption of this text because kazakhstan has made the sovereign choice to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980, ratified by all the member states of the european union, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. in most cases, these abductions are linked to the divorce of the parents, in an attempt to exploit the lack of cooperation between states in obtaining custody of their child. this convention stipulates that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the purpose of this text is to give the european parliament its opinion on the entry into force of this convention between kazakhstan and the union, which now has exclusive external competence in this area. although i disagree with the loss of sovereignty of the member states, which leave it to the union to adopt this type of agreement for them, i voted in favour of this text. on the one hand, this convention promotes the return of children to their homes, and on the other hand, kazakhstan's accession is welcome news.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction was created in 1980. all the member states of the european union have signed this convention, which provides a legal basis for cases of parental child abduction. the media have too often reported on cases of child abduction by a parent who has been granted custody of a child in his own country following a separation between a binational couple. the other parent who is the victim of this situation is unable to claim custody. we were faced with inconsistency between different national judicial systems and a lack of cooperation between states. i voted in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to a council decision on kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu members, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction when two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. considering that these reports contribute to the harmonisation of international regulations on the management of family disputes, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. by establishing the primacy of the jurisdiction and laws of the state in which the child resides, the convention plays a key role in resolving issues surrounding child custody in the event of the separation of binational couples. however, for the convention to be applied, it is necessary that the accession of a state is accepted by the other states parties. although kazakhstan joined in 2013, all eu member states, except the netherlands, have not yet accepted this accession. in order to protect children linked to the kazakh community from abduction, we call on the council to adopt as soon as possible a decision authorising the eu member states to accept kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. every year, several thousand children are abducted by one of their parents. in the absence of cooperation between the child's state of origin and the state of residence, some cases cannot be resolved. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a legal instrument which recognises the jurisdiction of the courts of the state where the child resides. a dialogue can thus be established between the states parties to this convention to facilitate the return of the child who has been abducted. the european union supports the accession of third states to the 1980 convention so that its member states can build on a common legal framework to deal with international child abduction. in addition to the general objective of developing judicial cooperation, this regulation pursues the general objective of protecting the rights of the child. the accession of kazakhstan to the convention is therefore welcome news.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: in favour of the adoption of these texts, as these countries have chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council decision on kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction where two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. the safeguarding of the best interests of the child is essential and that is why i welcome the commitments made by countries in europe and the rest of the world to reaffirm their willingness to clarify the separation procedure so as not to be indirect accomplices in child abductions.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to strengthen cooperation between states on international child abduction in order to stop the exploitation of children by individuals from different states. by establishing jurisdiction according to the child's state of residence, the convention was able to resolve the issue of the return of children and to give the eu exclusive external jurisdiction. since kazakhstan has made a sovereign choice to accede, there is no reason to oppose the adoption of the text. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague angel dzhambazki, which endorses the council decision on the application of the hague convention between the eu and kazakhstan. this convention establishes a system of judicial cooperation. the procedure, which has wide support in parliament, will make it possible to put the best interests of the child at the heart of international court decisions, particularly in cases of divorce abduction. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention, as it is necessary to extend the list of countries party to this text, which guarantees the return of children who have been unlawfully displaced or retained by one of their parents in a state and aims more broadly at enforcing rights of access, custody and accommodation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it allows for the settlement of cases of international child abduction the eu has made the choice to apply for this accession. i know.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between the contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between kazakhstan and the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. its main purpose is to resolve childcare situations at international level, by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. once ratified, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i am therefore in favour of adopting this text, because these countries have chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it concerns the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this text allows cooperation between the contracting states and determines the competent court when it is necessary to allocate custody of children in the event of separation of a couple whose parents do not have the same nationality. this text was drawn up and ratified by all the member states in order to avoid two courts from two different countries declaring themselves competent. the rule is simplified: the laws applicable are those of the state of the child's residence. the text also provides for the immediate return of the abducted children. finally, it has chosen to apply for membership, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of kazakhstan to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. the signatory states undertake that the court with jurisdiction for custody and access shall be that of the state of the child's residence. the aim is to allow certain eu member states to recognise kazakhstan's accession to the convention. a surreal vote on the decision of sovereign member states to recognise the accession of a third country to an international convention. why would you do that? because, under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice, the commission now has exclusive jurisdiction over the application of that decision in civil matters in its territory. the decision does not apply to certain member states: denmark, which has an exemption clause on the union's civil justice policy, and the netherlands, which already recognised the kazakhstan decision before it became an exclusive eu competence. i challenge that limitation of sovereignty. i am voting for this recognition of accession to the convention for the protection of children across borders.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. its main purpose is to resolve childcare situations at international level, by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. once ratified, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i therefore support the adoption of this text, because the countries concerned have chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to deal with such cases. it has been ratified by all eu member states. its purpose is to resolve such situations at the international level, establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own account. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between kazakhstan and the whole of the european union. we are in favour of adopting these texts because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. ‒ the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area, as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. as a result, member states no longer act on their own account. the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organizations. once ratified, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i am in favour of adopting these texts, because the countries concerned have chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in order to avoid as far as possible conflicts of laws or jurisdictions when resolving a dispute with an international dimension, international conventions should be signed and ratified by as many states as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves a council decision on kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu members, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction when two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. it is common for the courts in both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and to award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. i am in favour of the adoption of this text because kazakhstan has chosen to apply for this accession. i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report, which approves a council decision on the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is of a technical nature and concerns the council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union has competence in this area and a council decision is required.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. it is common for the courts in both states concerned to declare that they have jurisdiction and to award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. i am voting for the adoption of this text because this country has chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to give the member states (with the exception of denmark, which is not covered, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted) the authorisation to accept the accession of south korea to the convention, which will allow the entry into force of the convention between south korea and the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which allows the settlement of cases of international child abduction by allowing south korea to accede to the 1980 hague convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it appears that the republic of korea meets the criteria for the effective application of the convention. the size of the korean community in europe also underlines the value of accepting this accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. that is why i voted in favour of korea's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of south korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. south korea must be free, if it so wishes, to join this system of international cooperation which makes it possible, in particular, to settle cases of international child abduction. there may be problems in the case of a separated couple whose parents are of different nationalities. the convention settles possible disputes as it provides that the laws applicable are those of the state of the child's residence. it also allows for the immediate return of the abducted child. while i regret that the union now has exclusive competence in this area to the detriment of the member states, south korea, as a sovereign state, has every right to accede to the convention and ratification of this accession will allow it to enter into force between the union and that country.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the adoption of this text because korea has made the sovereign choice to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980, ratified by all the member states of the european union, establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. in most cases, these abductions are linked to the divorce of the parents, in an attempt to exploit the lack of cooperation between states in obtaining custody of their child. this convention stipulates that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the purpose of this text is to give the european parliament's opinion on the entry into force of the convention between south korea and the union, which now has exclusive external competence in this area. although i disagree with the loss of sovereignty of the member states, which leave it to the union to adopt this type of agreement for them, i voted in favour of this text. on the one hand, this convention promotes the return of children to their homes, and on the other hand, the accession of south korea is welcome news.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention was created in 1980 and deals with the civil aspects of international child abduction. all the member states of the union have ratified it. the convention allows for the settlement of conflicts of jurisdiction where two courts each declare that they have jurisdiction over the custody of children in the context of the separation of a binational couple. every country has to cooperate in the case of child abduction. it's about protecting children. i voted in favour of this resolution approving the accession of korea to the hague convention.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to a council decision on the accession of south korea to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu members, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction when two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. considering that these reports contribute to the harmonisation of international regulations on the management of family disputes, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. by establishing the primacy of the jurisdiction and laws of the state in which the child resides, the convention plays a key role in resolving issues surrounding child custody in the event of the separation of binational couples. however, for the convention to be applied, it is necessary that the accession of a state is accepted by the other states parties to the convention. although the republic of korea acceded in 2013, all eu member states, with the exception of the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, have still not accepted this accession. in order to protect children linked to the korean community from abduction, we call on the council to adopt as soon as possible a decision authorising those member states of the union which have not yet done so to accept the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. every year, several thousand children are abducted by one of their parents. in the absence of cooperation between the child's state of origin and the state of residence, some cases cannot be resolved. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a legal instrument which recognises the jurisdiction of the courts of the state where the child resides. a dialogue can thus be established between the states parties to this convention to facilitate the return of the child who has been abducted. the european union supports the accession of third states to the 1980 convention so that its member states can build on a common legal framework to deal with international child abduction. in addition to the general objective of developing judicial cooperation, this regulation pursues the general objective of protecting the rights of the child. the accession of south korea to the convention is therefore good news.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: in favour of the adoption of these texts because these countries have chosen to apply for this accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council decision on the accession of korea to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction where two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. the safeguarding of the best interests of the child is essential and that is why i welcome the commitments made by countries in europe and the rest of the world to reaffirm their willingness to clarify the separation procedure so as not to be indirect accomplices in child abductions.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to strengthen cooperation between states on international child abduction in order to stop the exploitation of children by individuals from different states. by establishing jurisdiction according to the child's state of residence, the convention was able to resolve the issue of the return of children and to give the eu exclusive external jurisdiction. since korea has made a sovereign choice to join, there is no reason to oppose the adoption of the text. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague angel dzhambazki, which endorses the council decision on the application of the hague convention between the eu and korea. this convention establishes a system of judicial cooperation. the procedure, which has been widely supported in parliament, will make it possible to put the best interests of the child at the heart of international court decisions, particularly in cases of divorce-related abduction. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the accession of korea to the hague convention because it is necessary to extend the list of countries party to this text which guarantees the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained by one of their parents in a state and aims more broadly at enforcing rights of access, custody and accommodation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it allows for the settlement of cases of international child abduction the commission has also proposed that the i am not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the accession of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention's main purpose is to resolve childcare situations at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i therefore support the adoption of this text because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it concerns the accession of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this text allows cooperation between the contracting states and determines the competent court when it is necessary to determine the custody of children in the event of separation of a couple whose parents do not have the same nationality. this text was drawn up and ratified by all the member states in order to avoid two courts from two different countries declaring themselves competent. the rule is simplified: the laws applicable are those of the state of the child's residence. the text also provides for the immediate return of the abducted children. finally, it has chosen to apply for membership, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of south korea to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the signatory states undertake in particular that the court with jurisdiction for custody and access shall be that of the state of the child's residence. the aim is to allow certain eu member states to recognise the accession of korea to the convention. a surreal vote on the decision of sovereign member states to recognise the accession of a third country to an international convention. why would you do that? because, under opinion 1/13 of the court of justice, the commission now has exclusive jurisdiction over the application of that decision in civil matters in its territory. the decision does not apply to certain member states: denmark, which has an exemption clause on the union's civil justice policy, and the czech republic, ireland and lithuania, which already recognised the korean decision before it became an exclusive eu competence. i challenge this limitation of sovereignty i am voting for this recognition of accession to the convention for the protection of children across borders.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention's main purpose is to resolve childcare situations at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i therefore support the adoption of this text because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to deal with such cases. it has been ratified by all eu member states. its purpose is to resolve such situations at the international level, establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area. the member states are therefore no longer acting on their own account. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between korea and the whole of the european union. we are in favour of adopting these texts because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. ‒ the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area as confirmed by the court of justice in its opinion 1/13. as a result, member states no longer act on their own account. the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organizations. after ratification, the convention will enter into force between these three countries and the european union as a whole. i am in favour of adopting these texts because these countries have chosen to apply for membership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the accession of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in order to avoid as far as possible conflicts of laws or jurisdictions when resolving a dispute with an international dimension, international conventions should be signed and ratified by as many states as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves a council decision on the accession of korea to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu members, provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction when two courts claim jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. it is common for the courts in both states concerned to declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. i am in favour of the adoption of these texts because korea has chosen to apply for membership. i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report which approves a council decision on the accession of south korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical text on the council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union has competence in this area; and for that a decision of the council is necessary.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system of cooperation between contracting states to settle cases of international child abduction. it has been ratified by all eu member states. in many cases, these problems arise when a couple separates. if the mother and father are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states in order to secure custody of the child. it is common for the courts in both states concerned to declare themselves competent, with each of them awarding custody of the child to the parent who is a national of their state. the purpose of the convention is to resolve such situations at the international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the child's state of residence. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. i am voting for the adoption of this text because this country has made the choice to apply for this accession.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the commission must ensure that it addresses all forms of malnutrition, while closing the current huge funding gap for specific nutrition interventions. the commission must fulfil its commitments. implementing the sdg 2 plan to fight hunger and malnutrition is a priority!
in writing. ‒ 159 million children are stunted, 50 million suffer from emaciation (related to hunger). the commission's action plan aims to reduce the number of children with stunting by 7 million by 2015. in 2014, only 0.57 per cent of official development assistance was devoted to the immediate causes of undernutrition. the issue includes consideration of other forms of malnutrition, increased investment to combat the causes of malnutrition and the establishment of 'social safety nets' in these countries. the resolution recalls that by 2030, hunger and malnutrition are expected to be reduced, in particular by relying on small producers and farms, which are essential links. the new crops supported will have to cope with the inevitable climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment. support for food self-sufficiency and localism are essential. in this sense, genetic diversity of seeds is encouraged. food sovereignty is one of the keys to preventing migration to europe and malnutrition. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is important that global, national and local actors take genuine, coordinated and accelerated action to combat malnutrition in order to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the second sustainable development goal (sdg) of eliminating hunger.
in writing. ‒ according to this text, 159 million children worldwide are stunted, 50 million suffer from emaciation (related to hunger). the commission's action plan aims to reduce the number of children with stunting by 7 million by 2015. in 2014, only 0.57 per cent of official development assistance was devoted to the immediate causes of undernutrition. the resolution recalls that by 2030, hunger and malnutrition are expected to be reduced, in particular by relying on small producers and farms, which are essential links. the new crops supported will have to cope with the inevitable climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment. of course, all these measures also require new investment, which this resolution estimates at 7 billion per year to meet the objectives. this is done by asking for precise indicators to evaluate the results achieved by the eu action plan. it is obviously better to help people to live decently in their own homes than to let them come to us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution setting out the european union's objectives and commitments in the field of nutrition and food security in the world. 159 million children are stunted and 50 million suffer from emaciation (related to hunger). as serious sovereignists, we believe that developing countries, and particularly sub-saharan africa, must be given the means to achieve food self-sufficiency by retaining local producers rooted in their territory. these measures will also help to combat mass immigration by encouraging people to shape the future of their countries.
in writing. ‒ this question and motion for a resolution seek to further increase the eu's financial efforts to fight malnutrition and hunger in the world. even if the use of the funds is not sufficiently controlled, i am of course in favour of these provisions which aim at food self-sufficiency in the countries concerned. therefore, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on the european commission to tackle malnutrition in the world effectively by specifically allocating a budget of eur 400 million per year to food security. 159 million children are stunted and 50 million are wasted. the text therefore calls for the establishment of social protection systems in the countries concerned and for support for local producers who help to ensure food self-sufficiency. the text also mentions programmes for the education of children. these commitments obviously require substantial investments estimated at €7 billion per year. we are in full agreement with the philosophy of the text and we are in favour of increasing the share of development aid devoted to malnutrition, especially as this aid will help to fix people in their country of origin. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the global objectives and commitments of the union for nutrition and food security in the world. given the economic power of the european union and its member states, we have a responsibility to eradicate hunger in the world, to solve nutritional and food problems and to promote sustainable agriculture. our participation in this global work is all the more necessary as we face the growing food needs of a rapidly expanding world population and ever more pressing threats to the environment. we therefore call on the european commission to draw up a roadmap for its action on nutrition and food security in the world and call for increased long-term european financial investment in these areas.
in writing. according to the world food programme (wfp), 795 million people were hungry in the world in 2015, or 1 in 9. when it does not kill, this scourge creates irreversible damage in the development of the children who suffer from it. to combat malnutrition, the european union must act on the ground and in the long term, in particular on water, education, agriculture, food self-sufficiency and land management. development policy must take ownership of humanitarian outcomes, and this requires increased funding and donor coordination, tackling the root causes of malnutrition and intensifying information and prevention campaigns.
in writing. ‒ vote for: 159 million children are stunted, 50 million suffer from emaciation (related to hunger). the commission's action plan aims to reduce the number of children with stunting by 7 million by 2015. in 2014, only 0.57 per cent of official development assistance was devoted to the immediate causes of undernutrition.
in writing. ‒ no one is immune to the dramatic problems of hunger and malnutrition in the world, especially when it affects children. all initiatives aimed at encouraging food self-sufficiency, localism and strengthening the sovereignty of the countries concerned are welcome. in the long run, this will make progress in tackling a number of issues, both migration to europe and hunger itself. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution by linda mcavan on the global objectives and commitments of the eu on nutrition and food security in the world. while i support initiatives to highlight the challenges and progress that need to be made by the european union in eradicating hunger and malnutrition in the world, it is nevertheless necessary to keep a sense of proportion. the commission's proposal is to ban all gm crops, which can play a role in the fight against world hunger, and i think that is clearly disproportionate to the issues at stake.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on materials which can release certain toxic constituents in food because i consider this a major public health issue. by extending the range of materials covered by specific measures and improving traceability, we are ensuring that measures are taken for the health of consumers in the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it recognises the food sovereignty of states while trying to combat malnutrition i regret, however, the rejection of amendments condemning free trade and the abuses of multinationals. but the privatisation of seeds is fortunately not going to be a problem. i know!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. the resolution recalls that by 2030 hunger and malnutrition are expected to be reduced, in particular by relying on small producers and farms, which are essential links. the new crops supported will have to cope with the inevitable climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment. social protection systems are supposed to be put in place, guaranteeing, in particular, access to land and its management by these populations. this is while avoiding land grabbing by foreign multinationals or countries like china. the aim is to stop this, to prevent them from taking over these lands because they are excluding local producers who could use these farms for local food crops, helping their populations to ensure their livelihood. support for food self-sufficiency and localism is essential. in this sense, genetic diversity of seeds is encouraged. food sovereignty is one of the keys to preventing migration to europe and malnutrition.
in writing. ‒ the text here refers to the commission's commitment of €3.5 billion, of which €400 million is specifically for nutrition. the aim is to tackle the problem of the 159 million children who are stunted and the 50 million who suffer from emaciation (related to hunger). the commission's action plan aims to reduce the number of stunted children by 7 million by 2015. the resolution recalls that by 2030, hunger and malnutrition are expected to be reduced, in particular by relying on small farms, which are essential links. the new supported crops will have to cope with climate change, while respecting biodiversity and the environment. social protection systems must be put in place, guaranteeing access to land and its management by these populations, while avoiding the land grabbing by multinational companies. support for food self-sufficiency and localism are essential. food sovereignty is one of the keys to preventing migration to europe and malnutrition. women's education programmes are also offered. finally, the issue of food waste is addressed. as a result of all these aspects, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the resolution tabled on behalf of the deve committee seeks to draw the attention of the european commission to the problem of hunger and malnutrition among children in the world. it stresses above all the need to support the food self-sufficiency of developing countries, which can thus protect these populations from malnutrition. we also believe that food sovereignty is one of the ways in which we can prevent mass immigration from the regions concerned to europe. we therefore support this motion for a resolution despite some reservations about the need to commit funds from the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ following the eu's commitment to food security in the world, this report proposes interesting ways to combat malnutrition and hunger. the text recalls that 'the production of biofuels puts new pressure on the global food system, as it generates competition for access to land and water'. it also explains how the 'privatisation of seeds, through gmos, is endangering the food sovereignty of countries'. or criticizes the excesses of intensive livestock farming since "a third of the world's cereal production is used for animal feed". to remedy this, the text also proposes the promotion of 'family farms producing food crops for local consumption' and encourages 'agro-ecological practices'. i regret, however, the directives on breastfeeding which this report develops by proposing 'to increase the rate of exclusive breastfeeding by at least 50% during the first six months'. why not instead ensure that infants have access to healthy, nutritious food so that breastfeeding remains an option rather than a mandate? despite these reservations, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is about tackling the problem of the 159 million children who are stunted and the 50 million who suffer from emaciation (related to hunger). the commission's action plan aims to reduce the number of children with stunting by 7 million by 2015. the issue includes consideration of alternative forms of malnutrition, increased investment to tackle the causes of malnutrition and the establishment of 'social safety nets' in these countries. the resolution recalls that by 2030, hunger and malnutrition are expected to be reduced, in particular by relying on small producers and small farms, which are essential links. social protection systems are supposed to be put in place, including guaranteeing access to land and its management by these populations, while avoiding land grabbing by foreign multinationals. support for food self-sufficiency and localism are essential. in this sense, genetic diversity of seeds is encouraged. food sovereignty is one of the keys to preventing migration to europe and malnutrition. as a result of all these aspects, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a resolution on the commission's commitment of €3.5 billion for food security, including €400 million specifically for nutrition. support for food self-sufficiency and localism are essential. in this sense, genetic diversity of seeds should be encouraged. food sovereignty is one of the keys to preventing migration to europe and malnutrition. women's education programmes are also offered. the issue of food waste is addressed (every year 88 million tonnes are wasted in the european union). of course, all these measures also require new investment, which this resolution estimates at 7 billion per year to meet the objectives. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ support for food self-sufficiency and localism are essential. in this sense, genetic diversity of seeds is encouraged. food sovereignty is one of the keys to preventing migration to europe and malnutrition. programmes are also proposed, particularly for women's education (right to breastfeeding necessary to combat malnutrition, etc.). the issue of food waste is addressed (reminder: 88 million tonnes are wasted in the european union every year). of course, all these measures also require new investment, which this resolution estimates at 7 billion per year to meet the objectives. this is done by asking for precise indicators to evaluate the results achieved by the eu action plan. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on the european union's global objectives and commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. i am opposed to the fact that this text calls on the european union to abolish incentives for the production of biofuels from food crops. the development of new fuels, which are less harmful to the environment, is fundamental for the survival of future generations.
in writing. ‒ linda mcavan (s&d) proposes a question to the commission followed by a resolution on the commission's commitment of €3.5 billion, of which €400 million is specifically for nutrition. 159 million children are stunted, 50 million suffer from wasting. the commission's action plan aims to reduce the number of children with stunting by 7 million by 2015. in 2014, only 0.57 per cent of official development assistance was devoted to the immediate causes of undernutrition. the question considers other forms of malnutrition, increased investment to combat the causes of malnutrition and the establishment of 'social safety nets'. social protection systems must guarantee access to land and its management to prevent its appropriation by foreign multinationals or third countries. support for food self-sufficiency and localism are essential. in this sense, genetic diversity of seeds is encouraged. food sovereignty is one of the keys. educational programmes are also offered. the issue of food waste is addressed. these measures require considerable investment (7 billion per year) but would be really useful. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ eradicating malnutrition and hunger in the world are commitments of the european union, notably in the framework of the 2030 agenda. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution as part of the preparations for the un high level nutrition summit in 2016. we call for greater coherence between all the union's instruments on nutrition and food security. in this context, the member states of the union must become aware of their responsibility for the emergence of long-term food security, in particular by promoting the development of sustainable agriculture and local production.
in writing. ‒ 159 million children are stunted, 50 million suffer from emaciation (related to hunger). the commission's action plan aims to reduce the number of children with stunting by 7 million by 2015. in 2014, only 0.57 per cent of official development assistance was devoted to the immediate causes of undernutrition. the resolution recalls that by 2030, hunger and malnutrition are expected to be reduced, in particular by relying on small producers and farms, which are essential links. social protection systems are supposed to be put in place, guaranteeing, in particular, access to land and its management by these populations. this is while avoiding land grabbing by foreign multinationals or countries like china. the aim is to stop this, to prevent them from taking over these lands because they are excluding local producers who could use these farms for local food crops, helping their populations to ensure their livelihood. support for food self-sufficiency and localism are essential. in this sense, genetic diversity of seeds is encouraged. food sovereignty is one of the keys to preventing migration to europe and malnutrition. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ next steps towards achieving the global objectives and the union's commitments on nutrition and food security in the world (2016/2705 ((rsp)) the achievement of the un sustainable development goals (sdgs), in particular the second one, which aims to eliminate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, should be a key challenge at both european and global level. today, 795 million people do not have enough food to sustain an active life. the resolution adopted by the european parliament stresses the need for public water distribution services, the extension of social protection systems and the need to promote local production and small farmers. similarly, the objective of achieving food sovereignty is emphasised, particularly for the poorest countries. finally, calling for an increase in eu commitments (an additional billion) specifically for nutrition to meet the sdg targets is also in the right direction. i therefore vote in favour of this report, in the hope that it will not remain a dead letter.
in writing. ‒ our support for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is not unconditional. some of the changes to the commission proposal introduced by the council present real dangers to the independence, efficiency and added value of such a prosecution service.
in writing. ‒ the text reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union. the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another new body of the european union. it should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a new step in the development of european criminal law, which must remain a competence of the member states. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i wish to reaffirm my long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union's budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union. we must ensure that this proposal does not become an empty shell.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another new body of the european union. it should operate alongside olaf and eurojust. the latter agency was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. that is why i have spoken out against this project.
in writing. ‒ we all agree that the fight against fraud must be a political priority. fraud and corruption are clearly undermining our freedoms and our democracies. however, i believe that we have enough european tools at our disposal today, including olaf, eurojust and europol, not to add a new administrative, political and judicial layer. the european public prosecutor's office will be another structure, another theodule committee, whose task will be to apply european law that does not yet exist. we should, on the contrary, make the existing structures even more efficient and operational. the commission is using its classic technique of taking small steps to impose european justice on us in defiance of national courts and laws. enhanced cooperation between national prosecutor's offices is working well between member states. i am against the creation of this bureaucratic monster which would be the european public prosecutor's office.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust reaffirms its support for the establishment of this effective and independent office. the aim is to reduce the current fragmentation of national enforcement efforts to protect the union budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the union. the fight against fraud is being used to create a new union body which should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is in fact a new step in the stealthy development of european criminal law, whereas this should remain the exclusive competence of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which is a new step in the development of european criminal law, whereas it should remain a competence of the member states. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends the establishment of an independent european public prosecutor's office to combat fraud more effectively in the european union. the fight against fraud is thus being used to attack the sovereignty of the member states and to allow the european union to acquire new prerogatives, particularly in the area of criminal law. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. by contributing to the development of european criminal law, the creation of a european public prosecutor's office would be a further step towards the federalisation of the union, which we oppose on a daily basis. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which was tabled by my political group, the european people's party (epp), reaffirms the european parliament's support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office. the latter would make it possible to harmonise the member states' efforts in the field of law enforcement, and thus to combat fraud better within the union. i support these objectives and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust, of which i was a co-signer. in view of the slow pace of negotiations on this major issue, we must regularly and forcefully remind the council of the importance of the establishment of an effective and independent european prosecutor's office to combat offences affecting the financial interests of the union. in order to strengthen the europe of justice and to show europe's capacity to carry out major projects, i would like to reiterate my commitment to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office with clearly defined competences that will be able to cooperate effectively with eurojust.
in writing. at present, the union does not have its own means of prosecuting offences against its budget. each year, fraud against the european budget (including vat fraud) is estimated at around eur 3 billion. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office will therefore ensure the protection of the union's financial interests. while the european commission's proposal for a european public prosecutor's office launched in 2013 is a good move, member states are still dragging their feet on the idea of creating a supranational body that could interfere with their own judicial system. the european parliament, which will take a decision at the end of the negotiations between the council and the commission, will support the idea of a european public prosecutor's office with enhanced powers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against: the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a new step in the stealthy development of european criminal law, whereas it must remain a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the negotiations in the council on the creation of a european public prosecutor's office are not progressing quickly, and not in the direction desired by the european parliament. this is why parliament has decided to discuss it today. i am, for my part, resolutely opposed to this european prosecutor. initially designed to centralise investigations into cases of infringement of the union's financial interests, it is a complex body, creating conflicts of competence, and a duplicate of existing european bodies for judicial cooperation. the european parliament wants to extend the concept of the union's financial interests falling within the competence of the public prosecutor's office to such an extent that a large number of financial crimes of a general nature (money laundering, vat fraud, etc.) could escape national jurisdiction altogether, while their perpetrators, victims and actors would be only marginally 'european'. it is clear that the aim is to create a basis for purely european criminal law and procedure, above and in place of national laws. it is still the unhealthy dream of the united states of europe modelled on those of america, which even mr juncker seems to have abandoned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution to set up an independent european public prosecutor's office. this new tool should help us to combat fraud and financial crime more effectively by coordinating national judicial means. eurojust will be responsible for executing requests for cooperation between courts and for applying mutual recognition instruments to improve transnational prosecutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust, which have been stalled in the council for several years. i think it is time for the council to take a decision on this and finally adopt the directive on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union by means of criminal law (pif directive) which has been on the negotiating table since 2012. the lack of harmonisation and fragmentation of national enforcement systems has an undeniable impact on the effectiveness of the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the european union. it is essential that clarification is given on the division of competences between the eppo and national prosecutors when an allegation of fraud concerning union resources is established.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, an idea which i had advocated last year when i was the epp rapporteur on the fight against fraud with european funds. the purpose of this body will be to search for, prosecute and bring to justice those responsible for offences affecting the financial interests of the european union. the new proposal from the epp group is designed to better protect european taxpayers' money by adapting to new forms of fraud, in particular transnational fraud. i welcome this initiative and encourage the continuation of the debate, strengthening cooperation and action by the union in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to call for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, a fully-fledged and decentralised structure whose purpose will be to investigate and prosecute fraud or crimes against the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it exploits fraud in the union to create a european public prosecutor's office this is a new stage in the development of european criminal law. however, i believe that criminal justice should remain a prerogative of the member states. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to reaffirm my support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office, in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union's budget. a european public prosecutor's office would strengthen the fight against fraud within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office. it reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union's budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another new body of the european union. it should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a new step in the stealthy development of european criminal law, whereas it must remain a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the text reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the eu. the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another new union body. it should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a new step in the development of european criminal law, which must remain a competence of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text makes the fight against fraud a tool to create a european body which does not recognise the sovereignty of the states. it 'reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office', i.e. it 'lays down the first elements of a european criminal law, which we oppose'. criminal law must remain, by definition, a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have already opposed the creation of a european public prosecutor's office on several occasions. 14 national parliaments also expressed reservations. justice not done in the name of the sovereign people is not justice. and there is no need to create yet another supranational body when we already see the many complaints from states against the european anti-fraud office (olaf). there is also eurojust, which was set up in 2002 and whose task is precisely the coordination of investigations and prosecutions between the competent authorities of the states. in the end, the delimitation of powers between these three bodies is more than vague, as this new text from parliament also underlines. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public prosecutor's office. i believe that all this is just a subterfuge for an embryonic european fbi compiling personal data files with no proven effectiveness for justice. brussels would do better to worry about the conflicts of interest of its former leaders like josé manuel barroso and neelie kroes. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the text reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the eu. the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another new union body. it should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a new step in the development of european criminal law, which must remain a competence of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ we oppose this text which reaffirms parliament's support for the establishment of an independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union's budget. the fight against fraud once again served as an alibi for the creation of a new body in the european union, and above all for a new stage in the development of european criminal law, which still remains a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the text reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union. the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another new body of the european union. it should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a new step in the stealthy development of european criminal law, whereas it must remain a competence of the member states. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. the resolution aims to strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union and to protect the union's budget by setting up an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office to better coordinate the law enforcement efforts of each member state of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution put forward by my political group. the resolution reaffirms the long-standing support of the european parliament for the establishment of an effective and independent european prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union's budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the text reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union. the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another body of the european union. it should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a further step in the stealthy development of european criminal law, whereas it should remain a competence of the member states, and the proliferation of bodies is a guarantee of complexity, unnecessary expenditure and inefficiency. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which reiterates the european parliament's support for the creation of an independent and effective european public prosecutor's office. this would aim to reduce the fragmentation of enforcement efforts at national level, in particular to optimise the european budget and to be part of a dynamic of increased anti-fraud action within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which aims to reaffirm the european parliament's position on the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. the text calls for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of the enforcement efforts of each member state to protect the financial interests of the union. in such a context of increasing cross-border organised crime, particularly in financial matters, such a european public prosecutor's office would make it possible to combat fraud in an effective and dissuasive manner and thus protect the interests of taxpayers in all the member states participating in the union budget. as recalled in that resolution, it is important to note the important role of eurojust in improving cooperation and coordination between the competent judicial authorities of the member states. it is therefore urgent that the member states lay down the terms and conditions and the powers of such a european public prosecutor's office and its relations with eurojust in order to be able to combat financial crime effectively at european level.
in writing. ‒ the text reaffirms its long-standing support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union budget, which would strengthen the fight against fraud in the european union. the fight against fraud is thus instrumentalised to create yet another new body of the european union. it should operate alongside eurojust and olaf. eurojust was set up to facilitate coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in dealing with cases involving several member states. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is a new step in the stealthy development of european criminal law, whereas it must remain a competence of the member states. i voted against it.
mr president, how long are we going to continue to vote for such hypocritical texts as this? i abstained because it is a mixture of good intentions and absolutely astonishing silence and unacceptable rejected amendments. how can you talk about alstom and caterpillar, which are two leading companies in their technical field, without mentioning the part that goes to shareholder greed? alstom has distributed €6 billion to its shareholders over the last ten years, and caterpillar €1.7 billion. the us denounces them as people who cheat and expatriate their profits. yet you have refused to condemn profit-sharing schemes which allow companies to declare a deficit when they are not. you are asking for a european strategy in this area, but you are referring to the europe 2020 strategy, which is at the root of this kind of disaster. at the same time, you refuse to give priority to workers who want to become owners of their businesses by forming cooperatives. you refuse to transfer to them the funds from globalisation that you use to compensate for redundancies, but which you don't want to give to employees when they take over the management of their company. i regret the contempt which this text expresses towards employees by making them believe that it was voted in their favour when it was not.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. we need an ambitious european industrial policy if we are not to let whole sections of our industry disappear. the starting point is to anticipate restructuring and to strengthen the social dialogue with all the actors concerned at european, national and local level in order to avoid job losses and redundancies. in june 2016, the european parliament called on the commission to boost public procurement in the rail sector through the full use of european funds. this resolution must be carried out! finally, the union must play its role in protecting and defending its industries and jobs in the face of increasingly fierce international competition and, in particular, the emergence of large groups, notably in china, which benefit from massive public subsidies. the european union must no longer be the idiot of the global village and must define a more strategic and offensive vision of industrial policy: there is urgency, as the alstom and caterpillar cases remind us!
in writing. ‒ in september, the us construction equipment manufacturer caterpillar announced its intention to close its only belgian plant in gosselies, resulting in the loss of 2 200 jobs in the already disaster-stricken charleroi area. alstom has announced the closure of its belfort site, which specialises in the construction of railway equipment. the company explained its decision by the decline in orders from sncf, which preferred bombardier as the supplier for the ters. the french government has announced a solution to maintain employment in belfort by ordering new tgv trains to run on the intercity network. the majority groups took advantage of the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy, "without protectionism". the proposals in the resolution promote free trade and demand reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by other powers. no community preference is in sight for the railway, which is a sovereign industry. we want green growth but without massive investment, which is only possible through monetary creation for the benefit of the real economy. social europe is a mirage that even its promoters no longer believe in. i therefore voted against the joint motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i want a genuine long-term european strategy to be put in place so that industry accounts for 20% of gross domestic product, as stated in the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to use trade and competition policy to achieve these objectives while ensuring compliance with public procurement legislation. however, europe cannot substitute itself for the member states in making the reforms for them.
in writing. ‒ the majority groups want to take advantage of the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy 'without protectionism': promotion of free trade on the one hand and demand for reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by the other powers on the other. so, for example, no community preference is in sight for the railway, which is a sovereign industry. i voted against this motion for a resolution which seeks to give new powers to the european commission, an overly integrated approach to industrial policy which should be based on cooperation between the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolutions and abstained in favour of the ecr group resolution. the proposals are not satisfactory, particularly because of the lack of community preference in the railway sector, which is an industry of sovereignty. the alstom affair is the tragic and absurd demonstration of france's failures since maastricht: the dismantling of our heavy industry, blind compliance with the european technocrats who have placed everything on the service economy since the early 2000s. but also, and above all, the alstom plant shutdown demonstrates that economic protectionism, measured and strategic, is an imperative for survival for states immersed in globalisation.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, which aims to re-industrialise the union, will undoubtedly miss its purpose in the glaring absence of any desire for protectionism or community preference in railway matters. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ in september, caterpillar and alstom announced their intention to close their sites in charleroi and belfort, which would result in the loss of several thousand jobs in regions already hit by runaway globalisation. it is in this context that this motion for a resolution is reviving the idea of a common industrial policy in europe. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. the sad platitudes in this text, such as the revival of public and private investment or the strengthening of employee participation in restructuring plans, do not in any way diminish the harmfulness of this report. only a trade policy which respects each other's strategic interests, which makes reciprocal tariff concessions conditional in free trade agreements, accompanied by a return to national currencies to correct the competitiveness gaps in the euro area, will help to protect our industries and our jobs. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the enormous problems facing the european union in reindustrialising itself. the recent cases of alstom and caterpillar are particularly representative of this problem. both companies are forced to move, resulting in the loss of many jobs. the closure of the caterpillar plant in belgium represents the loss of 2000 direct jobs and 4-7000 jobs in subcontracting and the closure of the alstom site in belfort represents the displacement of 400 jobs. the resolution calls on the commission to put in place a genuine european reindustrialisation strategy so that industry accounts for 20% of european gdp. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of a single market in the textile sector. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution aims to draw conclusions from the industrial news that has brought to light the difficulties of alstom and caterpillar and the impact of redundancies in european industry. the resolution calls for greater mobility within the union through improved employability and international recognition of skills, particularly in languages. considering that european industry must move towards economic sectors of the future and advanced technologies, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the need for a european policy of reindustrialisation in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. the closures of these sites, and the many redundancies they have caused, are a terrible reflection of a european industry that is constantly losing momentum. europe urgently needs a genuine reindustrialisation policy to boost jobs, growth and competitiveness in europe. we therefore call on the commission in particular to ensure that a commercial policy is consistent with these objectives in order to guarantee fair competition for our companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there is an urgent need for greater cooperation and convergence between member states in the field of industrial policy. the recent caterpillar and alstom cases show that there is still work to be done to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and re-industrialize our continent. if we are to avoid similar cases from happening again, we need to put in place real structural policies for industry, which will realistically achieve the target of raising the share of industry to 20% of gdp by 2020. the resolution proposes essential measures: to establish coherence between trade policy and competition policy, to encourage research and development, to combat tax evasion, to encourage vocational training and social dialogue. an ambitious industrial policy at european level would also enable member states to protect themselves against unfair competition from third countries.
in writing. ‒ the european industry is in a bad way. the alstom and caterpillar cases attract media attention, but in reality thousands of jobs are disappearing or threatened with disappearance every week in europe. we must do everything we can to stop what appears to be industrial desertification, which is leading to the devitalisation of our territories, the precariousness of employment and the increased vulnerability of our societies. we need to keep the skills, keep the production sites running and organize the response. this requires a relocation of production to europe. this requires a proactive policy of adapting skills and policies to the changes in the new forms of industry of the future. this requires a training system geared to the professions of the future. this is accompanied by a specific funding policy to help our smes grow and by better social dialogue to accompany the change. reindustrialisation also requires the protection of the union's interests and the establishment of trade defence instruments. it is also inconceivable that the commission would grant china market economy status as long as its industry remains subsidised by the state. it is also necessary to impose a carbon adjustment at the borders.
in writing. in september, within a few days, the caterpillar group announced a massive restructuring plan on a global scale resulting in the lay-off of 2,500 employees and putting at risk the jobs of some 4,000 subcontractors at the gosselies site in belgium, and the alstom group announced the transfer of its train production activity from the belfort site to the reichshoffen site. these two events demonstrate the imperative need for coherence between the various policies of the union in order to define a genuine industrial policy. we have been faced for many years with a total failure of economic, industrial and political management. now more than ever europe must pursue a genuine economic and industrial policy. we need to rethink the rules of competition, because we need european champions. and the defence of the european peoples' own interests must be at the heart of any policy of reindustrialisation.
in writing. - i vote against the resolutions. the proposals in the resolution are inconsistent: promotion of free trade on the one hand and demand for reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by the other powers on the other. no community preference is in sight for the railway, which is a sovereign industry. we want green growth but without massive investment, which is only possible through monetary creation for the benefit of the real economy. finally, the social europe is a mirage in which its promoters no longer even believe.
‒ the reindustrialisation of many european economies, the french economy being the foremost, is a necessity. but it is not at european level that we should seek solutions, since it is at european level that the problems have been created. there was an industrial policy in europe. either this policy was national, a sovereign decision, like the french nuclear choice, or it was based on mutually beneficial intergovernmental cooperation to equip the participating countries with new and strategic sectors, such as aeronautics or space. this was before the wto agreements, free trade and widespread dumping, before the single currency that puts germany's european industrial competitors at a disadvantage, before the ban on national or local preference in public procurement, before the dismantling of the public sectors, before the austerity imposed by the stability pact and all its avatars, before the financialisation of the economy favoured by the unhindered free movement of capital, before the ban on subsidies to sectors of the future... in short, this was at a time when the states had not yet entrusted their entire economic policy to the europeanist oligarchy in brussels. yes, they had him in charge of the coal and steel industries. what is the current situation in these two sectors ?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the european industry is experiencing a profound crisis of competitiveness and investment. the closures of sites such as caterpillar and alstom are symptomatic of this industrial depression. the basic problem is the lack of competitiveness of our companies and the lack of will on the part of some managers to create an adequate social and fiscal environment! we need a real long-term european industrial strategy to bring stability to investors at all levels. the european union must also use its trade defence instruments to ensure fair competition internationally and enable our companies to win markets within and outside the european union. the response to the closure of the alstom site in particular is not in artificial controls.
in writing. caterpillar and alstom: two examples of plant closures illustrating the urgency for europe to develop a forward-looking industrial strategy and to play its role of protecting and defending its industries in the face of increasingly tough international competition. i voted in favour of a resolution which sets out the ways in which we can try to find solutions to these difficulties: this involves boosting public investment, redefining european competition rules and encouraging state aid, fighting unfair competition, saying no to china's market economy status, encouraging strategic alliances between companies and partnerships in research and development, reviewing and adopting trade defence instruments, refusing abnormally low offers or where 50% of the profit is made outside the eu, making it compulsory to clean up industrial sites and re-appropriate them by public authorities, developing information, participation and consultation of workers, or telling multinationals to discharge their social responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the closures of the alstom plants in belfort and caterpillar in gosselies are dramatic but reveal the failures of the states and europe to make industrial and strategic choices adapted to global competition and to pursue a visionary industrial policy. in the face of large geographical and economic aggregates such as the united states and china, we must protect our industries but we must also encourage them to reorganise their production chains. we saved alstom, but for how long? the order for 16 tgvs by the sncf should not reassure us, quite the contrary! given that it is already saddled with a colossal debt of 44 billion euros, i feel that we have stripped peter to clothe paul. it is a lie to the workers of the belfort plant who only got a reprieve and a lie to the french who finance the bottomless pit of the sncf. europe and its states must act! we need to redefine our industrial priorities, anticipate the inevitable decline of certain sectors and support the attractiveness of industrial areas. we must offer continuing training for employees and support mobility. finally, we must create industrial champions and support them in their international development.
in writing. ‒ the caterpillar and alstom cases should not be used as an argument for the establishment of a european industrial policy, which is devoid of any protectionism and, in short, very ambiguous. it is not clear whether we should promote free trade or encourage the reciprocal opening up of public procurement in other countries, there is no provision for defending the railway, which is a symbol of sovereignty, and we refuse to give ourselves the means to achieve the green economy. it is hard to believe in a social europe. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european reindustrialisation policy in order to support the employees and subcontractors of the belfort sites for alstom and the gosselies sites for caterpillar. the artificial bailouts in france are only temporary solutions to structural problems such as competitiveness and access to public contracts. however, this resolution marks the starting point for new negotiations leading, i hope, very soon to a genuine european industrial policy. the continent is suffering the full effects of a harsh globalisation and i reiterate my opposition to granting china market economy status until it complies with the rules of competition law. i am glad that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution presenting the european parliament's proposals for a genuine european reindustrialisation policy. in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, it is clear that simple 'doing-it-yourself' is not enough to save these jobs. the european union needs to be more proactive if it is to maintain a strong and innovative industry. a real long-term industrial strategy is therefore urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it wants to give new powers to the european commission, by adopting an overly integrated approach to industrial policy. i believe that europe's industrial policy should be based on cooperation between the member states and the commission. the
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which affirms the need for a european policy of reindustrialisation, particularly in view of the closure of the caterpillar site in belgium (2500 redundancies) and the threats to alstom's site in belfort (400 jobs). sustainable solutions must be found to support the employees and subcontractors affected by these restructurings. a european policy of reindustrialisation requires reciprocity for public procurement at international level.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution presented to us on the closure of the alstom industrial sites in belfort and caterpillar in charleroi considered the closure of these sites as a fait accompli. i then tabled an amendment to amend this paragraph and replace it with: 'strongly condemns these unacceptable closures, restructuring plans and strategic economic decisions by multinational companies, leaving thousands of workers without jobs; other unfortunately, this amendment was not adopted by a close majority, as it was rejected by 315 votes to 314 with 44 abstentions. however, by accepting the closure of these industrial sites a red line was crossed, which is why i refused to support this text which was in fact subjected to the logic of money at the expense of our industrial tool. one thing must be said. these closures are purely guided by financial logic and do not take into account the multiple challenges that we face with the ecological transition. that is why we must invest heavily in our production capacity, to revive the economy and create quality jobs on european soil.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. the majority groups want to take advantage of the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy, 'without protectionism'. the proposals in the resolution are inconsistent: promotion of free trade on the one hand and demand for reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by the other powers on the other. no community preference is in sight for the railway, which is a sovereign industry. we want green growth but without massive investment, which is only possible through monetary creation for the benefit of the real economy. finally, the social europe is a mirage in which its promoters no longer even believe.
in writing. ‒ the majority groups want to use the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy, "without protectionism". the joint resolution has several axes: green economy, renewal of trade defence instruments, revival of public and private investment and increased participation of employees in restructuring plans. the proposals in the resolution are, in my view, incoherent: promotion of free trade on the one hand and demand for reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by the other powers on the other, no community preference for the railway, which is an industry of sovereignty. we want green growth but without massive investment; only possible through monetary creation for the benefit of the real economy. finally, the social europe is a mirage in which even its most ardent supporters no longer believe. i therefore voted against these resolutions, with the exception of the ecr group resolution, on which i abstained.
in writing. ‒ following the recent announcements of the closure of the caterpillar plant in gosselies (belgium) and of alstom's site in belfort, the european parliament had to react officially. this is what this comprehensive and balanced resolution proposes, calling in particular for the revival of public investment to re-industrialize the union, while stressing the negative impact of austerity policies in this respect. the text stresses the extent to which the union would suffer in terms of loss of know-how and technologies and calls on the union and the member states to combat unfair competition more effectively by revising the european trade defence instruments. the resolution also warned that as things stand, china cannot be recognised as a market economy. the text also proposes ambitious environmental and social measures, notably in the field of pollution abatement and sales to businesses, and the creation of a florange law at european level. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this text. in september 2016, two major industrial groups announced the closure of their factories in europe, notably in france and belgium, causing the layoff of thousands of employees and putting at least as many indirect jobs at risk. the centrist and left-wing meps, including the french, want to take advantage of the plight of french and belgian employees and the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy 'without protectionism'. these members were so concerned about the desire to speak with one voice, the so-called 'european voice', that they presented us with an incoherent and unacceptable motion for a resolution. it does not take account of the economic sovereignty of the member states and will not solve the problems of the industrial sector in europe, which above all needs massive investment, which can only be achieved by monetary creation for the benefit of the real economy.
in writing. ‒ the successive decisions by the management of alstom and caterpillar to close sites and cut jobs in france and belgium are emblematic of the crisis facing european industry. in addition to the specificities of each country, the european industry is under pressure from a triple dumping: social, fiscal and environmental. many actors benefit from europe's ideological attitude, which imposes on itself a liberalism that no other great power respects. the issue is our public procurement open to international competition without limitation. the commission is prepared to grant china market economy status, removing even more protection from its exports and, ultimately, from its social dumping. finally, as we vote this week on the ratification of the paris agreement, it should also be remembered that if european industry is at a disadvantage vis-à-vis its asian competitors, it is also because it is trying to comply with environmental legislation that is absolutely crucial for the energy transition. the 'carbon adjustment at borders' mechanism is therefore urgently needed. i voted for this resolution which recalls these ambitions.
in writing. ‒ the majority groups want to use the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy, "without protectionism". the joint resolution has several axes: green economy, renewal of trade defence instruments, revival of public and private investment and increased participation of employees in restructuring plans. the proposals in the resolution are, in my view, incoherent: promotion of free trade on the one hand and demand for reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by the other powers on the other, no community preference for the railway, which is an industry of sovereignty. we want green growth but without massive investment; only possible through monetary creation for the benefit of the real economy. finally, the social europe is a mirage in which even its most ardent supporters no longer believe. i therefore voted against these resolutions, with the exception of the ecr group resolution, on which i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the proposals in the resolution are inconsistent: promotion of free trade on the one hand and demand for reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by the other powers. no community preference is in sight for the railway, which is a sovereign industry. we want green growth but without massive investment, which is only possible through monetary creation for the benefit of the real economy. finally, the social europe is a mirage in which its promoters no longer even believe. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the reindustrialisation of europe in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases. at european level, the challenge is above all the requirement of reciprocity in the opening up of public procurement, which our businesses need. in addition to its social and environmental constraints, europe is opening up its public procurement markets to subsidised foreign companies. other countries close their markets or impose conditions on local production. we therefore call for reciprocity in market access, the establishment of a border adjustment mechanism and anti-dumping measures of the same type as those we have obtained against china in respect of steel.
in writing. ‒ on 2 september 2016, the us construction equipment manufacturer caterpillar announced its intention to close its only belgian plant in gosselies, resulting in the loss of 2,200 jobs (6,000 if subcontractors are included) in the already disaster-stricken charleroi area. the company alstom announced on 12 september the closure of its belfort site, which specialises in the construction of railway equipment. the company explained its decision by the decline in orders from sncf, which preferred bombardier as the supplier for the ters. on 4 october, the french government announced a solution to maintain employment in belfort by ordering new tgv trains to run on the intercity network. the majority groups want to take advantage of the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy, 'without protectionism'. their proposals are incoherent and based on the absurd idea that it would be a good thing to transfer industrial policy to the commission as part of ever deeper integration. i believe that only sovereign and democratic states are capable of defining an effective industrial policy which respects the interests of their people and the environment. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ in view of the difficulties faced by european companies, such as recently caterpillar or alstom, establishing a european reindustrialisation policy is a priority. it is in this spirit that i voted for this text. too often, when large firms in difficulty are 'saved', they are the subject of often artificial recovery plans. the case of alstom in france is a case in point. the question must therefore be considered more globally: how can we tackle the structural challenges that are currently holding back the economic growth of our continent? global competition is fierce, and no growth will be possible without trade defence and the promotion of harmonised rules in globalisation. today, europe remains open to foreign players. this openness will only continue to be beneficial if, in return, we ensure that we obtain the same development opportunities beyond our borders. but i am saying this clearly: until certain national governments, like the socialist executive in france, become aware of the need to reduce the administrative burden, the social and employer burdens on our companies, and to put in place a clear strategy for foreign trade, no industrial policy worthy of the name will be effective in france and in europe.
in writing. ‒ today, in response to the announcements of the closure of caterpillar's plants in belgium and alstom's in france, the european parliament adopted, on the initiative of the socialist and democratic group, a resolution calling for a genuine re-industrialisation strategy for europe. i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains a number of concrete elements to revive european industry in the face of unfair foreign competition, to defend jobs better and finally to call for a reorientation of the austerity policies that undermine public investment. the resolution also sends a strong message to punish multinationals, such as caterpillar, which favour blind financial profitability at the expense of an industrial approach. the european parliament, for example, thanks to the commitment of the socialists, has voted in favour of sanctions for companies that practice redundancies. i also welcome the fact that the resolution calls for the florange law, adopted in france, to be transposed at european level, to oblige multinationals to look for a buyer in advance in the event of the closure of an industrial site. the commission must now make proposals to the european parliament to revitalize the european industrial fabric which is a vital pillar of our economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution, initiated by the socialists and democrats, which stresses the urgent need to define a european policy for reindustrialisation. the announced redundancies at caterpillar and alstom demonstrate the pressures on european industry, due to unfair global competition and unacceptable financial practices. the resolution calls on the commission to adjust the union's trade policy to combat anti-competitive practices. it also calls for a redefinition of competition law rules, in particular to ensure that relevant markets are defined at global level. furthermore, the resolution urges contracting authorities to base their decisions on the award of public contracts on the principle of the most economically advantageous tender. in particular, it stresses the need for effective social dialogue in the event of restructuring and the application of strict rules to combat redundancies without real economic grounds. finally, the more efficient use of european funds, the intensification and rationalisation of research and development efforts, the targeting of the regions most affected by deindustrialisation and the consideration of training, health and working conditions are given priority.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which recalls the urgency and need for the european union to adopt a policy of reindustrialisation, particularly in the light of the closure of caterpillar in belgium and alstom in france. europe needs a forward-looking industrial strategy to improve the conditions under which businesses operate, to make better use of existing european financial instruments and, above all, to protect workers. european industry needs a stable social and fiscal environment that will be conducive to investment and thus to competitiveness. the european reindustrialisation strategy must be accompanied by a trade policy with modernised trade defence instruments that are more efficient, faster and more accessible, especially to smes. the european union must be the guarantor of fair competition for our industries. i supported this resolution because it also recalls the importance of sustained social dialogue based on mutual trust in order to find consensual solutions and to develop common perspectives in the management of restructuring processes. europe must support european workers while being a driving force for reindustrialisation.
in writing. ‒ the sudden announcement of the closure of alstom's plants in france and caterpillar's in belgium, which were disastrous for the employees of these plants and the territories, led the european parliament to react. i commend the work of my colleagues marie arena and edouard martin on this initiative. with this vote we reaffirm our desire to save industries and jobs in the european union by implementing the principle of sanctions against companies that practice redundancies on the market with the reimbursement of public aid. we also call for the adoption at european level of a 'florange law', to oblige multinationals that abandon sites to look for a buyer. we propose a 'carbon adjustment at the border' to combat unfair competition, particularly from countries with high carbon production facilities. we call for the revival of public investment in europe and the exit from austerity policies. this new european industrial policy must also be accompanied by social and fiscal harmonization between member states to avoid any dumping situation.
in writing. ‒ the us construction equipment manufacturer caterpillar announced on 2 september this year its intention to close its only belgian plant, in gosselies, resulting in the loss of 2 200 jobs (6 000 if subcontractors are included) in the already disaster-stricken region of charleroi. on 12 september alstom announced the closure of its belfort site, which specialises in the construction of railway equipment. the company explained its decision by the decline in orders from sncf, which preferred bombardier as the supplier for the ters. the majority groups want to take advantage of the media coverage of these cases to revive the idea of a european industrial policy, 'without protectionism'. the joint resolution has several axes: green economy, renewal of trade defence instruments, revival of public and private investment, increased participation of employees in restructuring plans. the proposals in the resolution are inconsistent: promotion of free trade on the one hand and demand for reciprocity and the opening up of public procurement by the other powers. no community preference is in sight for the railway, which is a sovereign industry. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ dividends to caterpillar shareholders increased by more than 4% between 2015 and 2016 and those to alstom shareholders by 27%. in both cases, no reduction is foreseen. however, these multinationals with substantial profits have just announced massive redundancies in europe, particularly in france and belgium, and other similarly massive layoffs are planned in several member states. the reason is well known: these companies are moving. the resolution adopted by the european parliament makes this observation and deplores it. it calls for increased public and private investment in european industry, calls for wage increases to stimulate demand, advocates a european trade policy that avoids relocations, says tax evasion must be tackled and supports the implementation of joint european industrial projects. i regret, however, that the right wing has in particular caused our amendment to be rejected, which calls for the recovery of all the resources devoted to supporting enterprises, particularly in the form of subsidies and tax benefits, when a company decides to relocate or close its production sites. for these reasons i abstained.
madam president, the city of aleppo has been divided in two for four years and is in the news, but unfortunately it is always one-way. every day in east aleppo, several hospitals are destroyed. the last doctor in aleppo has been killed, for the 20th time, and the bakeries are the main target of the syrian air force. on the other hand, the shells that are constantly falling on west aleppo - which is populated, i remind you, by more than 1.5 million inhabitants, compared to 200,000 people in the east - fall into general indifference. the little arman (12 years old), the young singer zila and the national swimming champion mireille were all killed by these shells in the name of american-style democracy. would a life be less valuable in the east or the west, depending on whether one is on the right or the wrong side of the front line? in recent weeks, the syrian arab army seems to be able to liberate east aleppo from the grip of islamist terrorist groups. it is not too late to change our position and join those who are really fighting the jihadist terror every day. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr preda, i thought the debate was a little more important than your question, which i think is completely stupid and inappropriate. i shall therefore not be answering it, and i find it rather offensive in view of the situation and the subject we are dealing with today.
madam president, mr weber was concerned this morning about syria. he spoke out against russia and talked about its intervention in syria on behalf of the americans. he was not speaking for the french or the more nuanced italians in his group, but for the german members of parliament who were subservient to the interests of the united states. he was not speaking on behalf of the syrian people and the christians of aleppo, surrounded by al qaeda, and now being liberated by the legitimate forces of syria, the only country that is legally intervening in that country. let him listen to the bishop of aleppo, who calls himself a christian socialist. mr weber, have you been concerned about the sanctions against syria, which have increased the price of wheat by 300% and the price of rice by 650%, and the health system destroyed by these sanctions? the christians in the east will remind you that aleppo, besieged by daesh and al qaeda in the east, must be liberated, as syria and its allies are doing.
mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in syria is dramatic in aleppo, but also in other parts of the country. my intention here is not, as some do, to take a hemiplegic look at history, to see only the crimes of some and not those of others. no crime against civilians is excusable, no matter where it comes from, but who can seriously claim that the bombing of some is less destructive than that of others? to stop these crimes, we must begin by making a proper diagnosis. what has happened in syria since 2011? the truth is that syria is a major front for sunni jihad. it is radical sunni islam that is destroying this country, and it is doing so not only with the support of the sunni monarchies of the gulf, but also because of our own foreign policy mistakes. we are making the same mistake in syria as we did in libya. we do not want to see that letting the sunni jihad destroy this authoritarian regime is letting it destroy the nation-state and that without the nation-state, there is only chaos. the great paradox of the western world is that its policy in the middle east supports the enemy it claims to be fighting in europe, and which is attacking it with terrorism. combating islamic terrorism involves forming a grand coalition of civilizations, which involves working with people who don't share our values or our methods. realpolitik is not a defeat, ladies and gentlemen, it is a victory of the intellect, the only one that can produce the defeat of islamic totalitarianism.
mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the city of aleppo is hell today, hell on earth. hospitals, schools, refugee camps, women, men, children, nothing and no one is spared from the deluge of fire that the regime is pouring into this city. in the face of such violence and massacres, we must regrettably say again that the armed solution is a pipe dream. between the pro-assad forces, the rebel movements, the al-qaeda affiliated groups like al-nusra front, the kurds, daesh or the barely veiled presence of the iranians and hezbollah militias, who can still believe that a unilateral solution is possible? the urgent need now is to bring humanitarian support to aleppo. mrs federica mogherini has decided to propose the mobilisation of eur 25 million. secondly, the prospect is to get out of the sterile head-to-head between the united states and russia. europe has a role to play in this respect: we have been the driving force behind the restoration of relations with iran, so we are using this channel of discussion to put pressure on a key player on the syrian terrain.
mr president, as everyone has said, this is an absolutely unprecedented humanitarian tragedy taking place in aleppo, for the hundreds of thousands of people living under bombs, throughout the country, for the millions of displaced people, for the millions of hungry people, it is hell, sometimes, as gilles pargneaux also said, for the refugees fleeing syria. this situation cannot last. i don't think the american-russian one-on-one is going to be able to hold the key to all of this. we've seen that putin's role is in strategy. he basically wants to defeat the regime, to advance on the ground before any peace negotiations. we cannot allow that to happen. that is why i say to you that there is one power that we do not hear enough about, and that is not in the game, and that is europe. let us decide to exist, let us decide to speak with one voice! all this is happening right on our doorstep. it is now up to us to act, to have a vision, to have a perspective, to speak with all the regional powers, namely turkey, iran, saudi arabia, to try, finally, to find a political solution to this major crisis.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the colombian people, although by a small majority, rejected the agreement between the government and the farc, which means that this people has suffered the most barbaric and ignoble atrocities of the farc. this marxist group, like other marxist terrorist organizations, finds in this house scandalous and unacceptable support. the european union must now above all respect the choice of the colombian people. the farc must therefore be kept on the list of terrorist organisations.
mr president, an agreement was negotiated and signed under the auspices of cuba, one of the last communist dictatorships in the world, an agreement which aims to whitewash a narco-terrorist organisation and to absolve hundreds of criminals with unacceptable leniency. some would have liked the colombians to approve this agreement, but their naivety borders on blindness. it was not the peace of the brave, but a colombian munich that they called their vows. the colombian people, proud and brave, expressing themselves sovereignly and freely, despite propaganda that is quick to excuse terrorists when they are marxists, did not accept the unacceptable. colombian president santos is right when he says that all colombians want peace, but not at any price. it was not peace that was lost in colombia on sunday, but the honour of the colombian people that won, an honour which refuses the cowardly relief of trampling on the memory of the 260 000 murdered, the 45 000 missing and the 7 million displaced by the farc's terrorist acts. an acceptable agreement is one that does not tarnish the memory of the victims.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are talking again about the situation in the democratic republic of the congo, a country which has been through what are called 'low-level' conflicts, which have killed several million people, and which is one of the poorest countries in the world, although its subsoil is rich in natural resources, particularly in minerals. it would be good to ask who is financing the armed groups and to defend whose interests. joseph kabila's term expires in december, and elections were due to be held in november. mr kabila announced that the election would be postponed indefinitely on the pretext that the electoral register was not updated and that 10 million young congolese would be deprived of their right to vote. for months, civil society and the opposition have been organizing and have been subjected to a brutal repression. the events of late september are a sad symbol of this. it is an understatement to say that human rights are violated in the democratic republic of congo. in this country, as in others in africa, the rulers are clinging to power, and the only question that matters is: how can we help the people of these countries to express their choice freely? the european union has a major responsibility in this area, given its support. everything must be done to ensure that the constitution and the rights, in particular those of the opposition, are respected so that elections can be held in the best possible conditions and within the best possible time, so that the congolese can finally decide their fate.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the great lakes region is the biggest humanitarian disaster, not syria, which we have been talking about. there are several million dead. it is a country i know well, as president of the european cooperation institute. i was the chairman of the most important ngo, and i was placed with the late vice president z'ahidi ngoma, a friend who fought for the democratic transition and represented the democratic opposition during the democratic transition in 2004. he gave his life for his country. so let's talk about democracy, and i would like to remind you of a story that i know well, that i myself was a part of. in the democratic republic of congo, the so-called "rebel" operation was in fact a cover for an invasion organized by the united states, which used laurent-désiré kabila. as he went along, clinton's envoys were signing mine deals, like biden's men are doing in ukraine right now. let's talk about democracy! laurent-désiré kabila, stopped by france and angola, is getting closer to france because he felt that it was the interests of the democratic republic of congo. you, the belgians, and i can give details if necessary, with the permission of the americans, you decided to assassinate him. then, joseph kabila took over from him. he was your man, but concerned with the sovereignty of his country and its independence, he is no longer suitable for you. the drc needs stability, not your interventionism based on changing interests. any further instability in this area is tantamount to a new death sentence for millions of civilians. it is all of sub-saharan africa that will be lost if this region is thrown into chaos again. what africa needs is sovereignty and self-centred development. it needs legitimate governments to care about the people of africa and its development. yes to the sovereign democracy of a broad democratic coalition with joseph kabila for the future of this region where western interventionism has killed 4 to 5 million africans in the great lakes region. what africans need is to be masters in their own homes.
madam president, a woman's body belongs to no one but herself. this is not an ideological battlefield, nor is it a national issue. to deny a woman the right to control her own body is a violation of her fundamental rights and an act of extreme violence against her. it is making her the victim of intolerable discrimination. on the contrary, to defend the right to safe and legal abortion is to protect the life, health and dignity of women. the proposed anti-liberty and backward legislation which threatens to ban abortion altogether in poland is a disgrace. it is a shame to treat women who choose to have abortions as criminals and to send them to prison, even in the most extreme cases of rape or incest. it is a disgrace to the european union. it cannot remain credible to the rest of the world as long as it continues to turn a blind eye to the way women's rights are being trampled on within its own borders. in the name of the fundamental principle of equality between women and men, in support of polish women who are fighting for their rights and in order to protect all european women equally, the right to abortion must finally be recognised and guaranteed as a fundamental right by the european union.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the fight against global warming is urgent. if nothing is done, africa will only be able to meet 13 percent of its food needs by 2050. this will cause a migration invasion far greater than any we have known. the cop22 in marrakech will be an apparent success. 62 countries, representing 51% of global greenhouse gas emissions, have already ratified the agreement signed in paris in 2015 at cop21. but the european union is going to enter a market of dupes. it has agreed to reduce its harmful emissions by 40%, whereas the united states has only agreed to reduce them by 28% and china has agreed to consider reducing them only after 2030. i therefore denounce the irresponsibility of the union, which is going to accelerate the deindustrialization of europe by unilaterally imposing constraints which will not affect its main economic competitors.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. as rapporteur for the european parliament last year, in the resolution we adopted at cop21, i would like to commend you for the work you did and the work we did with you last year in paris to reach this historic agreement. i would also like to commend you for the work you have done over the last ten months to ratify this agreement, which we formalised yesterday in plenary. at the same time, commissioner, we must continue and, together in marrakesh, we shall, i believe, tackle a number of points which i consider essential. firstly, the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, for example by setting a minimum price for a tonne of carbon or reforming the european carbon trading system, but also the establishment of a genuine circular economy and the promotion of renewable energies or the abolition of subsidies to the fossil fuel sector which will eventually lead to the abandonment of fossil fuels and, finally, also the intensification of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport and agriculture sectors. finally, as claude turmes says, we must discuss our cooperation on renewable energy with africa and all that we have to do with africa. we are working with jean-louis borloo, but i think this is also a subject we need to tackle together. yes, marrakech must be the cop of the action.
the s&d group is calling for a review of the transparency register, which is a very important step towards the creation of a european union. i would like to say that the proposals that have been made are clearly going in the right direction, in particular with the inclusion, at least partial, of the council in the system or with the exclusion of local and regional authorities which represent the public interests. however, several points should be noted. they will no doubt be discussed in the very near future. as regards the first point, i would say that it is a narrow definition of lobbying, which will have to meet three conditions: interaction, the promotion of interests and the desire to influence the decision-making process. we must therefore have a clear idea of who and how the verification of these three criteria is carried out. the second point is that two additional decisions must be taken in addition to the institutional agreement which is now being discussed. one to manage the administrative structure and the other, if i understand correctly, to deal with budgetary aspects. when does the commission intend to present them? the third and not least point is the obligation imposed on members of the european parliament to meet only with registered lobbies. even if this is not necessary in the publication of appointments, some members will doubtless ask whether it is consistent with their freedom of mandate, which is a principle in the treaties and which an interinstitutional agreement cannot abolish. again, this is a slippery subject which we shall have occasion to discuss. what i do take away from the objectives, however, is that we need a system that is readable, easily accessible to all citizens, and that does not fuel more mistrust than it does now. it should also be noted that this transparency also applies to other types of issues: conflict of interest rules and codes of conduct. mr president, the european parliament is prepared to negotiate as openly as possible, and we hope that the council will do the same when it enters into dialogue, as soon as possible, of course.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, i would first like to welcome the relevance of the own-initiative report by mrs christel schaldemose. i would like to return to the prohibition of bisphenol a in all materials in contact with food. since 2009, i have been alerting the european commission to the dangers of this chemical compound used in reusable bottles, cans, tin cans, cash registers, and suspected of increasing the risk of early puberty in young girls, prostate and breast cancers. this endocrine disruptor should be banned from all consumer products, not just baby bottles. that is the message of amendment no 9 which we are tabled and i sincerely hope that it will be adopted tomorrow in the plenary. pending a reassessment of the risks of bisphenol a by efsa, announced for 2017-2018, the precautionary principle must prevail and our europe must above all be a europe that protects all our citizens.
in writing. this report is a clear signal to the european commission and to consumers! chemicals in materials intended to come into contact with food, such as packaging, cookware, dishware, etc., can endanger human health or significantly alter the composition of products consumed, and it is essential that the european commission address this issue. it is important to harmonise at european level the different measures taken by the member states, but also to reflect on the gaps in the existing legislation. we must work towards better legislation on this matter, legislation which aims to inform and protect the citizen properly. finally, i would like to raise the question of the prohibition of bisphenol a (bpa) in all materials intended to come into contact with food. bpa is a chemical that is endocrine disrupting and toxic to the reproductive organs. it is found in many everyday products. it is important that this ban be made at european level in order to protect all european citizens!
in writing. regulation 1935/2004 of 27 october 2004 covers all materials coming into contact with food at all stages of the production and consumption chain: containers, packaging, cutlery, etc. it limits the alteration of the composition, taste or texture of food. in its first annex, the regulation lists 17 materials which may be the subject of specific european or national regulations. at present, only four of them are subject to european regulation. the first objective of the draft report is therefore to harmonise european regulations for all these materials. the draft report also aims to take account of the following elements in the above regulation: interference with regulation 1907/2006 on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemical substances; interactions between and the reaction introduction of complementary substances. other elements are positive, such as the protection of pregnant women or technical measures on bisphenol. for all these reasons, i supported this far-sighted text on the action of the commission and the european food safety authority.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report on the monitoring of the application of union law follows the canon of previous ones: the same old riddles. it called on the commission to make compliance with eu law a real political priority. this parliament and the commission are always quick to take the role of whipping fathers to member states which behave like bad pupils in the face of the brussels doxa. i call on the commission to lead by example and to make the conformity of its acts with the treaties a real priority, starting with the application and respect of the principle of subsidiarity as laid down in article 5 of the treaty on european union. the commission does not recognise this and does not respect the obligation to state reasons for draft legislative acts laid down in protocol no 2. the member states, in their 1992 edinburgh declaration, nevertheless affirmed that the european union is based on subsidiarity, and even enshrined it as a fundamental principle. the report also dares to claim that unjustified euroscepticism is due to the unnecessary measures 'taken by the member states in the application of union legislation'. so you're not responsible for anything? irresponsible for the mass unemployment and job destruction throughout europe. irresponsible for the flood of migration which you have organized and which you are imposing on people who can no longer and do not want to take it, as the hungarian referendum has shown us. your policies are irresponsible. you do not need anyone to provoke the people's discontent and anger, but to teach them moral lessons, you are always the first, like the luxembourg foreign minister, who called for hungary to be excluded because it does not respect the union's values. i said, "what about luxleaks?" there is a principle here, which is the principle of loyal cooperation, which also means that you must not cheat your little comrades. you dare everything and that's what you're known for.
madam president, the 2014 report on monitoring the application of union law is written in diplomatic terms. it is, however, severe for the brussels commission. he points out, for example, the favouritism or cowardice shown by the commission towards germany. it rarely initiates infringement proceedings against mrs merkel's country, despite it being one of the three eu countries that receive the most complaints. the commission's report is scary: unrealistic deadlines imposed on the member states to implement european directives and regulations; lack of transparency in all areas, not just in the negotiation of the tafta; the indexing of the draft code of administrative procedure, which would have ensured greater protection for the administrated; and finally, unfortunately, treaty violation, of which she is officially the guardian. the commission's attitude is summed up in one word: 'contempt' - contempt for the law, contempt for the european parliament, contempt for the states and, finally, contempt for the citizens, who will remember this when they vote.
in writing. the issue of respect for human rights and democratic principles in rwanda is fundamental for rwanda but also for the countries of the region. it should be noted that rwanda has made considerable progress in recent years in terms of good governance, economic development and women's participation in political life. the european union must nevertheless continue to support rwanda in its efforts, including by ensuring the promotion and respect of the rule of law. the case of ms victoire ingabire is complex and the legal proceedings are still ongoing. we must therefore ensure that procedures are followed and human rights are respected.
author. mr president, we are again referring to the dramatic situation in sudan. this resolution addresses a wide range of human rights violations in that country: the continuing bombing of civilian populations, including with chemical weapons; the continuing repression of all opponents; the violation of freedom of thought, conscience and religion, whatever the religion concerned; violence against women; the threats against migrants, such as those unfortunate eritreans arrested and sent directly back to their country, at the risk of their lives, on behalf of the european union; finally, the fact that the mandate of the international criminal court against mr al-bashir is constantly being flouted. so i wonder what the european union was thinking when it decided to hold a conference on migration routes and the horn of africa in khartoum in october 2014, with representatives from all the member states? the council, all the member states and the commission have thus given mr al-bashir the international recognition he craves, rendering obsolete any support, or even a certain disdain, for the very difficult work of the international criminal court.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a new tragedy is threatening the world. the recent suspicions of the use of chemical weapons by the khartoum regime show that the sudanese regime is a rogue state, a leading breeder of radical islamism. i am glad to see the unanimity of my colleagues here. from al-tourabi to al-bashir, this regime has been known for its genocidal actions against the christian and animist populations, as well as against the minorities of darfur. whatever happens to the chemical weapons investigations, the regime which was, it should be remembered, one of the safe havens of bin laden and one of the most radical islamist groups must be banished from civilized nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report promoting accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable growth and long-term investment. a thorough reform of the process of developing and approving accounting standards is fundamental to ensuring transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ ifrs 9 applies to financial instruments and is intended to address the difficulties of ias 39 (international accounting standards), which is the current standard. the big change is mainly due to the concept of fair value , which allows the assets and liabilities of large enterprises to be valued at their market value or, failing that, at their value calculated by the discounted sum of the expected income streams from their use. the resolution drafted by the econ committee calls on european and international financial regulators to produce studies on the impact of ifrs 9 standards on the banking, financial and insurance sectors. the proposal raises concerns about the lag between the entry into force dates of ifrs 9 and the new accounting standards for insurance products, ifrs 17. this could lead to serious inconsistencies for companies using these two types of products. i voted in favour of this essentially technical proposal, which follows the very low feedback the european parliament receives from regulators and the european commission on requests for impact assessments of ifrs 9.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that ifrs 9 is one of the necessary responses of the iasb to the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) aims to develop a set of accounting standards that are applicable worldwide, and thus to create a common language for financial reporting worldwide. these standards are called international financial reporting standards (ifrs). since 2005, the ias regulation requires eu listed companies to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards. i support this technical resolution proposal, which mainly calls on international financial and banking regulators to make available studies on the impact of ifrs9 accounting standards (for financial products) on the banking, financial and insurance sectors.
in writing. ‒ since 2005, the ias regulation requires eu listed companies to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards. ifrs 9 is the standard that applies to financial instruments and is intended to address the difficulties of ias 39 (international accounting standards), which is the current standard. ifrs9 therefore introduces changes in the methods for calculating 'fair value', but there is very little impact analysis of these new standards. the resolution here calls on financial regulators to produce studies on the impact of ifrs9 standards on the banking, financial and insurance sectors. in addition, the proposal addresses concerns about the delay in the entry into force of ifrs9 and the new insurance product standards (ifrs17). it is therefore a very technical issue, following the limited feedback received from regulators and the european commission on the impact assessment requests. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the international accounting standards board is to develop a set of accounting standards that are applicable worldwide, and thus to create a common language for financial reporting worldwide. these standards are called the international financial reporting standards. the committee on economic and monetary affairs is calling on european and international financial regulators to produce studies on the impact of ifrs 9 standards on the banking, financial and insurance sectors. the report calls in particular for a detailed study of the impact of the capital standards for long-term investment positions. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the establishment of international financial reporting standards (ifrs 9). ifrs 9 defines the accounting treatment of financial instruments and covers a very large part of the balance sheet of banking institutions. the resolution proposes that the european parliament give its approval to the adoption of the new ifrs 9 standards, but points out the remaining shortcomings in their transposition. i think that this resolution is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. this resolution on the international financial reporting standards ifrs 9 allows the european parliament to express its concerns about the uncertainty surrounding the impact of the entry into force of these new international accounting standards. it is necessary to support the transition from the old ias 39 standards, which are considered to have accelerated the 2008 financial crisis, to better standards. according to the european auditors, including the financial reporting advisory group for europe (efrag), which was set up by the european commission specifically to assess ifrs standards, ifrs 9 is the best standard we need to adopt. without calling into question the application of ifrs 9 from 1 january 2018, i supported this resolution which calls primarily on the commission and efrag to carry out impact assessments of the entry into force of these new accounting standards, in order to be able to take the necessary measures to ensure a fair and efficient transition, as well as one conducive to financial stability and growth.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this is a largely technical proposal which follows the very low feedback the european parliament receives from regulators and the european commission on requests for ifrs9 impact assessments.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is intended to make a mainly technical contribution to the harmonisation of financial reporting standards, and in particular to their impact in the sectors concerned. it is necessary to bring coherence to the financial practices of companies using these new standards, particularly on the subject of fair value, and to avoid as far as possible any lag in the replacement process. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague roberto gualtieri on the replacement of the current accounting standard, ias 39, by ifrs 9. the aim of this change in standard is to adopt a new approach in the assessment of banks' accounting rules. in practical terms, this will lead financial institutions and companies to take more account of economic reality and the obligation to provide the most accurate financial information possible. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution both to welcome the objective of creating this standard in response to the financial crisis and its impact on the banking sector and to ask the commission to monitor its deployment in the union closely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical resolution because it mainly asks international financial and banking regulators to make available studies on the impact of ifrs9 accounting standards (for financial products) on the banking, financial and insurance sectors.
in writing. ‒ the econ committee's draft resolution calls on european and international financial regulators to produce studies on the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking, financial and insurance sectors. in particular, a study of the implications for banks' capital requirements and long-term investment positions is requested. finally, the proposal raises concerns about the lag between the entry into force dates of ifrs 9 and the new accounting standards for insurance products, ifrs 17. this could lead to serious inconsistencies for companies using these two types of products. this is therefore a largely technical proposal, which follows the very low feedback the european parliament receives from regulators and the european commission on requests for ifrs9 impact assessments. so i supported the proposal.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it follows the development of a set of accounting standards applicable worldwide, the international financial reporting standards (ifrs). the standard in question, ifrs 9, applies to financial instruments and changes the concept of fair value. the text asks european and international financial regulators to produce studies on the impact of ifrs 9 standards on the banking, financial and insurance sectors, which we welcome. in the same vein, it denounces the lag in the entry into force dates of ifrs 9 and ifrs 17 (on insurance products). this could lead to serious inconsistencies.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the international accounting standards board (iasb) published the final version of ifrs 9 - financial instruments. ifrs are international financial reporting standards designed to standardise the presentation of accounting data exchanged internationally. they are thus intended to enable investors to determine the financial position of a company. this new standard replaces ias 39 - financial instruments: accounting and measurement, with the aim of avoiding further financial crises such as the one in 2008. the report makes some criticisms about the complexity of the new standard and the lag between the entry into force of ifrs 9 and the future standard on insurance contracts (ifrs 17). i am afraid that these new financial standards, which are based on the anglo-saxon accounting model and are drawn up without democratic control, will not change the harmful financialisation of the economy. to think that crises depend on an accounting standard is the height of ridicule. i shall abstain on this text, however, because i am uncomfortable with some of the additional information requirements which will now be imposed on banks.
in writing. ‒ the econ committee's draft resolution calls on european and international financial regulators to produce studies on the impact of ifrs 9 standards on the banking, financial and insurance sectors. in particular, a study of the implications for banks' capital requirements and long-term investment positions is requested. finally, the proposal raises concerns about the lag between the entry into force dates of ifrs 9 and the new accounting standards for insurance products, ifrs 17. this could lead to serious inconsistencies for companies using these two types of products. this is therefore a largely technical proposal, which follows the very low feedback the european parliament receives from regulators and the european commission on requests for ifrs9 impact assessments. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this is a largely technical proposal which follows the very low feedback the european parliament receives from regulators and the european commission on requests for ifrs9 impact assessments. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the european transposition of ifrs 9, which is an international financial reporting standard. this new standard will replace the current standard, ias 39. it will serve to define the accounting treatment of financial instruments and will therefore cover a large part of the balance sheet of banking institutions which will have to review the way in which all their financial assets are classified and valued in accounting terms, and to develop their information systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical resolution, which follows the publication in july 2014 by the international accounting standards institution of a new standard to simplify the accounting of financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on ifrs 9, which defines the accounting treatment of financial instruments. these international financial reporting standards have a direct impact on european banking institutions. the implementation of the new model will probably require a review of the process of organisation, information collection and system feeding for many european banks. the resolution stresses the need to better understand and study the effects of this standard on the financial sector as a whole, and calls on the commission and the ecb, in particular, to prepare an impact assessment of the implementation of this standard by the end of 2019. i supported this report which urges the commission to ensure that this international standard is in the service of long-term investment in the union.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) aims to develop a set of accounting standards that are applicable worldwide, and thus create a common language for financial reporting worldwide. since 2005, the ias regulation requires eu listed companies to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with these standards. ifrs 9 applies to financial instruments and is intended to address the challenges of ias 39, which is the current standard. the big change is mainly due to the concept of 'fair value', which allows the assets and liabilities of large enterprises to be valued at their market value or, failing that, at their value calculated by the discounted sum of the revenue streams expected from their use. this accounting standard is in contrast to the 'historic cost' valuation standard, which values assets and liabilities at the date of purchase on the markets. but this 'fair value' has also been blamed for a large part of the 2007 crisis, because of its very powerful procyclical impact on the banking and financial system. i voted for this essentially technical proposal.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, we demand an immediate cessation of hostilities and indiscriminate bombing of civilians, to ensure unhindered delivery of humanitarian aid to all those in need and the resumption of political negotiations with the aim of ending the war, in accordance with security council resolution 2254.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in syria, which was initiated by the alde group and supported by almost all the political groups in parliament. the current situation in aleppo demonstrates that diplomacy has failed and that the international community lacks the tools to enforce existing agreements. it is necessary to establish a no-fly zone over aleppo and to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid and relief to the wounded.
in writing. ‒ the resolutions presented amount to half-hearted support for forces opposed to the forces loyal to the internationally recognized syrian government and implicit support for jihadist groups on syrian soil. i voted against these outrageous motions for resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this totally unfavourable resolution which in reality implicitly supports the jihadist groups present on syrian soil. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and to the establishment of a common foreign and security policy.
in writing. ‒ parliament should not interfere in syria's internal affairs, let alone express its systematic opposition to russia's policy through its resolutions. i therefore vote against the joint resolution and against the gue/ngl group resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the european parliament's position on the massacres taking place in syria at the moment. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. considering that the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in syria are unacceptable and are against the values of the union, i supported this resolution.
in writing. i supported this resolution to condemn in the strongest terms the unacceptable attacks in syria on civilians and infrastructure such as hospitals. syria is in a situation of humanitarian tragedy and suffering which europe cannot afford to ignore. too many children are affected by these attacks, especially in the aleppo area. the humanitarian initiatives of the european union are no longer enough. we must express a real political will for a lasting settlement of the conflicts in a country in chaos.
in writing. ‒ syria has become the bloody theatre of a civil war in which the un has stopped counting the dead. in the midst of a game of contradictory alliances at regional and international level, and faced with a tangle of actors, syria is a blood-soaked country where a humanitarian drama is being played out behind closed doors. with this text, the european union wishes to once again alert international public opinion to the intensification of hostilities, in which civilians are targeted, in particular the most vulnerable (women, children, elderly and people in hospital), without respect for all the rules of law. the city of aleppo is particularly targeted and affected. this is unsustainable and it must stop.
in writing. the bombing of a humanitarian convoy on 20 september brought an end to the fragile truce in syria. the city of aleppo is now under the fire of airstrikes of unprecedented violence by the damascus regime and its russian ally. hundreds of thousands of people are trapped. the syrian crisis is the greatest humanitarian tragedy since world war ii. since the conflict began in 2011, nearly 250,000 people have been killed and some 5 million syrians have been forced to flee the country, seeking refuge in lebanon, jordan and turkey. the diplomatic confrontation between the united states and russia does not seem to be able to lead to an attempt at resolution, quite the contrary. in this damaging context, europe must make its voice heard. it must seek the support of regional powers such as turkey, iran and saudi arabia. the union must act and develop a perspective to try to put an end to the drama that is playing out on our doorstep.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on syria. i would have liked to see a paragraph in this text, a line, that emphasizes that civilians in east aleppo are being used as human shields. let the forces that occupy this sector of the city today prevent them from fleeing. that these forces are not formed by opponents of the russian-backed regime in damascus, but by islamists who have also brought war to the heart of our cities. i would like this parliament to express the same firmness against the actions and abuses of saudi arabia in yemen. but obviously the death of shiite civilians caused by this friendly democracy in the gulf, armed by the government of my country among others, does not have the same price as the death of the isis hostages in aleppo. finally, i would like parliament to pay attention to the fate of the remaining inhabitants of mosul when the peshmerga offensive, supported by the bombing of nato countries, has been launched. i'm sure if there's a problem, you'll use the vile phrase "collateral damage" again. your manichaeism is not only stupid but disgusting, it's like trying to protect the jihadists. choose your friends carefully.
in writing. the situation in syria has been appalling for several years and must be strongly condemned. but the latest abuses that have taken place, such as the repeated bombing of hospitals, humanitarian convoys and targeting of civilians, have proved that neither the syrian government nor its russian allies are serious about a ceasefire. it is in this context that i voted for this resolution, but also because it is essential that the international community continue to condemn unanimously what increasingly resembles war crimes. moreover, the fact that this resolution is shared by the various political groups in the european parliament conveys a precious image of unity which shows that speaking out and denouncing barbarism is always useful, especially as a sign that we are not abandoning the people of aleppo.
in writing. ‒ i do not intend to provide any support, direct or indirect, to the so-called rebels who are fighting an internationally recognised and democratically elected regime. moreover, i do not think that the warlike episodes of the syrian conflict have been analysed in the best possible objectivity by parliament. i chose to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria. in this resolution, parliament strongly condemned the atrocities committed in aleppo against civilians and civilian infrastructure. it is urgent to achieve a ceasefire and the establishment of a humanitarian corridor. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy should play a more prominent role on behalf of the union in mediating a peace agreement in syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on syria, which calls on the actors in the syrian conflict to stop bombing civilians, including hospitals and humanitarian aid convoys. the resolution also calls for the negotiations to resume swiftly so that a peace agreement can be reached in the near future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it takes the side of the opposition to assad and implicitly supports the jihadist groups on syrian soil. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ parliament must get involved in the battle for aleppo by putting all the parties involved on the same side. the primary russophobia to which the european institutions are accustomed can therefore be detected. moreover, the resolutions presented are tantamount to unspoken support for the forces opposed to the armies loyal to the legitimate syrian government. i therefore opposed the joint resolution and the gue/ngl group resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. we have repeatedly stressed that the european union has no competence in the field of foreign policy and that it should not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. this motion for a resolution is yet another example of this recklessness: parliament wants to interfere in the situation in syria, particularly with regard to the battle of aleppo. the resolution also aims to support the forces opposed to the armies that remain loyal to the internationally recognized syrian government. finally, it is a perfect example of the russophobia of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this joint resolution is mainly aimed at condemning the massacres of civilians taking place in aleppo, which is why i naturally support it. but it also uses this pretext to call only on "russia and the regime of bashar al-assad to stop all attacks targeting civilians and civilian infrastructure". it forgets to say that behind these civilian targets are often hidden, in this case in aleppo, jihadist troops, in particular from the al-nusra front, the syrian branch of al-qaeda. the latter has been responsible for the deaths of thousands of civilians in syria for months. a terrorist organisation that the united states, the gulf monarchies, turkey and also france under françois hollande have been sparingly supporting for years at the expense of peace in syria. the resolution also deliberately fails to mention the simultaneous us and french bombing of mosul, a city of 1.2 million people, the majority of whom are civilians with no defence or means of escape. i therefore vote against this resolution and support the much more balanced one tabled by my group, the gue/ngl group.
in writing. ‒ parliament must get involved in the battle for aleppo by putting all the parties involved on the same side. the primary russophobia to which the european institutions are accustomed can therefore be detected. moreover, the resolutions presented are tantamount to unspoken support for the forces opposed to the armies loyal to the legitimate syrian government. i therefore opposed the joint resolution and the gue/ngl group resolution.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution defends unacceptable immigration options, so i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in syria, which calls for an end to the violent attacks, particularly in aleppo, which have resulted in the deaths of many people, including civilians. the text also calls on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to step up her mediation activities with a view to finding a solution to the syrian conflict. the international community must be mobilized in a single coalition, including russia, to stop the war in syria, which is one of the consequences of the mass migration wave that europe is facing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on syria. europe has a role to play in this conflict. we have been the driving force in the restoration of relations with iran. so we need to use this channel of talks to put pressure on a key player on the syrian ground. the question is whether europe can provide a credible and tangible response to a conflict in which, among the diplomatic actors, it is the only one to suffer the consequences and yet the only one not to be at the negotiating table.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution by several political groups on the situation in syria. the war in syria has left more than 400,000 people dead, 13.5 million people in need of humanitarian assistance and nearly 5 million refugees. the syrian conflict has become the adjustment variable of the selfishness of certain powers. to pursue a foreign policy strategy by playing with the lives of innocent civilians is intolerable. the resolution of this unprecedented crisis goes beyond the role of the european parliament: it is up to the states, their governments, to finally take action. but citizens should know that while parliament is trying, within its powers, to contribute to the humanitarian aid effort for syria, for example, extremist meps, such as those in marine le pen's group, voted against budget transfers for humanitarian aid in 2015. as for us, members of the european people's party, we fought for almost 450 million euros to be released in 2016 to help the people who are victims of the atrocities of the bashar al-assad regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the escalation of hostilities in syria, in particular in aleppo, which has been subject to heavy aerial bombardment. the resolution condemns the recent attacks on a humanitarian convoy and on the red crescent infrastructure. it is no longer acceptable that civilians, including children, should be the targets of aerial bombardment. these indiscriminate strikes constitute serious violations of international humanitarian law. it is urgent that the union and its member states continue their efforts to mediate a peace agreement in syria, especially since the failure of the ceasefire and the escalation of violence. as such, the vice-president/high representative should present a european strategy for syria as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ parliament is involved in the battle for aleppo by putting all parties on the same side. add to this the primary russophobia of the european institutions. all the resolutions presented are tantamount to supporting forces opposed to the armies loyal to the internationally recognized syrian government. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a new resolution on the situation in syria, expressing understandable concern about the situation in aleppo. but there is no question in this resolution of condemning only certain belligerents, namely russia and the regime of bashar al-assad, while completely forgetting the others, in particular daesh, a group which the resolution does not even mention, or radical armed groups such as al-nusra. as if the conflict in syria was born yesterday and as if it was born out of nowhere. not a single word of compassion, not even a word of remembrance for the thousands of people who are being driven from their homes by this terrible conflict. not a word about the solutions we can offer them. no humanitarian visas, you know. no compulsory resettlement program. in short, another resolution that is not concerned about the real causes and consequences of a conflict in which impotence is evident and hypocrisy even more so. i abstained in solidarity with the victims of this war, which has lasted only too long, and because the text calls in particular for humanitarian aid to be allowed to arrive unhindered.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is essential that the union as a whole ratifies the paris agreement before cop22 in marrakesh for the agreement to enter into force. it is essential that the union maintains its place at the table in marrakesh.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the cop22 which will take place in marrakech in november 2016. the european parliament sends an official delegation to the council, which is a figurehead and does not take part in the negotiations. this resolution should formulate the wishes to be conveyed to the commission's negotiators. the resolution is, unsurprisingly, enthusiastic and calls for the urgent ratification of the paris agreement. it calls on the union to make even greater efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on businesses (but by supporting economic development from the tip of the lips), more circular economy... and more migrants to welcome because of climate change! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. in the face of the union's measures which lead to our deindustrialization in order to produce under more polluting conditions what we will import, i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that we must recognise the importance of ratifying the paris agreement. however, the consequences for member states must be recognised and the proper implementation of the measures monitored in order to ensure the success of cop22 in marrakech.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the cop22 to be held in marrakech in november 2016. i am against this resolution because we disagree on many points: the immeasurable efforts of the member states of the union, climate migrants, the ways and sources of financing the fight against climate change, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because it is contrary to the immediate interests of the member states, requiring them to make more and more efforts while they are rapidly deindustrialising because of the guidelines sought by the union since the beginning of the 2000s and in particular the disastrous theory of the 'knowledge economy'. moreover, the british pragmatists embarked on a policy of voluntary recovery, understanding that a large country could never have a successful economy without national industry. cop 22 is too restrictive for eu member countries and will not be respected by the majority of developing countries, which pollute much more. we support initiatives that can really make our planet more viable and sustainable, without putting a sword of damocles on our economies.
in writing. ‒ the 22nd conference on climate change (cop 22) will be held in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. in this resolution, the european parliament asks the council and the commission what steps they intend to take to ensure that cop 22 makes progress on the key elements of the paris agreement, to influence the review of national commitments in 2018 and to strengthen climate finance to reach the $100 billion target. the paris agreement provides for effective, long-term measures to keep the increase in global temperatures well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels, while striving to limit the increase to 1.5°c. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to take stock of the state of play of the climate change negotiations. the resolution welcomes the results of the paris climate agreement (cop 21), recalling that it is an ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding agreement. considering that the european union is the originator of the paris agreement and that it must contribute to global efforts to reduce global warming, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the conference of the parties to the 2016 united nations framework convention on climate change (cop 22), to be held in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. the paris agreement is a historic success in environmental protection. it is important to build on this success in the run-up to cop 22. it is therefore essential that this conference serves as a driving force for the implementation of the paris agreement so that our objectives can be achieved. the financing of the fight against climate change should therefore be an important issue to be addressed at cop 22.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out parliament's positions for the 22nd conference of the parties to be held in marrakech in november 2016. the resolution stressed in particular the urgency of implementing the measures provided for in the paris agreements and the kyoto protocol. the fight against climate change is indeed everyone's business and each state must commit itself to it quickly. the resolution stresses the need for strict compliance with the rules when it comes to international activities in the aviation and shipping sector in particular.
in writing. by ratifying the paris climate agreement, the first ever universal and legally binding global climate agreement, the european union and its member states have sent a strong signal just weeks before the opening of cop22 in marrakech. this was all the more necessary as the eu had to have ratified the agreement in order to be able to participate in the first decisions as a stakeholder. the eu must seize this opportunity to continue its leadership in the global fight against climate change. this implies a more ambitious strategy, in the medium and long term, to reach the zero emission target by 2050. the union should further promote green finance and set stricter limits on emissions from the international civil aviation and maritime transport sectors. the european union must also continue its efforts within itself and with partners in third countries on the creation of financial transaction taxes, part of whose resources could support the adaptation of developing countries to climate change.
in writing. ‒ vote against: in the face of the european union's excessive efforts to de-industrialise our country so that we can produce in more polluting conditions what we import, we will continue on our usual course.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. cop22 must be as ambitious as the previous cop! it is intended to provide an update on the progress of the ratification of the paris agreement and on the practical follow-up measures that can facilitate and accelerate its implementation. efforts by all sectors will be required in each country that has ratified the agreement and, as such, international negotiations in the air and maritime sectors are essential to ensure that the same rule applies to all. the european union must apply appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure the competitiveness of its industry until a level playing field is achieved and to prevent carbon leakage where appropriate. this is why it is urgent that the paris agreement be respected by all. our european climate diplomacy must continue along these lines!
in writing. ‒ the paris agreements, which the resolution calls on us to sign as soon as possible, do not serve the interests of european countries. i do not want to support a contradictory project to de-industrialise us gradually by stepping up our efforts in favour of green funds or the circular economy, all in favour of imports that cause more polluting production and ever greater immigration linked to climate change. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague giovanni la via on cop 22 in marrakech. this report was an opportunity to underline our commitment to the goals of the paris agreement and to working fully for the climate. the negotiations to be held in november will deal with the details of the global balance sheet, the establishment of a transparency framework and the financing of the fight against climate change. i am glad that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to underline the european parliament's commitment to climate change issues. the approval of cop 21 and now the adoption of a common position for cop 22 will send a strong signal to the international community, while inviting it to act.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i disagree with many of its provisions. one reason is that it requires considerable effort from eu member states, while other states are not willing to commit themselves to doing the same. and also because it highlights the welcome of climate refugees. finally, because it calls for agricultural subsidies to be used for non-agricultural purposes...
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which affirms our wish to continue efforts towards the 2016 un climate change conference (cop 22) in marrakech: financing the fight against climate change, establishing mechanisms to reduce the risk of carbon leakage, reducing non-co2 emissions, the need to include non-state actors in the discussions and to share efforts more effectively... a clear and responsible roadmap for the next climate negotiations!
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the cop 22 to be held in marrakech in november 2016. the european parliament sends an official delegation to the council, which will not take part in the negotiations. barbara kappel will be representing the enl group. this resolution should express the wishes conveyed to the commission's negotiators. not surprisingly, the resolution calls for the urgent ratification of the paris agreement. it calls on the eu to make even greater efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on companies... it also refers to the reception of 'climate migrants'. i have thus opposed the incoherent constraints imposed on us by the eu, which have the consequence of massive deindustrialisation in our countries and, at the same time, more polluting production elsewhere than we import.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. this motion for a resolution raises several problems. firstly, it is very enthusiastic about the paris agreements and is calling for their ratification. we abstained on this text, in particular because of the deindustrialization measures it provides for. the commission's proposal is intended to give the european parliament powers it does not have. the authors want to send a parliament delegation to the cop 22 conference in marrakesh. a delegation that can only be symbolic! furthermore, the resolution makes unreasonable vows. it calls on member states to do even more: increase budgets for green energy, place even more constraints on businesses, and finally welcome more migrants because of climate change! we therefore find this motion for a resolution unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ after cop 21 in paris, the next un framework convention on climate change will be held in marrakech in november. the report calls for action beyond the paris agreement, as the sum of national contributions does not bring the 2°c target for limiting global warming any closer. this is an 'undeniable' disorder, mainly caused by human activity, and supported by much of the ipcc's work, which is now universally recognised. it proposes some concrete targets for reducing carbon emissions by 2030, such as phasing out fossil fuel subsidies. but beyond a few measures, the logic of green capitalism has not changed. he advocates the introduction of this system of trading emission allowances at the global level, while this 'carbon market' functions as a subsidy system for polluters. in the end, the fight against global warming is just the 'lever for a greener growth'. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the cop 22 to be held in marrakech in november 2016. the european parliament sends an official delegation to the council, which will not take part in the negotiations. barbara kappel will be representing the enl group. this resolution should express the wishes conveyed to the commission's negotiators. not surprisingly, the resolution calls for the urgent ratification of the paris agreement. it calls on the eu to make even greater efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on companies... it also refers to the reception of 'climate migrants'. i have therefore opposed the incoherent constraints imposed on us by the eu, which have the consequence of massive deindustrialisation in our countries and, at the same time, more polluting production elsewhere than we import.
in writing. ‒ unsurprisingly, the resolution is enthusiastic and calls for urgent ratification of the paris agreement. it calls on the union to make more and more efforts: more budget for green funds, more constraints on companies (but by supporting economic development from the tip of the lips), more circular economy... and more migrants to welcome because of climate change! i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the conference of the parties to the 2016 united nations framework convention on climate change (cop 22), to be held in marrakech. the international community's mobilization in the fight against global warming is necessary and must not stop. in this context, the european union must maintain its leading and driving role in limiting temperature rise and polluting emissions.
in writing. ‒ as the european parliament's rapporteur on cop 21, i would first of all like to welcome the ratification by the european union of the paris agreement, which was formalised yesterday by our vote in plenary. our challenge is met! the paris agreement will enter into force at the 22nd un conference on climate change. this is a first victory! clearly, much remains to be done in the fight against climate change. if cop 21 was about decisions, cop 22 will be about action. cop 22 will have to implement the paris agreement in practice, with the following priority: the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, such as the adoption of a financial transaction tax, the setting of a floor price per tonne of carbon and the reform of the european emissions trading system (ets).
in writing. ‒ ahead of the united nations conference of the parties on climate change (cop 22) in marrakech in november 2016, i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls the need to implement the commitments of states made when the historic cop 21 agreement was signed in paris. future discussions will focus on the tools to be implemented to make the 2°c reduction goal truly achievable. the states parties to the cop must turn words into action. the european union will therefore need to continue to assume its international leadership role in the fight against global warming by adopting new emission targets for 2050.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the european parliament's position on the holding of cop 22 in marrakech in november. cop 22 should focus on the state of progress of the ratification and implementation of the paris agreement. the european union will have to ensure that it maintains its leadership in the fight against climate change. much remains to be done in this area and all actors, both public and private, must contribute to this overall action.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has just voted to ratify the paris agreement, which member states must take up without delay. it is time to act at cop 22 in marrakech. i supported this resolution because cop 22 must now implement all the measures adopted in the paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. through this resolution, we reaffirm and recall the crucial role of non-state actors in the transition to a decarbonised economy. it also requires immediate commitment from all sectors of the economy to reduce greenhouse gases. the question of financing the ecological transition is therefore at the heart of this resolution and i welcome the adoption of the amendments by the socialist and democratic group, in particular those aimed at financing the transition to a sustainable development model. the resolution also reaffirms the need to respect human rights in the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the cop 22 to be held in marrakech in november 2016. the european parliament sends an official delegation to the council, which is an ex-officio member and does not take part in the negotiations. barbara kappel will be representing the enl group. this resolution should express the wishes conveyed to the commission's negotiators. the resolution is, unsurprisingly, enthusiastic and calls for the urgent ratification of the paris agreement. it calls for the eu to do more: more budget for green funds, more constraints on businesses (but by supporting economic development from the tip of the lips), more circular economy, and calls on eu countries to welcome more "climate" migrants. i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution affirms that the paris agreement is 'ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding', while acknowledging that most of its provisions are non-binding and that the historical challenges that needed to be addressed were largely missed. the resolution also acknowledges that the sum of 'nationally determined contributions' at global level 'does not even come close to the objective' of limiting global warming to a maximum of 2°c, and that this limit, which is unattainable in the state, 'does not guarantee that serious impacts on the climate will be avoided'. it would almost be laughable if the stakes weren't so high. the text also makes the 'carbon market' the alpha and omega of the fight against climate change, whereas emissions trading systems have largely proven to be ineffective and dangerous. and what about the vain demands made to 'developed countries, especially those in the union, to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions in a draconian manner, beyond current commitments', when we know that in practice they are doing exactly the opposite as we see in france with the government's persistence in maintaining the notre dame des landes project. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on materials coming into contact with our food. in this report we have won a battle: the battle of the total ban, following the example of france, of bisphenol a. this is a victory we are delighted with, proof that europe can protect europeans, including their health. europe in recent years has often struggled to cope with the challenges of the early 21st century. but it has also made great strides in many areas, including health care. a concrete europe, which meets the expectations of the citizens, is what we would like to see more often!
in writing. ‒ we are against further harmonisation at european level of legislation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. in addition to the position in principle, it should be recalled that the opinions and recommendations of the european food safety authority do not have a consensus in the scientific community or among consumer associations. this is evidenced by its erroneous recommendations concerning bisphenol a. the member states should therefore be encouraged to develop their own legislation, while respecting the precautionary principle. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this resolution because i believe that decisions are needed to address the lack of specific union measures for certain materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. the current regulatory framework needs to be re-designed to better achieve the objectives of protecting consumer health while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ 'food contact material' (hereinafter 'fcm') consists of materials which come into contact with food at all stages of the production and consumption chain: containers, packaging, tableware, etc. i support this report to efsa and the commission. on the other hand, the recommendations for the revision of regulation 1935/2004, and in particular the consideration of the cocktail effect, the protection of pregnant women and the technical measures on bisphenol, seem to me to be sound.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation which calls for even more draconian new rules at european level to harmonise legislation on 'materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs', known as fcm for food contact material in english. these rules should be the responsibility of the member states. nevertheless, some recommendations for revisions are in the right direction, including the consideration of the cocktail effect, the protection of pregnant women and technical measures on bisphenol.
in writing. ‒ this report contains proposals for the regulation of materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs at all stages of the production and/or consumption chain: containers, packaging, tableware. it aims in particular to harmonise national regulations (in line with french standards) and to extend the scope of application of fcm (food contact material) to better protect pregnant women and to protect themselves against bisphenol. in this it contains evidence against the european commission and efsa. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report covers everyday materials in contact with food, such as packaging, kitchenware and dishes. the european commission has identified 17 product groups that may come into contact with foodstuffs, but it notes that only four groups are subject to harmonised measures at european level. at the same time, there are divergences between national rules which hamper food security and the protection of citizens in the union. the report therefore proposes to harmonise national legislation for all the product groups concerned. i have supported this report, as it aims to strengthen food security in the internal market.
in writing. sharing the concerns of european citizens on food safety, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with food. the absence of specific european measures creates different levels of security within the union, which is contrary to european values and internal market principles. it is also in the interest of consumer protection that i have spoken in favour of a ban on bisphenol a in all materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, given the doubts about the potential dangers of this product, in particular for foetuses and young children.
in writing. ‒ this report is a clear signal to the european commission and to consumers! chemicals in materials intended to come into contact with food, including through packaging, cookware, dishes, etc., can endanger human health or significantly alter the composition of products consumed, and it is essential that the european commission address this issue. i voted for this report because it is important to harmonise at european level the different measures taken by the member states, but also to reflect on the gaps in the current legislation. we must work towards better legislation on this matter, legislation which aims to inform and protect the citizen properly. finally, i am particularly pleased with the adoption of the amendment on the ban on bisphenol a (bpa) in all materials intended to come into contact with food. it is a chemical that is considered to be an endocrine disruptor, toxic to the reproductive organs, and is found in many everyday consumer products.
in writing. ‒ we adopted this report on materials that come into contact with our food (packaging, kitchenware, dishes). it has a key breakthrough in the fight against endocrine disruptors. these, present in our daily lives, have a negative impact on human health. in this case, the total ban, as in france, of bisphenol a is a real victory.
in writing. food contact materials are found in the everyday lives of europeans, whether in the form of food packaging, cooking utensils or dishes. these materials have chemical properties which, if left unchecked, can sometimes be hazardous to health. only four of these products (including plastics and ceramics) are currently subject to specific safety measures at european level, with the control of the other 13 listed materials left to the discretion of the member states. in view of the risks to public health and the environment, the union needs to harmonise its controls more. in addition, the total ban on bisphenol a, which is limited to a few member states such as france or sweden, should be extended to the whole of the union.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the report contains the following main proposals: coverage of 13 materials not covered by current legislation by european measures; the legislation takes into account the 'cocktail effect' of materials intended to come into contact with food (i.e. the result of their interaction) and substances resulting from chemical reactions of materials intended to come into contact with food (i.e. 'non intentionally added substances'); publication of harmonised guidelines on testing and control procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to better regulate the composition of materials that come into contact with food (various packaging, canned goods, plastic bottles, etc.) in order to prevent any health risk to consumers. the report focuses in particular on the application and implementation of the current legislation governing such materials and highlights serious shortcomings in some member states as regards control and traceability. i also supported an amendment calling for a total ban in europe of bisphenol a, which is already banned in france. this chemical, which is widely used in the industrial manufacture of plastics and varnishes, is a known endocrine disruptor, toxic to the reproductive organs.
in writing. there is no shortage of cases of food contamination with chemicals that can endanger human health. food packaging, kitchen utensils and dishes are all materials widely used in everyday life and whose composition deserves to be examined. it is in this context that i voted in favour of my danish colleague, mr schaldemose's report calling for a review of the european legislative framework, which has so far proved ineffective. several shortcomings are identified in the risk assessment carried out by efsa, with regard to the traceability and control of these materials. we stress the risks of endocrine disruptors and bisphenol a, support the ban of the latter in particular, and call on the european commission to propose alternative solutions to this substance of very high concern.
in writing. ‒ we support this report, which we welcome from the commission and the european food safety authority, and which we believe is moving in the right direction, in that it calls for better protection of pregnant women, better consideration of the cocktail effect of mcf and technical measures on bisphenol. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague christel schaldemose on the application of the legislation on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. it was important to me to support this regulation which aims to protect public health and consumer interests. this report therefore provides an opportunity to invite the commission to review the current framework in order to facilitate risk assessment, traceability, compliance and control of its materials. i supported the eu-wide ban on bisphenol a in food contact materials, a provision already in force in france since january 2015. i welcome the adoption of this report, which contributes to strengthening european public health policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to protect public health from dangerous substances in contact with food, in particular bisphenol a. it also has the merit of exposing the errors of the brussels commission and the european food safety authority (efsa).
in writing. ‒ food contact material (fcm) consists of materials that come into contact with food at all stages of the production and consumption chain: containers, packaging, tableware, etc. we are in favour of this report against the commission and efsa. the report and the recommendations for the revision of regulation 1935/2004 are moving in the right direction: the coverage of 13 materials not covered by the current legislation by european measures, the consideration of the cocktail effect, the protection of pregnant women and technical measures on bisphenol. in addition, the text calls for harmonisation of the reach regulation (1907/2006) as it contains provisions which are in contradiction with the fcm directives. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. there is now european legislation on food contact materials (fcms), i.e. materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. the purpose of this regulation is to lay down standards on the effects of fcms on the taste of food and on the alteration of the composition or texture of foodstuffs. the text proposed by the committee is to cover more materials, to take into account the cocktail effect (the result of the interaction of several cmfs) and finally to harmonise conflicting regulations, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ materials intended to come into contact with food are commonly used in everyday life: food packaging, kitchen utensils, dishes, etc. depending on their composition and properties, these different materials can transfer their constituents to food. thus, chemicals from materials may endanger human health or adversely affect the composition of food products. an eu regulation adopted in 2004 aims to ensure a high level of consumer protection for products containing materials intended to come into contact with food. the report details the shortcomings of this regulation. it also notes that 'a number of substances in materials intended to come into contact with food are not currently being evaluated'. it also advocated 'specific measures for the 13 materials (glue, silicone, etc.) which are not yet regulated at eu level'. it also criticises the evaluation procedures applied by the european food safety authority (efsa), which do not take into account either the 'cocktail' effect or the effect of multiple, concurrent and cumulative exposures. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ food contact material (fcm) consists of materials that come into contact with food at all stages of the production and consumption chain: containers, packaging, tableware, etc. we are in favour of this report against the commission and efsa. the report and the recommendations for the revision of regulation 1935/2004 are moving in the right direction: the coverage of 13 materials not covered by the current legislation by european measures, the consideration of the cocktail effect, the protection of pregnant women and technical measures on bisphenol. in addition, the text calls for harmonisation of the reach regulation (1907/2006) as it contains provisions which are in contradiction with the fcm directives. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report against the commission and efsa. on the other hand, the recommendations for the revision of regulation (ec) no 1935/2004, and in particular the consideration of the cocktail effect, the protection of pregnant women and the technical measures on bisphenol, seem to me to be sound. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on materials intended to come into contact with food via packaging, kitchenware, dishes... it is necessary to harmonise at european level the various measures taken by the member states to ensure that the citizen does not find in his diet elements harmful to his health. this is the purpose of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. it is clear that chemicals can sometimes be produced from materials that we all use in our daily lives - packaging, dishes, kitchen utensils, and so forth. the aim of this text is therefore to promote the harmonisation at european level of measures taken by the member states. existing gaps need to be identified to continue to protect against risks, which is why i also voted to bring the ban on bisphenol a (bpa) in all food contact materials to the eu level.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1935/2004 lays down general safety requirements for materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. however, it does not ensure sufficient consumer protection, as many materials are not subject to specific measures at european level and the provisions adopted by some member states are insufficiently protective. the report aims to improve the existing rules and fill in the gaps. it urged the commission and the relevant agencies to improve the level of consumer protection, in particular by extending the concept of vulnerable groups to include pregnant or breastfeeding women. the report proposes a ban on bisphenol a in all materials intended to come into contact with food and improved traceability of nanomaterials, and calls for the introduction of a requirement to present complete identification documents and declarations of conformity. finally, the report recommends a drastic increase in the efficiency and frequency of regulatory compliance checks. as it helps to protect consumers better, especially pregnant women and children, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ materials in contact with food, such as packaging or plastic bottles, contain chemicals that can endanger human health. it is therefore urgent and essential that the european commission act on this issue and harmonise the measures taken by each member state in this area. this harmonisation must also be accompanied by solutions to current shortcomings in order to improve legislation and protect consumer health. i also voted in favour of banning bisphenol a in any material that might come into contact with food. bisphenol a is a dangerous chemical, endocrine disruptor and toxic. this substance is already banned in france but it is urgent that it be banned at european level.
in writing. ‒ materials intended to come into contact with food are widely used in everyday life: food packaging, kitchen utensils, dishes, etc. the contact of these materials with foodstuffs can endanger human health, as they contain harmful chemicals. regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 has proved to be ineffective and its revision is therefore necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect consumers and their health, including the banning of bisphenol a, which is considered by many scientists to be an endocrine disruptor. the european commission's recognition of the dangerous nature of this substance is a step forward and i welcome the fact that parliament has voted to ban it. the commission must now propose alternatives to this substance and review the regulation to ensure the health of europeans.
in writing. ‒ 'food contact material' (hereinafter 'fcm') consists of materials which come into contact with food at all stages of the production and consumption chain: containers, packaging, tableware, etc. the report contains the following main proposals:- coverage of 13 materials not currently covered by european measures- taking into account by legislation the 'cocktail' effect of fcms (i.e. the result of their interactions) as well as substances resulting from chemical reactions of fcms- publication of harmonised guidelines on test and control procedures. in addition, the text calls for harmonisation of the reach regulation (1907/2006) as it contains provisions which are in contradiction with the fcm directives. i also think that the recommendations on taking into account the cocktail effect, the protection of pregnant women and technical measures on bisphenol are sound. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ if there is one area where european legislation should prove effective, it is to ensure health protection by implementing harmonised rules that are consistent with the precautionary principle. the report notes the shortcomings in the implementation of eu legislation in this area despite the predominance of the materials concerned on the eu market and the risk they pose to human health. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commercial'. i particularly welcome the adoption of the amendment including the ban on bisphenol a, whose dangers are known to all. i am surprised that 239 members (41 alde, 41 ecr, 1 efdd, 3 enf, 4 ni, 154 epp) chose to vote against a request that goes beyond the application of the most basic precautionary principle by taking a product deemed dangerous out of circulation.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls or advocates a number of points that we are fighting against, namely, in particular, the equal treaty value of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, compliance with union law as a political priority, the suggestion of greater involvement of parliament in the correct transposition of union legislation, in particular in each member state as well as for the candidate countries, the link between the effective application of union law and the strengthening of the credibility of the union institutions. the report stresses that 'when applying eu law, member states should avoid adding unnecessary constraints to eu law, as this leads to a misconception of eu legislative activity and fosters unjustified euroscepticism among citizens' (sic). the report also calls for greater access by parliament to information on eu pilot cases. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the conclusion that the application of eu law is not yet sufficiently transparent. i also support the idea that the european parliament should have a proactive role in this matter.
in writing. ‒ a text advocating a number of points that we are fighting against, namely, in particular, the equal value to the treaties of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, compliance with union law as a political priority, the suggestion of greater involvement of the parliament in the exact transposition of union legislation, especially in each member state. the report stresses that 'when applying eu law, member states should avoid adding unnecessary constraints to eu law, as this leads to a misconception of eu legislative activity and fosters unjustified euroscepticism among citizens' (sic). the report also calls for greater access by parliament to information on eu pilot cases. i voted against, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which recalls or advocates the equal treaty value of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, compliance with union law as a political priority, the suggestion of greater involvement of parliament in the correct transposition of union legislation, particularly in each member state and for the candidate countries, the link between the effective application of union law and the strengthening of the credibility of the union institutions. we are sovereignists and we are fighting against european law which subjects our standards to those of illegitimate supranational institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls or advocates a number of points that i oppose, namely, in particular, the equal treaty value of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, compliance with union law as a political priority, the suggestion of greater involvement of parliament in the correct transposition of union law, in particular in each member state and for the candidate countries, and the link between the effective application of union law and the strengthening of the credibility of the union institutions. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the infringement procedures initiated by the european commission against member states. it also recalls that the brussels commission is the guardian of the treaties (article 17 of the eu treaty) and that as such it has the right to bring an action before the court of justice of the european union against a member state for incorrect transposition of a directive into national law or incorrect application of an eu regulation. in this connection, the court delivered five judgments in which it ordered italy, greece, portugal, spain and sweden to pay the costs. above all, it particularly praises two constitutive aspects of the union's positive law which i have always fought against: the equal legal value of the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights and the institution as a political priority of the conformity of national legislation with union law. that is why i voted against this report in order to defend the legislative and legal sovereignty of france.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report covers the 32nd annual report on the monitoring of the application of european law and the effective implementation and practical application of community law. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from the risks of cybercrime and that the eu's citizens are protected from the risks of cybercrime. considering that the full and proper application of european law is an essential component of the effectiveness of european policies, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported this report on the 2014 annual report on the monitoring of the application of union law. european citizens can only have confidence in the european commission's monitoring of the application of eu law by the member states if they are satisfied with the degree of transparency. in this respect, an informal process of consultation between the commission and the member states on issues relating to the conformity of national legislation with european law or the proper application of eu law, known as the eu-pilot, is particularly opaque. it is therefore essential to make the content of these consultations more accessible by revising the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission and including informal eu pilot-type processes. once this review has been carried out, the commission will be obliged to keep parliament informed of the progress of its informal consultations with the member states.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report advocates a number of points that we are fighting against, namely, in particular, the equal treaty value of the eu charter of fundamental rights, compliance with eu law as a political priority, the suggestion of greater involvement of parliament in the correct transposition of eu legislation, in particular in each member state and for the candidate countries, the link between the effective application of eu law and the strengthening of the credibility of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report raises a number of points on which i disagree with the eu's ambition, notably the political priority given to respect for community law, the excessive value given to the charter of fundamental rights, or any strengthening of the european institutions. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, heidi hautala, on the application of eu law. the aim of this text is to highlight the way in which eu law has been applied by the member states. the 2014 report highlights some shortcomings, and i welcome the commission's initiative to strengthen its partnership with states to address the infringements identified and to improve the handling of complaints from european citizens and businesses. this report is part of the commitment of all the european institutions to ensure that european legislation better serves the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is in line with the report published annually by the european commission, presenting the main trends in the eu pilot procedure and in infringement procedures against member states. the 2014 report highlights in particular that the environment, transport and the internal market for services are the areas of public policy where the most infringements are committed. the report shows a decline in infringements over the last five years, demonstrating the quality of the dialogue with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it defends measures that we are fighting, in particular the equal value to the treaties of the eu charter of fundamental rights, or compliance with eu law as a political priority.
in writing. ‒ this initiative is in response to the report published annually by the european commission, pursuant to articles 16 and 17 of the tfeu, to present the main trends in the eu pilot procedure and in infringement procedures against member states. the 2014 report highlights in particular that the environment, transport and the internal market for services are the areas of public policy where infringements are still most numerous. the juri report also sought to build on the work of its working party on administrative law by suggesting that a regulation on administrative procedure within the institutions could contribute to a better application of union law. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recalls or advocates a number of points to which we are opposed, namely, in particular, the eu charter of fundamental rights as equal to the treaties, compliance with eu law as a political priority and the suggestion of greater involvement of the parliament in the correct transposition of eu legislation in each member state as well as for the candidate countries. the report stresses that 'when applying eu law, member states should avoid adding unnecessary constraints to eu law, as this leads to a misconception of eu legislative activity and fosters unjustified euroscepticism among citizens' (sic). i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the 2014 annual report of the committee on the enforcement of eu law takes stock of the infringement procedures initiated against member states. the text we have voted recalls or advocates several concepts that we oppose: the equal value of the charter of fundamental rights of the union to the treaties, compliance with union law as a political priority, etc. the report stresses that 'when applying eu law, member states should avoid adding unnecessary constraints to eu law, as this leads to a misconception of eu legislative activity and fosters unjustified euroscepticism among citizens'. we are of course opposed to this concept.
in writing. ‒ every year, the commission takes stock of the application of the treaties: the transposition of european legislation into national law and infringement procedures against recalcitrant states. the environment is the most important issue. france has been repeatedly in the red for its air pollution rate of fine particles for example. without the impact of german coal mines being incriminated. i guess so. the report notes that there are fewer infringements, supports citizens' petitions and complaints and denounces the setting of often unrealistic deadlines. i welcome the fact that it recalls the possibility of setting 'higher social and environmental standards in the member states than at union level'. but above all, he asks the commission to 'apply more 'dissuasive financial sanctions' to 'creatively' assess the union and thus combat 'unjustified euroscepticism among citizens'. the commission is thus seeking to incorporate the sanctions of the european semester, the so-called golden rules, into the marble of the treaties. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report recalls or advocates a number of points to which we are opposed, namely, in particular, the eu charter of fundamental rights as equal to the treaties, compliance with eu law as a political priority and the suggestion of greater involvement of the parliament in the correct transposition of eu legislation in each member state as well as for the candidate countries. the report stresses that 'when applying eu law, member states should avoid adding unnecessary constraints to eu law, as this leads to a misconception of eu legislative activity and fosters unjustified euroscepticism among citizens' (sic). i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls or advocates a number of points that we are fighting against, namely, in particular, the equal treaty value of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, compliance with union law as a political priority, the suggestion of greater involvement of parliament in the correct transposition of union legislation, in particular in each member state as well as for the candidate countries, the link between the effective application of union law and the strengthening of the credibility of the union institutions. i have no choice but to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is the annual publication of the european commission on the application of eu law in the member states. unfortunately, the areas of public policy where the most serious infringements occur are those related to the internal market, transport and the environment. for policies decided at union level to be coherent and effective, they must be applied and respected in all european territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the year 2014 on the monitoring of the application of eu law. this text emphasises the essential role played by the european commission in monitoring the application of community law, while recalling the primary role of the european parliament in exercising political supervision over the commission's implementing measures. the report points out that the application of eu law is not sufficiently transparent and that the environment, transport and the internal market for services are the areas of public policy where infringements are still most numerous.
in writing. ‒ the commission's annual report 2014 on the monitoring of the application of union law takes stock of the infringement procedures brought against member states for delayed or incorrect transposition of union directives by the commission, in the context of its role as 'guardian of the treaties'. the most problematic areas were health, the environment, consumer protection and transport. in 2014, the court of justice of the union delivered 38 judgments against member states. it ordered italy, greece, portugal, spain and sweden to pay the costs. this report recalls or advocates a number of points that we are fighting against, namely, in particular, the equal value to the treaties of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, compliance with union law as a political priority, the suggestion of greater involvement of the parliament in the correct transposition of union legislation in particular in each member state as well as for the candidate countries. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the authorisation of the cultivation of this gm maize. bt11 maize is tolerant to the herbicide glufosinate-ammonium. in addition, it should be recalled once again that the rules on the authorisation of gmos are not democratic, as jean-claude juncker himself has admitted. it is therefore up to parliament to play its part in promoting transparency and democracy. no new proposal for rules on the import of gmos appears to be proposed by the commission. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. our objective remains the same: no genetically modified food will be validated by the european parliament in committee until the commission has proposed a new framework for the import of gmos, in order to take account of the fact that gmos are the majority in europe. it is a question of democracy and also a way of enforcing the european parliament's choices in the institutional game.
in writing. ‒ five objections are raised by parliament on authorisations to grow or import gm maize or wheat. despite systematic objections, the commission continues to issue authorisations for cultivation or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu. i therefore voted in favour of these new objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to ban the import and placing on the market of herbicide-resistant maize. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ parliament has tabled five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos with different properties. gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity. monitoring of effects on nature is insufficient, efsa's evaluation is still minimal and also contrary to food sovereignty. in this case, i voted in favour of this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the object is to object to the placing on the market of seeds of genetically modified bt11 maize for cultivation by the manufacturer syngenta. the issues raised are glufosinate, which is due to be banned in 2017 (ownership is therefore useless) and the destruction of biodiversity. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the present report proposes to adopt five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos, including those from monsanto. these objections highlight the hypocrisy and double-talk of the meps of the majority groups who vote against what they promise to their constituents. i voted in favour of these objections.
in writing. ‒ the object of this objection is to oppose the placing on the market of the gmo bt11. i object to this because the european commission has respected its mandate within the framework of the implementing powers granted to it by the european parliament and the council. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take into account the many precautionary measures adopted by the european legislator in relation to the authorisation of new products to be placed on the market, as well as the positive scientific opinion given by the european food safety authority. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to refuse the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation. the objection is based on an allegation that the commission exceeded the implementing powers conferred on it by this authorisation. however, the commission has complied with the existing procedure for the authorisation of gmos. it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not hazardous to human and animal health and the environment. i therefore believe that this objection is unwarranted and merely reflects a desire to ban all gmos systematically, whereas this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed companies that hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorisations for the use of genetically modified bt11 maize seeds tolerant of glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who). in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who support the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union.
in writing. ‒ we are witnessing a game of swings: the commission insists on encouraging the cultivation and import of gmos in our countries by its authorisations, and sweeping away the equally stubborn opposition of parliament. all this is of little use, and it is not enough to relieve the parliamentarians who are holding the commission in their power by the tape of their responsibility. i remain convinced that the marketing of bt11 seeds is harmful. i voted for it because i believe in it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection on the renewal of the authorisation of genetically modified maize seeds by the european commission. in authorising the placing on the market for cultivation or marketing purposes, the european commission duly followed the procedure by taking into account the analysis of the european food safety authority. it is also important to remember that genetically modified products on french display or in french crops are subject to authorisation by the french state and not by the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity. the european parliament agreed to vote on it, which shows that the commission's initiative was harmful. i want france to regain its food sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of that objection.
in writing. - i voted for this text. parliament raised five objections to authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc. we therefore support these objections and, in this case, the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds.
in writing. ‒ the report opposes the commission's decision to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified maize bt11 seeds. this variety is developed by syngenta. it gives resistance to certain insects (maize bollworm). but of course there is also tolerance to herbicides containing phosphinotricine (ppt), such as ammonium glufosinate, a substance classified as toxic to reproduction. and it's actually banned from use on corn in the eu. the report criticises the assessment made by the european food safety authority (efsa). in particular, it points to the arbitrary introduction of the concept of an 'acceptable local mortality' level for non-target lepidopteran species. the corn is known to kill insects other than the corn borer, which it is supposed to be specialized in. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of this objection, as i did of the other four.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the union. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the authorisation of gm maize bt11, the placing on the market of which is a matter for the member states, because it is based on the false argument that the commission exceeded its powers by authorising this maize. the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. it then proposed this authorisation of gmos to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. - i voted against that objection. the european commission did not exceed its powers and respected the procedure for authorising gmos, thanks in particular to the opinion of the european food safety authority. it should be recalled that this proposal for marketing authorisation was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it. therefore, the objections used by political groups such as the greens have no real effect because they concern implementing acts. more generally, i would like to point out that france prohibits the cultivation of gmos, even though it imports them.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for cultivation or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who support the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union. i vote in favour of that objection.
in writing. ‒ the safety of gmos is far from proven. the danger of many of them, both for the environment and for consumers, is well established. the precautionary principle should therefore prevail. however, the european commission regularly authorises them. the current procedure does not allow the blocking of marketing authorisations for gmos granted by the european commission. as far as the cultivation of gmos authorized by the commission is concerned, it can only be blocked by the member states on their territory. but we all know that pollen does not stop at frontiers, nor do insects that have become resistant. so, with a large majority of my colleagues, we have just challenged the authorisation and renewal of the authorisation of five gmos, including the famous monsanto gm maize. i welcome this vote even though it is essentially a political position to put pressure on the commission to propose new legislation. but i have no illusions about what the european commission will do. that is why i call on our citizens to use this vote to press for and enforce the precautionary principle in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the cultivation of gm maize 1507, which has enabled efsa to develop the interesting concept of 'acceptable mortality' for pollinating butterflies, a valuable species of lepidopterans. it is necessary to remind the public of the immense risks to pollinators and of our responsibility to protect them. lepidoptera are the main nocturnal pollinators of flowers, and they play a vital role in the cycle of nature.
in writing. ‒ five objections are raised by parliament on authorisations to grow or import gm maize or wheat. despite systematic objections, the commission continues to issue authorisations for cultivation or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu. i therefore voted in favour of these new objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to ban the import and placing on the market of herbicide-resistant maize. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ parliament has tabled five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos with different properties. gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity. monitoring of effects on nature is insufficient, efsa's evaluation is still minimal and also contrary to food sovereignty. in this case, i voted in favour of this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the object is to object to the placing on the market of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 for cultivation by the manufacturer dow agro sciences. the issues raised are glufosinate, which is due to be banned in 2017 (ownership is therefore useless) and the destruction of biodiversity. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the present report proposes to adopt five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos, including those from monsanto. these objections highlight the hypocrisy and double-talk of the meps of the majority groups who vote against what they promise to their constituents. i voted in favour of these objections.
in writing. ‒ the object of this objection is to oppose the placing on the market of gmo 1507. i object to this because the european commission has respected its mandate within the framework of the implementing powers granted to it by the european parliament and the council. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take into account the many precautionary measures adopted by the european legislator in relation to the authorisation of new products to be placed on the market, as well as the positive scientific opinion given by the european food safety authority. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to refuse the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seed for cultivation. the objection is based on an allegation that the commission exceeded the implementing powers conferred on it by this authorisation. however, the commission has complied with the existing procedure for the authorisation of gmos. it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not hazardous to human and animal health and the environment. i therefore believe that this objection is unwarranted and merely reflects a desire to ban all gmos systematically, whereas this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed companies that hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorizations for the use of genetically modified maize 1507 seeds tolerating glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organization (who). in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking it into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who support the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union.
in writing. ‒ we are witnessing a game of swings: the commission insists on encouraging the cultivation and import of gmos in our countries by its authorisations, and sweeping away the equally stubborn opposition of parliament. all this is of little use, and it is not enough to relieve the parliamentarians who are holding the commission in their power by the tape of their responsibility. opposition to the seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 must be unanimous. i voted for it because i believe in it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection on the renewal of the authorisation of genetically modified maize seeds by the european commission. in authorising the placing on the market for cultivation or marketing purposes, the european commission duly followed the procedure by taking into account the analysis of the european food safety authority. it is also important to remember that genetically modified products on french display or in french crops are subject to authorisation by the french state and not by the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity. the european parliament agreed to vote on it, which shows that the commission's initiative was harmful. i want france to regain its food sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted for that objection.
in writing. - i voted for this text. parliament raised five objections to authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc. we therefore support these objections and, in this case, the objection concerning the placing on the market of seeds of genetically modified maize 1507.
in writing. ‒ the report opposes the commission's decision to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seed tc1507. the tc1507 variety of the american pioneer group gives resistance to certain insects (maize pyrale). but also tolerance to herbicides containing ammonium glufosinate, a substance classified as toxic to reproduction and whose use on maize is banned in the eu. the report criticises the assessment made by the european food safety authority (efsa). it points in particular to the arbitrary introduction of the concept of an 'acceptable local mortality' level for non-target lepidopteran species. the corn is known to kill insects other than the corn borer, which it is supposed to be specialized in. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of this objection, as i did of the other four.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking it into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the authorisation of gmo maize 1507, the placing or not of which on the market is a matter for the member states, because it is based on the false argument that the commission exceeded its powers by authorising this maize. the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. it then proposed this authorisation of gmos to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. - i voted against that objection. the european commission did not exceed its powers and respected the procedure for authorising gmos, thanks in particular to the opinion of the european food safety authority. it should be recalled that this proposal for marketing authorisation was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it. therefore, the objections used by political groups such as the greens have no real effect because they concern implementing acts. more generally, i would like to point out that france prohibits the cultivation of gmos, even though it imports them.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for cultivation or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union. i vote in favour of that objection.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the authorisation of the cultivation of the famous monsanto maize 810 because it is allowing the mutation of a species of wild maize, theocynto, ancestor of maize grown in europe, present in spain since 2009, which the spanish authorities have found in both gmo and so-called conventional fields. we are in a situation of cross-contamination.
in writing. ‒ five objections are raised by parliament on authorisations to grow or import gm maize or wheat. despite systematic objections, the commission continues to issue authorisations for cultivation or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu. i therefore voted in favour of these new objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection not to renew the authorisation for the import and placing on the market of a maize resistant to herbicides. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ parliament has tabled five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos with different properties. gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity. monitoring of effects on nature is insufficient, efsa's evaluation is still minimal and also contrary to food sovereignty. in this case, i voted in favour of this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the object here is to object to the renewal of the authorization of genetically modified maize mon810 seeds by the manufacturer monsanto. the problem raised concerns the destruction of biodiversity, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the present report proposes to adopt five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos, including those from monsanto. these objections highlight the hypocrisy and double-talk of the meps of the majority groups who vote against what they promise to their constituents. i voted in favour of these objections.
in writing. ‒ the object of the objection is to prevent the placing on the market of the gmo mon 810. i object to this because the european commission has respected its mandate within the framework of the implementing powers granted to it by the european parliament and the council. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take into account the many precautionary measures adopted by the european legislator in relation to the authorisation of new products to be placed on the market, as well as the positive scientific opinion given by the european food safety authority. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to refuse the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation. the objection is based on an allegation that the commission exceeded the implementing powers conferred on it by this authorisation. however, the commission has complied with the existing procedure for the authorisation of gmos. it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not hazardous to human and animal health and the environment. i therefore believe that this objection is unwarranted and merely reflects a desire to ban all gmos systematically, whereas this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed companies that hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the european commission to withdraw its authorisations for the use of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds tolerating glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who). in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the opinion of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking it into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu.
in writing. ‒ we are witnessing a game of swings: the commission insists on encouraging the cultivation and import of gmos in our countries by its authorisations, and sweeping away the equally stubborn opposition of parliament. all this is of little use, and it is not enough to relieve the parliamentarians who are holding the commission in their power by the tape of their responsibility. it seems to me self-evident that i am opposed to any renewal of the authorization of mon 810 seeds. i voted for it because i believe in it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection on the renewal of the authorisation of genetically modified maize seeds by the european commission. in authorising the placing on the market for cultivation or marketing purposes, the european commission duly followed the procedure by taking into account the analysis of the european food safety authority. it is also important to remember that genetically modified products on french display or in french crops are subject to authorisation by the french state and not by the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity. the european parliament agreed to vote on it, which shows that the commission's initiative was harmful. i want france to regain its food sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of that objection.
in writing. - i voted for this text. parliament raised five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc. we therefore support these objections and, in this case, the objection concerning the renewal of the authorization of genetically modified maize mon 810 seed.
in writing. ‒ the report opposes the commission's decision to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds. the mon 810 variety developed by the us group monsanto has an added gene - cry1ab - which gives it resistance to pests that target this cereal - and in particular corn borer. and as a result of its use, pyrale is observed, developing resistance to cry1ab, which requires the use of products with more aggressive chemical formulations and in larger quantities. in addition, cases of cross-contamination of an invasive plant with bt toxin have been found in the eu territory, which is evidence of its danger to the ecosystem. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of this objection, as i did of the other four.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking it into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the renewal of the authorisation of the gmo maize mon 810, the placing on the market of which is a matter for the member states, because it is based on the false argument that the commission exceeded its powers by authorising this maize. the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. it then proposed this authorisation of gmos to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. - i voted against that objection. the european commission did not exceed its powers and respected the procedure for authorising gmos, thanks in particular to the opinion of the european food safety authority. it should be recalled that this proposal for a marketing authorisation was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it. therefore, the objections used by political groups such as the greens have no real effect because they concern implementing acts. more generally, i would like to point out that france prohibits the cultivation of gmos, even though it imports them.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union. i vote in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the import of mon 810 maize, as i oppose its marketing authorisation, because of the risks of cross-contamination with bt toxin mentioned. bt maize is a variety that has been genetically modified to resist the main corn pests, including the corn borer.
in writing. ‒ five objections are raised by parliament on authorisations to grow or import gm maize or wheat. despite systematic objections, the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who support the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of these new objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection not to renew the authorisation for the import and placing on the market of a maize resistant to herbicides. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ parliament has tabled five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos with different properties. gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity. monitoring of the effects on nature is insufficient, efsa's assessment is still minimal and also contrary to food sovereignty. in this case, i voted in favour of this objection to the renewal of the authorisation of genetically modified maize mon 810.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the object here is to object to the renewal of the authorization of genetically modified maize mon810 products by the manufacturer monsanto. the problem raised concerns the destruction of biodiversity, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the present report proposes to adopt five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos, including those from monsanto. these objections highlight the hypocrisy and double-talk of the meps of the majority groups who vote against what they promise to their constituents. i voted in favour of these objections.
in writing. ‒ the object of the objection is to prevent the placing on the market of the gmo mon 810. i object to this because the european commission has respected its mandate within the framework of the implementing powers granted to it by the european parliament and the council. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take into account the many precautionary measures adopted by the european legislator in relation to the authorisation of new products to be placed on the market, as well as the positive scientific opinion given by the european food safety authority. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to refuse the placing on the market of genetically modified maize seeds for cultivation. the objection is based on an allegation that the commission exceeded the implementing powers conferred on it by this authorisation. however, the commission has followed the existing procedure for the authorisation of gmos. it first requested an analysis from the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify that the maize seed was not harmful to human and animal health and the environment. i therefore believe that this objection is unwarranted and merely reflects a desire to ban all gmos systematically, whereas this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking it into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu.
in writing. ‒ we are witnessing a game of swings: the commission insists on encouraging the cultivation and import of gmos in our countries by its authorisations, and sweeping away the equally stubborn opposition of parliament. all this is of little use and is not enough to relieve the responsibility of the members of parliament who are holding the commission in its power. it is up to us to fight the authorization of products from the genetically modified mon 810 maize. i voted for it because i believe in it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection on the renewal of the product authorisation for genetically modified maize granted by the european commission. in authorising the placing on the market for cultivation or marketing purposes, the european commission duly followed the procedure by taking into account the analysis of the european food safety authority. it is also important to remember that genetically modified products on french display or in french crops are subject to authorisation by the french state and not by the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity. the european parliament agreed to vote on it, which shows that the commission's initiative was harmful. i want france to regain its food sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i therefore supported this objection.
in writing. - i voted for this text. parliament raised five objections concerning authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc. we therefore support these objections and, in this case, the objection concerning the renewal of the authorization of genetically modified maize mon 810.
in writing. ‒ the report opposes the commission's decision to authorise the placing on the market of products from the genetically modified maize mon 810. the mon 810 variety developed by the us group monsanto has an added gene - cry1ab - which gives it resistance to pests that target this cereal - and in particular corn borer. and, because of its use, the appearance of pyrale is observed, developing resistance to cry1 ab, which requires the use of products with more aggressive chemical formulations and in larger quantities. in addition, cases of cross-contamination of an invasive plant with bt toxin have been reported in the eu. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of this objection, as i did of the other four.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking it into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the renewal of the authorisation of the gmo maize mon 810, the placing on the market of which is a matter for the member states, because it is based on the false argument that the commission exceeded its powers by authorising this maize. the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. it then proposed this authorisation of gmos to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. - i voted against that objection. the european commission did not exceed its powers and respected the procedure for authorising gmos, thanks in particular to the opinion of the european food safety authority. it should be recalled that this proposal for marketing authorisation was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it. therefore, these objections, used by political groups such as the greens, have no real effect because they concern implementing acts. more generally, i would like to point out that france prohibits the cultivation of gmos, even though it imports them.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who support the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union. i vote in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the import of cotton 28124236. it should be recalled once again that the rules on the authorisation of gmos are not democratic, as jean-claude juncker himself has admitted. it is therefore up to parliament to play its part in promoting transparency and democracy. no new proposal for rules on the import of gmos appears to be proposed by the commission. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. our objective remains the same: no genetically modified food will be validated by the european parliament in committee procedure until the commission has proposed a new framework for the import of gmos, in order to take account of the fact that gmos are the majority in europe. it is a question of democracy and also a way of enforcing the european parliament's choices in the institutional game.
in writing. ‒ five objections are raised by parliament concerning authorisations for the cultivation or import of gm maize or wheat. despite systematic objections, the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu. i therefore voted in favour of these new objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to ban the import and placing on the market of herbicide-resistant cotton. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ parliament has tabled five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos with different properties. gmos tolerating one or two herbicides that are about to be banned are of little interest and, moreover, are dangerous for biodiversity. monitoring of the effects on nature is insufficient, efsa's assessment is still minimal and also contrary to food sovereignty. in this case, i voted in favour of this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. the object is to object to the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 by the manufacturer down agro sciences. the issues raised are glufosinate, which is due to be banned in 2017 (so ownership is useless), glyphosate which is carcinogenic and the destruction of biodiversity. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the present report proposes to adopt five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos from, among others, monsanto. these objections highlight the hypocrisy and double-talk of the meps of the majority groups, who vote against what they promise to their constituents. i voted in favour of these objections.
in writing. ‒ the object of this objection is to oppose the placing on the market of the gmo mon 88913. i object to this because the european commission has respected its mandate within the framework of the implementing powers granted to it by the european parliament and the council. i regret that this ideologically motivated resolution does not take into account the many precautionary measures adopted by the european legislator in relation to the authorisation of new products to be placed on the market, as well as the positive scientific opinion given by the european food safety authority. for these reasons, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to refuse the placing on the market of a product containing genetically modified cotton for marketing purposes. the objection is based on an allegation that the commission exceeded the implementing powers conferred on it by this authorisation. however, the commission has followed the existing procedure for the authorisation of gmos. it requested a prior analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) to verify the absence of danger to human and animal health and the environment. i therefore believe that this objection is unwarranted and merely reflects a desire to ban all gmos systematically, whereas this is a matter for the member states.
in writing. currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the seed growers who hold the gmo have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. the european parliament has chosen to use its right of objection to ask the commission to withdraw its authorisations for the use of genetically modified maize seeds tolerant of glyphosate, a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who). in the future, the authorisation process for gmos will need to be revised, which should not be possible without the support of a qualified majority of member states and the approval of the parliament.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking it into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the eu.
in writing. ‒ we are witnessing a game of swings: the commission insists on encouraging the cultivation and import of gmos in our countries by its authorisations, and sweeping away the equally stubborn opposition of parliament. all this is of little use, and it is not enough to relieve the parliamentarians who are holding the commission in their power by the tape of their responsibility. i repeat my refusal to place genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 x 3006-210-23 x mon 88913 on the market. i voted for it because i believe in it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton by the european commission. in authorising the placing on the market for cultivation or marketing purposes, the commission duly followed the procedure by taking into account the analysis of the european food safety authority. it is also important to remember that genetically modified products on french shelves or in french crops are subject to authorisation by the french state, not by the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is against the use of a gmo that is harmful to biodiversity. the european parliament agreed to vote on it, which shows that the commission's initiative was harmful. i want france to regain its food sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of that objection.
in writing. - i voted for this text. parliament raised five objections to authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. the different properties of these gmos pose several problems: carcinogenic herbicides, insecticides leading to the destruction of biodiversity, etc. we therefore support these objections and, in this case, the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton technically known as 281-24-236 x 3006-210-23 x mon 88913.
in writing. ‒ the report opposes the commission's decision to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913. these cotton varieties developed by dowagroscience and monsanto are tolerant of glyphosate, a toxic and possibly carcinogenic substance, and of ammonium glufosinate, which is reproductive toxic. these cottons are also resistant to lepidopterans via the addition of the cry1 f and cry1 ac genes. this has the long-term effect of increasing the tolerance of lepidopterans to these proteins and leads to the use of increasingly potent plant protection products in ever-increasing quantities. i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission continues to issue authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. i voted in favour of this objection, as i did of the other four.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for crops or imports of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who maintain the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the union. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the authorisation of gmo cotton 281-24-236 x 3006-210-23 x mon 88913, the placing on the market or not of which is a matter for the member states, because it is based on the false argument that the commission exceeded its powers by authorising this maize. the commission has fully complied with the procedure by requesting the european food safety authority to carry out a study on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. it then proposed this authorisation of gmos to the council, which did not reject it.
in writing. - i voted against that objection. the european commission did not exceed its powers and respected the procedure for authorising gmos, thanks in particular to the opinion of the european food safety authority. it should be recalled that this proposal for marketing authorisation was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it. therefore, these objections, used by political groups such as the greens, have no real effect because they concern implementing acts. more generally, i would like to point out that france prohibits the cultivation of gmos, even though it imports them.
in writing. ‒ despite systematic objections, the commission persists in issuing authorisations for the cultivation or import of gmos. parliament is still objecting, but in vain, because the commission is not taking this into account. these objections help to expose the hypocrisy of the majority parliamentarians (who support the commission) in the face of the totalitarianism of the european union. i vote in favour of this objection.
mr president, i note that we have three votes on tuesday's agenda on the waiver of parliamentary immunity of colleagues: mr le pen, mr borghezio and mrs collins. these are extremely serious and extremely important decisions. i would like to point out once again that it is not foreseen that these questions can be discussed in plenary. i am very sorry about that because in all the other parliaments i know and, in any case, in my national parliament, that would not be the case. the absence of debate means that it is not even possible to make one's point of view known by means of an oral explanation of vote. i consider this to be a very unfortunate and very serious situation which is relatively new. this was not the case in the past in this parliament, where i have participated in many debates on questions of the waiver or maintenance of parliamentary immunity or the guarantee of it. this reflects, in a general way, the restrictions on the rights and protection of members for which, i would remind you, i have already obtained the judgment of the luxembourg court of justice against our institution. i got it badly, but i got it unequivocally in the past. i would therefore like to see these questions moved to the next part-session so that a debate can be opened on each of these immunities.
mr president, i obviously disagree. i think we have a lot of work that requires us to continue on thursday afternoon. i would also like to ask the following question: if our agenda allows us to shorten the week of sessions in strasbourg and if the timetable of our parliament is not sufficiently busy, should we not consider finally abolishing the additional mini-sessions in brussels?
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade, i am pleased that we have been able to take part in the examination of customs matters normally reserved for the imco committee. this approach has been both effective and complementary. it is important to take account of the place of the internal market in a global context, because our partners have already pointed out the inconsistencies of our internal market. we can learn from them. although the customs union is considered to be the backbone of the single market, there is still no integrated approach. the idea of approximating the definitions and penalties for customs infringements is a good one. especially in 2016. we should say: "it's about time". however, the issue is caught between the exclusive competence of the european union in customs matters and the principle of subsidiarity of the judicial or administrative sanctions of the states. this balance must therefore be preserved. the lack of vision on the part of some politicians in europe, who do not understand the challenges we face today, is appalling. only the european union can develop a common approach to implementing customs legislation, which does not please mr magnette, who may seek to complicate the trade facilitation we are putting in place. more seriously, we must put in place a grand strategy that gives a direction, a course to the economic world of the european union. this type of initiative is useful in bringing coherence to both the internal market and our external trade. our customs are doing a great job. they must be able to rely on a flexible structure and a rigorous framework, which is not uniform across europe. let us support this kind of initiative, whose aims of simplification, harmonisation, fairness and firmness must be emphasised in order to give a better understanding of the challenges facing the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the fictitious rapporteurs with whom the work on this dossier has been very effective and very fruitful. this was all the more difficult because it was a very technical subject on which compromises were sometimes difficult to obtain, but we really worked in a very constructive spirit. i think we can be happy with the result. we welcomed the commission's proposal because the customs union is the backbone of the internal market, the other side of the internal market. it is one of the first harmonized policies of the european union and the adoption of the customs code is a signal of even greater integration in this area. however, even though this is a highly integrated policy of the european union, inconsistencies remain, particularly with regard to sanctions. the paradox is that the rules may be the same, but depending on the country in which you carry out your customs formalities, if you break the rules you may be liable to penalties ranging from a fine in one member state to a prison sentence in another. it is clear that this situation of inconsistency and disparities creates opportunities for customs competition between states, not in terms of rules but of the sanctions attached to them. therefore, to prevent this circumvention of the common rules of the internal market, which leads to a loss of several hundred million euros due to fraud, we believe it is absolutely necessary to harmonize the sanctions. in this respect, i think we have reached a very good compromise which avoids unfair competition between member states. we have clarified and strengthened the legal basis. we have clarified definitions, in particular the notions of negligence or intentional fault. we have also clarified a number of points on the nature of the sanctions. we have removed the criminal sanctions which remain the exclusive competence of the member states, who can introduce them if they wish. finally, we have brought the sanctions and thresholds into line with the directive on the protection of financial interests in the european union. i welcome this harmonization. as regards the method of determining the amount of the penalties, i also think that the compromise we have reached is satisfactory, with a floor for serious infringements and a method of calculation based on the amount of the duties to ensure proportionality of the penalty. but i think we could have gone a little further on this point, by specifying certain criteria to ensure the deterrent side of the instrument. we also support the possibility for member states to introduce sanctions other than fines, such as the suspension of economic operator status or the revocation of an import authorization. in addition, the commission proposal was strengthened by the introduction of a distinction between major and minor infringements, based on objective and contextual factors, in order to protect smes whose infringements are allegedly unintentional due to a lack of knowledge of customs rules. finally, we welcome the introduction of the amicable settlement procedure and the maintenance of the four-year limitation period. the harmonization of customs sanctions is clearly essential to better combat fraud, to better guarantee compliance with european rules and also to better feed the budget of the european union, for which customs duties are one of the few own resources. in this context, it is regrettable that the work has not yet begun in the council. this is a case which unfortunately illustrates the contradictions which are too frequent between the discourse of the member states in general and the positions taken in the council. in the case of customs sanctions, as in the case of other policies, namely fiscal or social policies, it is clear that the lack of harmonization which leads to a situation of competition between states is harmful, undermines the application of common rules and deprives citizens of legitimate resources. so parliament now has a strong, coherent position which i think is a good basis for work. it is now up to the council to take up its responsibilities and move towards harmonizing customs sanctions. i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues again for the excellent work they have done and i hope that the council will make rapid progress on this matter.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the aim of this directive is to establish a common legal framework for the member states of the european union in order to eliminate the disparities between the various national systems which are applied. in other words, it is a question of harmonizing the national application of customs legislation in order to complete the implementation of the customs union. national disparities in the implementation of this customs union do affect the level playing field in that they provide an advantage to those who do not comply with the legislation in a member state with a more lenient customs sanctions regime. the risk to infringers therefore varies according to the gateway to the single internal market. these distortions of competition are indeed commonplace in this single internal market, whether they are social, environmental, financial, economic or political in nature. the french experience this bitterly every day. in short, the scheme is simple. member states continue to transpose european directives into national law in accordance with their own interests. while i see this as a patriotic act, the rapporteur explains that some member states are dragging their feet. for the commission and the european institutions, however, it is a mortal sin. on the contrary, we need more europe. despite the economic crisis in the euro zone, the widening of the migration crisis, the clear rejection of this concept of european integration by the peoples of europe, as evidenced by brexit or the rejection of ceta by belgium, the juncker commission is still advocating more and more integration. as the proverb says, errare humanum est, perseverare diabolicum, to err is human, to be stubborn is diabolic. this dream of a harmonized and homogeneous single market is being shattered by economic, political, geographical and therefore national realities. i think that's great news for the future.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for once we must acknowledge that a member of the european parliament has made a report which attempts to approximate reality. it's rare enough to be highlighted. it must be said that, as america has exceptionally revised its policy, we had no choice but to follow - this is what we do best - the united states, like a dependent europe obeying the master. however, it seems that this kind of relief is not to everyone's liking. there are several of my colleagues who complain and try to harm iran and the relations our countries must have with this great country. the war-goers are here. the more they come from smaller powers, the more arrogant they are. we are told of iran's military capabilities that are of concern to us. the mercenary armies that saudi arabia is sending to yemen do not, however, seem to worry us. two weights, two measures. we hear about iran's toughness on drug trafficking which is shocking, but do we know that there are between 1.2 and 3 million drug addicts in iran out of a population that does not reach 80 million? do we know that iran has lost nearly 4,000 customs officers in its war on drugs? finally, do we remember that iran is a sovereign state that can decide its own criminal justice system? two weights, two measures also if we look at turkey. finally, we are told about human rights as if it were a mantra, but are we as indignant about qatar and saudi arabia? iran is an indispensable partner. by calling into question international agreements between states, we risk once again threatening regional and international stability. let's support this report! it's very important because it's going in the right direction. iran will make its contribution to regional stability and israel must be assured of the full support of parliament and our states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating contains some rather interesting points, but in some respects it does not go to the end of its logic. it is not about giving a blank cheque to the islamic republic of iran, far from it. however, once we pay particular attention to the essential point of the fight against the islamic state, it is clear that iran is becoming a vital partner in the fight against terrorism, which is unfortunately not the case for a number of european states which have remained silent in the fight against the islamic state. i would also like to warn against the hypocritical initiatives of the united states which, when it comes to certain european companies, wants to maintain an embargo. once iran has fully and effectively implemented the geneva agreements, sanctions against iran must be lifted in a correlative and proportionate manner.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laura ferrara, for this report and all the shadows and associated committees for their contribution. the commission has closely followed the discussions, as well as the work of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money-laundering in the past and the parliament resolution that followed. it was a source of inspiration for the commission’s european agenda on security last year. the agenda on security identifies three priorities: the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, the fight against organised crime, and the fight against cybercrime. we must continue to move ahead on all three priorities of the agenda on security, and your report points up some of the key actions. the commission, together with parliament and the council, have made significant progress on key files relevant for the important areas covered by the report. to name but a few: the adoption of the european union pnr directive and adoption of the new european union data protection package in april earlier this year; the new europol regulation adopted in may; and the new cepol regulation providing for better opportunities to train law enforcement that entered into force in july 2016. good progress has been made on the commission’s proposal of last year for a directive on combatting terrorism, and we should be able to reach an agreement before the end of this year. the action plan on wildlife trafficking adopted in february this year and, last but not least, advancing negotiations on a european public prosecutor’s office to defend the financial interests of the european union, which will enable eurojust to focus on the fight against terrorist threats or other serious organised crimes. there is not enough time to comment on each recommendation of the report at hand. therefore, let me stress the ongoing and planned work in support of some of them. on money laundering: the fight against terrorist financing and money laundering is a high priority for the commission. a new proposal to reinforce the fourth anti-money laundering directive was tabled on 5 july 2016. as announced in the action plan on strengthening the fight against terrorist financing, we would propose by the end of the year a number of legislative proposals, such as a proposal for a directive on criminal offences and sanctions for money laundering, a proposal on illegal cash movement, a proposal on mutual recognition of confiscation and freezing orders of criminal assets to ensure efficient cross-border cooperation. on the links between organised crime and terrorism, the commission action plan on terrorist financing, adopted on 2 february 2016, acknowledges the close link between terrorist financing and organised crime. it announces a wide range of measures to cut terrorists off from their sources of revenue and to trace them through financial activities. on the call for the european union framework on corruption, the commission takes very seriously the fight against corruption and will continue to work with member states’ authorities, including on experience-sharing in relation to integrity policies. this goes in parallel with our work in the framework of the european semester of economic governance. at this stage the commission is working with member states to follow up and take forward the conclusions of the first anti—corruption report and will inform parliament by the end of the year how the commission sees this work progressing. to conclude, the commission welcomes the report and will take its recommendations closely into account. we will continue to update parliament and the council twice a year, as foreseen in the european agenda on security.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would first of all like to thank in particular the fictitious rapporteurs who accompanied me on this report, their assistants and the group advisers and marion, my own collaborator, without whom this report could not have been made. we have been working there for almost a year, and their support has been invaluable to me despite the many vicissitudes we have gone through, the worst of which was what i would call the test of languages. in the droi sub-commission, translations are partly outsourced, which must be relatively expensive; we should expect a service rendered to the highest standards. it was a nightmare. we discovered that some of them were machine translations. i therefore urge the ad hoc committees of the european parliament to investigate this matter. this report deals with human rights and migration in third countries and therefore does not deal with the union's migration policies. our parliament has produced a report on this subject, that of mrs metsola and mrs kyenge, which was adopted by a large majority, and is preparing another on foreign policy. we have therefore focused on the situation in third countries, with the aim of putting migration back into its global context. this report emphasizes the evolution of migration policies, which are increasingly globalized but also regionalised, and their causes, which are increasingly multiple and complex: 244 million international migrants, or 3.3% of the world population, compared with 2.9% in 1990; 80% of movements now take place between countries with common borders, and increasingly south-south. most countries in the world today are countries of origin, transit and destination, including europe. these migrations increasingly involve women and children, including isolated minors and, therefore, vulnerable persons who are entitled to special protection on the increasingly dangerous routes of migration. they are also graduating more and more: already 59 million in 2010, and it is africa that is paying the heaviest price for this brain drain. the question of refugees is of particular importance in this report. the number of uprooted, refugees and displaced people now stands at 65 million according to the unhcr, with a 10% increase in one year, mainly in the number of displaced people. in our proposals we wanted to start with respect for human rights, as they are recognised and protected by international conventions, and to see how the european union, in its policies of partnership with third countries, can act to ensure better respect for human rights, including by setting an example on its territory and enforcing ad hoc international conventions. the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families has not been signed by any member state of the european union. all migrants have rights, whatever their situation, as the un special rapporteur on migration has repeatedly said. respect for human rights means, for example, refusing forced readmission of migrants to countries where they risk ill-treatment and torture; refusing mass expulsions and refoulements that are contrary to international law; the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and to the principle of subsidiarity. these are just a few examples. such a wish may seem like a pious wish. some here say that this report is too progressive. we have seen in the foreign affairs committee that the european union should do more in this area, working with its main partners to implement legislation that respects the rights of migrants, starting with the right of asylum. we believe that the eidhr is a good instrument for moving forward and that it is time to adopt specific guidelines for the rights of migrants. we all know that migration issues are increasingly taking up space in the european union's dialogues with third countries. we also know that an increasing proportion of these policies are beyond the control of parliament. this is why this report proposes, in particular, to assess and monitor all agreements and funds in this area, starting with the eu-turkey agreement and the khartoum and rabat processes. there are many other subjects in this report which i cannot go into and i regret that. i would like to conclude by thanking all those who have contributed, and especially all those who have contributed, since the vast majority of the fictional rapporteurs were women.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on the docks of fishing ports, news travels faster than on the airwaves, whether it is criticism of the latest regulations or comment on the prices of the day's catch. listening to the docks often helps us identify possible policy failures. for several years now, however, in every country of the european union, the same complaint has been heard on the docks: that the control of fishing should be less strict in neighbouring countries than in one's own country. a rumor never meant that there was any truth to it, but its persistence made it worth investigating. i have therefore conducted the inquiry with the support of my colleagues in the committee on fisheries of the european parliament and have drawn up an own-initiative report on this basis. this feeling of inequity due to the differentiated application of the regulation by country raises the question not only of the efficiency but also of the credibility of the european union. the regulation is supposed to apply to everyone and it is not acceptable that it does not apply in the same way. however, compliance with the rule is a condition for the results of sustainable and modern fishing. in this report i have tried to analyse the shortcomings in the regulation and its application, the shortcomings which lead to this feeling of injustice. the second objective of this report is to propose solutions to harmonize the control of the common fisheries policy, which, i would remind you, is supposed to be one of the most integrated policies in europe. i am of course pleased with the constructive work carried out in committee, where everyone's contribution has made it possible to draw up an almost complete picture of the situation of control in europe. i am of course particularly grateful to the fictitious rapporteurs. this report highlights the chameleon nature of the control regulation in that it applies differently depending on the colour of the country, whether it is the scope of the control regulation or the procedures and strategies. the report also reveals that each member state has its own standards for training inspectors, that fishermen are not trained in the same way and that there is not always any training for inspection. the overly limited mandate of the fisheries control agency, whose main role should be to harmonise practices, is also highlighted. it therefore appears appropriate to establish a european training course for controllers and to develop a single control reference framework. training for fishermen should also be strengthened. the procedures should also be europeanised and the role of the vigo agency strengthened by increasing its resources and broadening its scope. i also believe that it is urgent that the control procedures should be transparent and standardised, and that the various control bodies should be coordinated within the same geographical area. but the most serious dysfunction is that member states may transpose the regulation differently because of a large number of optional provisions within the 'control' regulation itself and the inapplicability of some of them, which can lead to a subjective interpretation of controllers. it will therefore be essential to remove the optional entries and to clarify and simplify existing community legislation when the next revision of the control regulation is carried out. court procedures and penalties also differ across the union. for the same offence, the sanction may be of an administrative or criminal nature. it seems legitimate to implement a regulation in the future where the same penalty will be applied for the same offence and to introduce incentive measures. the instruments, tools and financial means used to carry out the checks also vary from one member state to another. the most urgent point, according to the auditors we have heard from all the countries, is the data and the compatibility of the instruments. the databases used by member states are not always shared, but they are essential for risk assessment and control strategy. i will close with the issue of pleasure, which will be put to the test during this week's votes. if we are to achieve a balance between fishing rights and the state of the fishery resources, it is essential that this activity also be controlled. we are a few steps away from the revision of the fisheries control regulation announced by the commission. i have no doubt that the recommendations adopted by parliament will be taken into account in the future proposal.
mr president, after brexit, the european union is no more than a paper tiger to which people and nations openly resist. the hungarian people say 'no' to his policy of distributing migrants. the french and german people are paralyzing the tafta negotiations. today it is the turn of wallonia - three million inhabitants - to play the village of asterix by blocking the adoption of ceta. it is blocking this agreement because it does not want the global and inhumane free trade it embodies. it is blocking it because it does not want multinationals to be able to attack the states in front of a tribunal of fifteen ultra-liberal judges who will be paid by them. i express my support for the walloon people who, on this occasion, embody the soul of european freedom. the european ogre has revealed its totalitarian nature by disregarding its resistance and by issuing an ultimatum. hold on, my fellow walloons! in the face of the european union, you are reviving the spirit of the ancient greeks who repelled the onslaught of the persian empire.
i have an announcement to make in agreement with the political groups. i submit to you this proposal for an amendment to the agenda. the report by mr negrescu on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, following a request from estonia, is added to the vote on wednesday, as it was adopted by the committee on budgets last night. are there any objections? there is no such thing.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on the establishment of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (2015/2254(inl)) (a8-0283/2016).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, article 7 of the treaty on european union provides for a mechanism of sanctions against member states which do not respect human rights. the report in 't veld today seeks to complete it. this report raises both a legal and a political problem. the legal problem is that it overturns article 7. as explained by the council's legal service in an opinion of 27 may 2014, article 7 gives the council, and it alone, the power to find that a member state is violating human rights. the in 't veld report, however, ignores this exclusive competence of the council by seeking to give the brussels commission a competing power of assessment by adopting reports and recommendations. on the other hand, the in 't veld report raises a political problem in particular, by dealing a new blow to the sovereignty of states. it allows experts without democratic legitimacy to rate states as children according to three grades of rating symbolized in its initial presentation by a game of three colors: green for good students, yellow for those who can do better and red for those who must be punished. the member states which must be punished are, of course, those which dare to resist the dictates of the european union, in the spirit of the report in 't veld. the report does not even hide this fact, since it openly aims to punish two states: hungary, guilty of resisting the eu's migration policy, and poland, guilty of refusing to let its family policy be dictated by the lgbti lobby. the report in 't veld is therefore a further step in the forced march towards the sovietization of the union. that is why i tabled an amendment rejecting this liberty-killing text.
madam president, mrs in 't veld's report is based on a formidable contradiction. it is a question of monitoring european democracies in the name of democracy, of having legitimately elected governments monitored by experts of suspect legitimacy, all the while putting in place, in the name of the treaties, a mechanism which is in itself, as has just been said, a violation of the treaties. it is the brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty, revisited, supported by the so-called liberals, the greens, the socialists, the christian democrats, the communists, all united. mr juncker, i believe, said after the victory of syriza in greece in january 2015: "there can be no democratic choice against the european treaties", making it clear that no change of government could induce a change of policy. the point at issue today is hungary and poland, not because human rights are being violated daily or systematically, but to punish these two countries for electing governments that are sceptical of the benefits of the insane european policy of forcibly redistributing millions of so-called refugees. the real threat to democracy is the european institutions, which disregard the voice of the people who do not accept to submit to the europe of brussels and globalism. yesterday, the parliaments voted again on texts rejected by the peoples. today, when these same parliaments take account of the aspirations of the citizens, they are told that their only option is to vote 'yes' to an obscure free trade agreement negotiated by the commission. i think tomorrow or the day after, maybe, we'll send nato tanks first to restore order... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, when we see the change in citizens' trust in the european institutions, we begin to dream of another europe based no longer on free and undistorted competition but on respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights, that is to say, on the so-called values of the european union. however, in practice, as much as the commission is quick to remind portugal and greece in particular of the rules of the budgetary pact, and now those of free trade in wallonia, when poland and hungary, to name the most spectacular examples, are sitting on fundamental rights, the commission is hesitant to initiate the slightest infringement procedure. in short, we can sit on democracy and even help to flout it, but we cannot touch the dogma of ultraliberalism. this is the famous copenhagen dilemma. this report makes concrete proposals, but i fear that it will not be followed up any more than the tavares report, and i regret that, mrs in 't veld. so, yes, mr timmermans, let us ask the ngos what they think and let us act! do something! let no more states flout the rule of law!
madam president, seeing the peoples of europe slipping out of your control, from england to hungary, you are infantilizing them and deciding to place them under guardianship. your so-called mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights will put our states under the control of so-called independent experts from the council of europe, an organisation which includes exemplary democracies such as turkey and albania. you talk to us all the time about democracy, but it's just a mantra you repeat to accuse your opponents of your own filth; the opponents you call populists because they speak for the people you no longer want to listen to. democracy is the power of the people. democracy is the right of the people to govern themselves. but you want to abolish article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights on subsidiarity and national sovereignty. on sunday our former colleague, mr duda, now president of poland, celebrated with the hungarian prime minister the 60th anniversary of the uprising in budapest against the communist dictatorship. today the time has come for the peoples of eastern and western europe to rise up against the tyranny of brussels.
madam president, madam rapporteur, you are calling for the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it would be more honest to call things by their name rather than to give these basic notions. you invoke the rule of law but describe the interference of the european union - an interference increasingly rejected by the peoples of europe. you call for the strengthening of democracy in europe, but you organise the subjugation of everyone to tyrannical whims. do you really think that you are strengthening democracy by appointing a group of experts to judge whether a particular law passed by sovereign national parliaments is in line with your ideal of democracy? the poles and the hungarians are cold and reject your tutelage. is it your idea of democracy to appoint turkish judges to decide the fate of our nations? this text, ladies and gentlemen, is a betrayal of the peoples, their culture and their history. it is a betrayal of the mission that we have in this assembly, which is to serve and not to enslave. do not submit to the whole of our people your fantasies, the fantasies of so few. if that were your choice, it would be a dangerous and disturbing drift. this legislative initiative must end up in your garbage, commissioner timmermans.
madam president, each country that becomes a member of the european union undertakes to respect the famous copenhagen criteria enshrined in the european treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. but it cannot forget them the day after it joins, because the union of values and of law is not at the end of the road. the rule of law is not a cosmetic principle but a cornerstone on which the european union is built. however, the commission does not have the means to ensure that the rule of law is respected at all times by its member states. the mechanism proposed by sophia in 't veld, which i fully support, seeks to fill this gap by establishing a systematic monitoring of the protection of fundamental rights within the union. it is not a question of sanctioning any particular state but of thinking about the creation of a positive europe, one which is open to dialogue and protection. finally, this report is not a legislative text with binding legal effects but a political initiative to send a strong message to the member states and the commission. fundamental values and rights cannot be compromised.
in writing. i have heard my colleagues denouncing the abuses in poland and hungary and, although i share some of their concerns, i am surprised that our assembly is using exactly the methods it claims to denounce. like you, i am very much attached to the principle of separation of powers and therefore i cannot understand why the european parliament, rather than advocating the strengthening of national institutions or thinking about a more coercive and relevant use of existing european instruments, is calling for new rights that lead directly to a concentration of powers. the european parliament exists to legislate on subjects of priority for citizens: employment, the protection of our borders, the environment, reindustrialisation, economic and commercial recovery... it would be a mistake to think that he must also be the judge of liberties and the guardian of treaties. i think that this report does not respond to the demands of the citizens who are calling for stable and effective national counter-mechanisms, not for a reinforcement of systematic surveillance by european institutions in which they do not recognise themselves. therefore, if i understand the principle, i cannot support a report whose method is legally questionable and inapplicable.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this first report on progress in security has at least one merit: it is a wonderful illustration of the hypocrisy of the member states. on the exchange of information, the pnr or the 'anti-terrorism' directive, states are constantly playing a double game. last spring they told us that the pnr was urgently needed, calling us half-heartedly irresponsible. the report reveals that almost no member state has made any progress in implementing the directive. the same applies to the 'anti-terrorism' directive, which we are currently working on. while the member states are urging us to adopt it as soon as possible and believe that we do not have time to carry out an impact assessment, they want a transposition period of two years instead of one. there's no emergency except in front of the cameras. this report is welcome, but when will the commission finally decide to publish a report on the effectiveness of the existing instruments? it would be useful to know what really works rather than accumulating devices, further criminalizing behaviour and ever-expanding collection of personal data at the expense of fundamental freedoms. the report by the police monitoring committee to the belgian members of parliament already gives us some indication of the shortcomings that need to be corrected. it is not a lack of data, but a glaring lack of means. several members of the paris commando had been identified but could not be adequately followed up due to lack of personnel or transmission of information between the different services. let's not be so hard on ourselves. what we really need is to strengthen cooperation between member states and to give the judiciary and the police the additional resources they are sorely lacking.
mr president, my reference to the rules of procedure is based on article 150 of the rules of procedure and articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the immunities of the european union. mr president, i was complaining yesterday about the lack of debate in the three cases of parliamentary immunity before us. but today, it's even better, or worse. i am told that it will not even be possible to give an explanation of vote or even to express a dissenting opinion on the infamy of the committee whose role is to protect the freedom of expression of members. i therefore ask you, solemnly, to allow explanations of vote on these requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity, which are an essential point in guaranteeing the freedom of expression of members of parliament from an institution which prides itself on respect for fundamental rights and which claims to give lessons to the whole world in this field.
mr president, i thank my colleague mr gahler for his speech. i would just like to remind him that we are not the council but the european parliament; that in my report we repeat the positions of the european parliament as a whole; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament; that we are not the council but the european parliament. finally, he is a member of the foreign affairs committee. therefore, it is very late to wake up. mr gahler could have tabled amendments in the committee on foreign affairs rather than submitting us to this debate. i thank all the colleagues who supported me in this report and i regret the last-minute little shenanigans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft council implementing decision to allow denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purpose of automated searching and comparison of dna data under the prüm treaty. denmark has carried out a successful pilot project and has complied with all data protection provisions. we therefore believe that denmark is ready to take part in this treaty.
in writing. ‒ the transfer of personal data provided for in that decision may take place only after the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by that transfer. denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dna data exchange. an overall assessment report, summarising the results of the questionnaire, the evaluation visit and the pilot run concerning dna data exchange, was submitted to the council. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dna data, denmark should be authorised to receive and supply personal data. having the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in an eu system, but not wanting to cast a vote that could be considered hostile to denmark, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the exchange of dna data is essential in the deepening of crossborder cooperation to fight terrorism and crime. the pilot test with the netherlands proved to be successful and confirmed my decision.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dna data in denmark. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dna data, denmark should be authorised to receive and supply personal data. we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in an eu system, but i abstained on this vote in order not to cast a vote that would appear hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the automated data exchange of dna data in denmark. such transmission of personal data as provided for in the present decision may take place only after the transposition into national law of the general provisions on data protection in the territory of the member states concerned by such transmission. the verification shall be carried out in accordance with the above condition, in accordance with an assessment report based on a questionnaire, an assessment visit and a pilot test. denmark has thus conducted a pilot test with the netherlands. on 12 july the council concluded that denmark had implemented the general provisions on data protection and should therefore be allowed to receive and transmit personal data. since i have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data, i decided to abstain so as not to cast a hostile vote against denmark.
in writing. ‒ i advocate the virtue of caution on this issue and therefore express the strongest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in an eu system. this would mean that denmark would be allowed to receive and transmit dna data from french nationals and its own nationals. it is a matter of principle to protect the dna information of the citizens we represent. however, i do not wish to vote in a way that could be regarded as hostile to denmark. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the launch of the automated data exchange on dna data with denmark. such transmission of personal data is only possible after the implementation of the general provisions on data protection in the national law of the member state concerned. however, on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark fulfilled the necessary conditions for the transmission and receipt of such personal data. however, we have the greatest reservations about the automated exchange of dna data with the other member states of the european union. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text for the automated data exchange of dna data in denmark. in order to strengthen european cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the exchange of such dna data is an important source of information. this must, of course, be done in strict compliance with the provisions on the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the transmission of personal data may only take place after the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by the transmission. the verification shall be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, which has been successfully completed, an evaluation visit, which took place in denmark, and a pilot test, the latter of which was carried out with the netherlands. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dna data, denmark should be authorised to receive and supply personal data. we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in a european union system, but we do not wish to cast a vote which could be considered hostile to denmark as a state. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in an eu system, but we do not want to cast a vote that could be considered hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council's proposal to set up an automated data exchange for dna data in denmark as part of crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i am convinced that enhanced cooperation between national law enforcement agencies is essential to combat these phenomena which spread beyond national borders and threaten the integrity of our territories. above all, i reiterate my call for the immediate implementation of the prüm decision by all signatory states, which allows the exchange of dna data, fingerprints and vehicle registration plates.
in writing. ‒ in substance, i am opposed to the disclosure of dna data of french citizens within a european system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes authorising the exchange of dna data in denmark. in order to enhance the effectiveness of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, this authorisation was necessary. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the automated data exchange for dna data in denmark. the report finds that the country fulfils the criteria for data protection, based on an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. i have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in a european union system, but i do not want to cast a vote that could be seen as hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ this draft decision provides for the possibility of the transmission of personal data, after implementation in the national law of the states concerned. the monitoring of these provisions is carried out on the basis of a report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. in this case, denmark completed the questionnaire on data protection and dna data exchange, a pilot trial was carried out with the netherlands and an evaluation visit took place. the council therefore concluded that denmark had met the requirements laid down. however, being very reserved about the exchange of dna and personal data in an eu system, especially for french citizens, i abstained in order not to cast a vote that could have been interpreted as hostile to denmark.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the aim of this text is to secure the european parliament's agreement on the automated exchange of dna data in denmark. in reality, it is the dna data of the citizens of the member states. this report thus directly affects the security of french citizens' data. that is why we have made strong reservations. it should be noted, however, that denmark has carried out a positive pilot with the netherlands, which leads us, in addition to the diplomatic relations we have with denmark, to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to allow denmark to receive and transfer personal data of citizens, in this case dna data, from its police files with those of other member states. the legislation in force does contain a clause on data protection and limits on its use, but the shortcomings of this legislation are well known. in france, the cnil is concerned. and above all, this case is part of a general trend of recording offenders as well as european citizens and migrants. these data, for example, contained in biometric passports, are then cross-referenced with other files to determine 'profiles' of each citizen. a big brother to supposedly fight terrorism, an argument that snowden has largely demonstrated to be ineffective. it is mainly a means of increasing the amount of data on citizens to be made available to the united states. while despite the revelations of espionage the eu offers no guarantees. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this draft decision provides for the possibility of the transmission of personal data, after implementation in the national law of the states concerned. the monitoring of these provisions is carried out on the basis of a report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. in this case, denmark completed the questionnaire on data protection and dna data exchange, a pilot trial was carried out with the netherlands and an evaluation visit took place. the council therefore concluded that denmark had met the requirements laid down. however, being very reserved about the exchange of dna and personal data in an eu system, especially for french citizens, i abstained in order not to cast a vote that could have been interpreted as hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in an eu system, even though there is no reason to suspect denmark of misuse. it's better to abstain.
in writing. ‒ denmark has carried out a successful pilot trial with the netherlands on the exchange of personal data. an evaluation visit was carried out in denmark and a report was prepared by the dutch evaluation team and forwarded to the relevant council working group. however, we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in an eu system. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated dna data exchange in denmark. the european parliament, by approving the council's draft, authorises denmark to receive and share dna data with its partners in order to combat terrorism and crossborder crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i have the greatest reservations about the exchange of personal data of french citizens in an eu system, but denmark has taken a number of precautions on the subject and i respect this democratic country. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ this report validates the proposal for an implementing decision for the transmission of dna data to and from denmark. this is a major step forward in the fight against crime, and terrorism in particular. i support that decision. i will continue to monitor the situation to ensure that every means is used to strengthen our cooperation in police and judicial matters.
in writing. ‒ i would urge caution on this issue with regard to the exchange of dna data of french citizens in a system set up by the eu. this would mean that denmark would be allowed to receive and transmit dna data from french nationals and its own nationals. it is a matter of principle to protect the dna information of the citizens we represent. however, denmark is by no means a hostile country politically or geopolitically, so i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ these two reports give their approval to the automated exchange of personal data, dna and fingerprints, which are themselves increasingly recorded automatically in the states party to the prüm treaty. instead of the concerted consultation between the responsible authorities on a case-by-case basis which should be the norm, this is an automated comparison of personal data, without national safeguards. the risk of profiling is therefore increased under the pretext of combating terrorism and cross-border crime. i am opposed to the proliferation of data exchanges, especially when they are automated, and i am voting against both reports and reaffirming the need to protect the personal data of everyone living in the eu and the principles of necessity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft council implementing decision to allow denmark to receive and supply personal data for the purpose of automated searching and comparison of dna data under the prüm treaty. denmark has carried out a successful pilot project and has complied with all data protection provisions. we therefore believe that denmark is ready to take part in this treaty.
in writing. ‒ the transfer of personal data in the context of the fight against organised crime and terrorism may only take place after the implementation in the national law of the member states concerned by such transfer of the general provisions on data protection. denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data. denmark has carried out a successful pilot test with germany. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data, denmark should be authorised to receive and supply personal data. having, with my colleagues from the front national, the greatest reservations about the exchange of personal data of french citizens in an eu system, but not wanting to cast a vote that could be considered hostile to denmark, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the exchange of fingerprint data is essential in the deepening of crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crime.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in denmark. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data, denmark should be authorised to receive and supply personal data. i abstained on this vote in order not to cast a vote which would appear hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the automated data exchange of dactyloscopic data in denmark. such transfers of personal data in the context of the fight against organised crime and terrorism may take place only after the transposition into national law of the general provisions on data protection in the territory of the member states concerned by such transfers. as with dna, the verification of conditions should be carried out on the basis of an assessment report based on a questionnaire, an assessment visit and a pilot test. on 12 july the council concluded that denmark had implemented the general provisions on data protection and should therefore be authorised to receive and transmit personal data. since i have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data, i decided to abstain so as not to cast a hostile vote against denmark.
in writing. ‒ on this report on automated data exchange relating to personal data in denmark, the principle of protecting the personal data of our fellow citizens seems to me to be paramount. it is the responsibility of the state to protect such sensitive data of citizens. while it is important that targeted exchanges take place in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, this cannot be the case for all our fellow citizens. however, i do not want to vote in a way that could be considered hostile to denmark. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the launch of the automated data exchange on fingerprint data with denmark. such transmission of personal data is only possible after the implementation of the general provisions on data protection in the national law of the member state concerned. however, on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark fulfilled the necessary conditions for the transmission and receipt of such personal data. although this transmission of fingerprint data is part of the fight against organised crime and terrorism, we express the strongest reservations about the exchange of personal data with the other member states of the european union. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. i supported the launch of the automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data, i.e. fingerprints, in denmark. the exchange of fingerprint data within the european union is an important instrument in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular to apprehend terrorists and dangerous individuals. this exchange must, however, be carried out in compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the transmission of personal data may only take place after the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by the transmission. the verification should be carried out on the basis of an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, which has been completed, an evaluation visit, which took place in denmark, and a pilot test, the latter of which took place with germany. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. therefore, for the purposes of automated searching of dna data, denmark should be authorised to receive and supply personal data. we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of fingerprint data of french citizens in a european union system, but we do not wish to cast a vote which could be considered hostile to denmark as a state. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in an eu system, but we do not want to issue a vote that could be considered hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council's proposal to set up an automated data exchange for fingerprint data in denmark as part of crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i am convinced that enhanced cooperation between national law enforcement agencies is essential to combat these phenomena which spread beyond national borders and threaten the integrity of our territories. above all, i reiterate my call for the immediate implementation of the prüm decision by all signatory states, which allows the exchange of dna data, fingerprints and vehicle registration plates.
in writing. ‒ on the substance, i am opposed to the disclosure of personal data of french citizens within a european system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in that respect, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes authorising the exchange of fingerprints in denmark. in order to enhance the effectiveness of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, this authorisation was necessary. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the automated data exchange on fingerprint data in denmark. the report finds that the country fulfils the criteria for data protection, based on an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. i have the greatest reservations about the exchange of dna data of french citizens in a european union system, but i do not want to cast a vote that could be seen as hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ this draft decision provides for the transmission and exchange of personal data to be made possible after implementation in the national law of the states concerned. the monitoring of these provisions is carried out on the basis of a questionnaire-based report, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. in the present case, denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the exchange of dactyloscopic data, a pilot trial has been carried out with germany and an evaluation visit has taken place. the council therefore concluded that denmark had met the requirements laid down. however, being very reserved about the exchange of personal data in the eu system, especially for french citizens, i abstained in order not to cast a vote that could have been interpreted as hostile to denmark.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the text provides for cooperation between the member states in the field of automated exchange of dactyloscopic data. on 12 july 2016, the council concluded that denmark had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection and should therefore be authorised to receive and supply personal data from the other member states. cooperation in the field of the exchange of fingerprint data is necessary to improve the effectiveness of the fight against organised crime and terrorism. however, we will have reservations about the exchange of personal data of french citizens in an eu system.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to allow denmark to receive and transmit personal data of citizens, in this case fingerprint data, from its police files with those of other member states. the legislation does contain a clause on data protection and limits on its use, but the shortcomings of this legislation are well known. in france, the cnil has expressed concern about this legislation. and above all, this case is part of a general trend of recording offenders as well as european citizens and migrants. these data, for example, contained in biometric passports, are then cross-referenced with other files to determine 'profiles' of each citizen. a so-called big brother to fight terrorism, an argument that snowden has largely demonstrated to be ineffective. it is mainly a means of increasing the amount of data on citizens to make available to the united states. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this draft decision provides for the transmission and exchange of personal data to be made possible after implementation in the national law of the states concerned. the monitoring of these provisions is carried out on the basis of a questionnaire-based report, an evaluation visit and a pilot test. in the present case, denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the exchange of dactyloscopic data, a pilot trial has been carried out with germany and an evaluation visit has taken place. the council therefore concluded that denmark had met the requirements laid down. however, being very reserved about the exchange of personal data in the eu system, especially for french citizens, i abstained in order not to cast a vote that could have been interpreted as hostile to denmark.
in writing. ‒ we have the strongest reservations about the exchange of dactyloscopic data (i.e. fingerprints) of french citizens in an eu system, even though there is no reason to suspect denmark of misuse. it's better to abstain.
in writing. ‒ denmark has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data. denmark has carried out a successful pilot test with germany. this transfer of personal data in the context of the fight against organised crime and terrorism could make sense. however, we have the greatest reservations about the exchange of personal data of french citizens in an eu system; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the exchange of data without necessarily guaranteeing public freedoms. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in denmark. the european parliament, by approving the council's draft, authorises denmark to receive and share fingerprint data with its partners in order to combat terrorism and cross-border crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i have the greatest reservations about the exchange of personal data of french citizens in an eu system, but denmark has taken a number of precautions on the subject and i respect this democratic country. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ this report validates the proposal for an implementing decision for the transmission of fingerprints to and from denmark. this is a major step forward in the fight against crime, and terrorism in particular. i support that decision. i will continue to monitor the situation to ensure that every means is used to strengthen our cooperation in police and judicial matters.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns automated data exchanges relating to personal data in denmark. the principle of protecting the personal data of our citizens is paramount, but so is the responsibility of the state to protect this data. while it is important that targeted exchanges take place in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, this cannot be the case for all french citizens. however, i do not want to vote in a way that could be considered hostile to denmark. i therefore choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ these two reports give their approval to the automated exchange of personal data, dna and fingerprints, which are themselves increasingly recorded automatically in the states party to the prüm treaty. instead of the concerted consultation between the responsible authorities on a case-by-case basis which should be the norm, this is an automated comparison of personal data without national guards. the risk of profiling is therefore increased under the pretext of combating terrorism and crossborder crime. i am opposed to the proliferation of data exchanges, especially when they are automated, and i am voting against both reports and reaffirming the need to protect the personal data of everyone living in the eu and the principles of necessity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and china for holders of diplomatic passports, the rapporteur clearly paving the way for a full and reciprocal visa waiver for holders of conventional passports. this decision is not intended to impede good relations between our two territories, but it is worth raising an issue that france and our european friends are facing: the industrial espionage of our jewels, leading to large-scale counterfeiting and increased competition in previously reserved areas. china is a world leader in economic espionage: a recent example shows how two areva interns from the middle kingdom were able to photocopy thousands of documents, and management only discovered the leak because of excessive paper consumption. internationalisation is a must, large groups are increasingly employing foreign trainees and the government has decided to take advantage of this. therefore, we should keep a close eye on the movements of our compatriots between the territories of the european union and the people's republic of china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports is a step towards the establishment of a full reciprocal visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports. the abolition of visas will reduce the waiting time at consulates and the costs associated with travel. it will facilitate contacts between peoples, which is essential for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links, and will intensify contacts between people. in any case, visa liberalisation will have to go hand in hand with improvements in human rights and fundamental freedoms in china.
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision aims at the approval, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or union laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. the rapporteur hopes that the short-stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will be a step towards the achievement of a full and reciprocal visa exemption for holders of conventional passports. it should facilitate contacts between peoples, which is essential for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links, and intensify contacts between peoples. we are not opposed to diplomatic relations, but given the problems of industrial espionage in particular, this is a sensitive matter. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this text because it will facilitate contacts between peoples, which is essential for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links.
in writing. ‒ this is a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or union laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. i voted against this report because, while we are not opposed to good diplomatic relations with china, there are too many problems of industrial espionage today for us to take any more risks. moreover, this agreement is part of a crazy policy of full visa liberalisation, which i condemn with all the more force as we are going through a terrible migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the approval, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the rapporteur hopes that the short-stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will represent a step towards the achievement of a total and reciprocal visa exemption for holders of conventional passports. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for a maximum of 90 days over a period of 180 days for citizens of the union and chinese nationals. we are not opposed to diplomatic relations, but given the problems of industrial espionage in particular, this is a sensitive matter and i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to approve, on behalf of the union, the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the rapporteur hopes that the short-stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will be a step towards the achievement of a full and reciprocal visa exemption for holders of conventional passports. i am not, of course, against diplomatic relations, but in view of the problems of industrial espionage, this is a sensitive subject. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to give the european parliament's consent to the agreement with china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. in concrete terms, this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union and chinese nationals holding a diplomatic passport valid in the territory of the other contracting party. on the one hand, this agreement is a step towards full visa-free travel for chinese nationals, which will strengthen legal immigration to europe. on the other hand, it is not at all appropriate to ratify such an agreement at a time when china is suspected of industrial espionage in the member states of the union. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement will strengthen our trade and diplomatic relations with china, while introducing a limited and supervised visa exemption. only holders of diplomatic passports will then be exempt from visas for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the text was intended to approve the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the text sees it as a step towards the achievement of a total and reciprocal visa exemption for passport holders. this would include facilitating contacts between peoples, an essential condition for the steady development of economic, cultural and scientific links. we are not opposed to diplomatic relations, but in view of the risks of espionage, particularly in industrial matters, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we are not opposed to diplomatic relations, but given the problems of industrial espionage in particular, this is a sensitive matter.
in writing. ‒ it seems to me that this agreement is in the direction of a definitive and reciprocal visa exemption. i am not opposed to contacts between peoples, which is a laudable and desirable intention, but to the arrangements as described in this proposal. moreover, we cannot ignore the risk of espionage, especially industrial espionage, which such an agreement with china would impose on our companies. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr bodil valero on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports under the eu-china agreement. this exemption will be formalized by a maximum stay of 90 days in the territory. this arrangement will facilitate and increase diplomatic exchanges with our chinese partner, and thus strengthen economic, cultural and scientific cooperation between our two regions. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for eu citizens holding diplomatic passports and chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports. the rapporteur, mrs valero, hopes that the short-stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will be a step towards the achievement of a total and reciprocal visa exemption for holders of conventional passports. this is simply absurd. i am not opposed to diplomatic relations, but given the problems of industrial espionage in particular, this is a sensitive matter.
in writing. ‒ the decision is aimed at exempting chinese holders of diplomatic passports from short-stay visas. the rapporteur hoped that this would lead to a complete and reciprocal exemption from visa requirements for holders of conventional passports. i am of course not opposed to diplomatic relations with china, but in view of the various cases of industrial espionage and the direction in which this agreement is heading, i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the purpose of this text is to approve the visa waiver agreement between the european union and china. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days for holders of diplomatic passports from china and eu member states. the rapporteur welcomes the fact that the short-stay visa exemption (for diplomats) may one day evolve into full visa liberalisation between china and european countries for holders of a conventional passport. we are of course opposed to this concept. we are not opposed to diplomatic relations with china, but we are wary of such liberalization.
in writing. ‒ after years of negotiations, the eu has finally lifted the visa requirement for chinese diplomats. this is a mutual agreement. europeans with diplomatic passports will also be able to travel to china without a visa. i agree with the rapporteur's criticisms of the commission's approach to these bilateral negotiations on behalf of the member states. it denounces in particular the provisional application of the agreement before the european parliament's approval, which shows the eu's lack of respect for democracy. the commission also notes that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. i am voting for this agreement, however, because it will facilitate trade, cooperation and mutual trust between our states and china by abandoning an insensitive and vexatious requirement.
in writing. ‒ the decision is aimed at exempting chinese holders of diplomatic passports from short-stay visas. the rapporteur hoped that this would lead to a complete and reciprocal exemption from visa requirements for holders of conventional passports. i am of course not opposed to diplomatic relations with china, but in view of the various cases of industrial espionage and the direction in which this agreement is heading, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision aims at the approval, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or union laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. the rapporteur hopes that the short-stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will represent a step towards the achievement of a full and reciprocal visa exemption for holders of conventional passports. we are not opposed to diplomatic relations, but given the problems of industrial espionage in particular, this is a sensitive matter. so the vote will be against.
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision aims at approving, on behalf of the union, the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. we are not opposed to diplomatic relations and their improvement, but given the problems of industrial espionage in particular, this is too sensitive a matter to exempt holders of diplomatic passports from visa requirements. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the european parliament, by approving the agreement, is making it easier for eu citizens with diplomatic passports to travel to china. it also facilitates the movement of chinese nationals holding diplomatic passports within the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision aims at the approval, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the rapporteur hopes that the short-stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports will be a step towards the achievement of a full and reciprocal visa exemption for holders of conventional passports. it should facilitate contacts between peoples, which is essential for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links, and intensify contacts between peoples. we are not opposed to diplomatic relations but it is essential to keep control of borders and of the people who cross them in the current global context. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it provides for a visa exemption for short stays for chinese diplomats in france and europe, but also for european diplomats in china. it is a necessity to facilitate our diplomatic relations.
in writing. ‒ this text is intended to approve the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the rapporteur hopes that the visa waiver will be a step towards the achievement of a total and reciprocal visa waiver for holders of a conventional passport. in view of the problems of industrial espionage in particular, this visa exemption seems somewhat premature. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends the approval of the reciprocal visa waiver, for a maximum period of 90 days, for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or union laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport, granted between the two parties. this is in line with diplomatic practice. i would nevertheless like to denounce, even if only in formal terms, the fact that this agreement, like others, is being implemented even before receiving the european parliament's recommendation on it. the european parliament should not be a cash register and it is worth remembering that i am also surprised to find that some of my colleagues are more ticklish on human rights issues when it comes to liberalizing diplomatic visas for china than when it comes to free trade or outsourcing migration flows with other countries that are not known to respect the same rights.
in writing. ‒ the member states concerned by this text are unable to finance public investment that would boost economic growth, given their debt levels. although these increases may prove positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies (lack of competitiveness, over-indebtedness) but are aimed at making them even more dependent on the european structural funds as part of the austerity policies imposed by the commission. finally, i abstained on this text because, with constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of other member states such as france, which will suffer even more significant delays in payment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for an 85% extension of the financing of aid to cyprus and greece until the end of the 2014-2020 financial year. we must not forget that the recent financial and economic crisis is putting pressure on national economies. national budgets are under pressure. as a result, in many member states, european structural funds investments remain fundamental to the survival of these economies.
in writing. ‒ it is in the context of austerity policy that regulation no 1303/2013 provides for an increase in the co-financing rate for states which have received financial assistance from the european union after 31/12/2013. the current proposal would allow the european commission to continue to make increased payments to any member state receiving financial assistance after 30/06/2016 without changing the overall allocation of the esi funds for the period 2014/2020. these increases concern greece, which is continuing its adjustment programme, and cyprus, which until 30 june 2017 benefits from an exceptional co-financing rate of 85% for all operational programmes from the erdf and the esf. these member states are in debt and unable to finance public investment that would help to stimulate economic recovery. although these increases may prove positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies (lack of competitiveness, over-indebtedness) but are instead aimed at making them even more dependent on the european structural funds. finally, these increases will be made at the expense of other member states such as france, which will suffer even more significant delays in payment. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report because the commission's proposal provides a precise and budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems faced by two member states.
in writing. ‒ these member states are unable to finance public investment to boost economic growth because of their debt. although these increases may prove positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies (lack of competitiveness, over-indebtedness) but are instead aimed at making them even more dependent on the european structural funds. finally, with constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of other member states such as france, which will suffer even greater delays in payment. i abstained on this report which does not propose a viable solution.
in writing. ‒ with the austerity policies advocated by the european commission and the limitation of de facto investments, many countries are no longer able to co-finance projects eligible for european structural funds. regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 provides for an increase in the co-financing rate to be granted to states which have received financial assistance from the european union after 31 december 2013. the current proposal would allow the european commission to continue to make increased payments to any member state receiving financial assistance after 30 june 2016 without changing the overall allocation of the esi funds for the period 2014-2020, in particular for greece and cyprus. although these increases are good in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of these countries' economies. they make countries more dependent and cause even greater delays in payment for other countries such as france. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ we are facing a pyromaniacal situation here: after bringing the economies of cyprus and greece to their knees, the european authorities are concerned, in this regulation, to increase the co-financing rates applicable to the european structural funds for these countries. however, as i am in favour of helping these people who are being held hostage, i will not vote against it. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ under pressure from the european commission, member states are implementing austerity plans to reduce their budget deficits to 3% of gdp. the european union has been facing a period of austerity which has caused a fall in public investment, particularly in the southern european countries, which are no longer able to co-finance public investment projects eligible for european structural funds. it is in this context that this report calls for the extension of the mechanism to increase co-financing rates in member states receiving financial assistance after 30 june 2016. only greece and cyprus are covered by this scheme. although these increases may prove beneficial in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies but will make them dependent on the european structural funds. moreover, with constant payment appropriations, this mechanism will increase payment delays in the other member states to the detriment of the beneficiaries of the structural funds. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. the financial situation of cyprus and greece is such that without assistance from the european union, the sustainability of projects co-financed by these states and the european funds would no longer be assured. in order to preserve these projects, i voted in favour of the report on the financial management of certain member states which are experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability. the temporary increase in union payments linked to this additional aid is expected to be offset by a decrease in payments before 2020.
in writing. ‒ at the request of the european commission, member states are implementing austerity policies aimed at reducing their public deficits to 3% of gdp, causing a decline in public investment, notably in greece, portugal and cyprus. these countries are no longer able to co-finance projects eligible for eu funds. it is in this context that regulation no 1303/2013 provides for an increase in the co-financing rate for states which have received eu financial assistance after 31/12/2013. the text would allow the commission to continue to make increased payments to any member state receiving financial assistance after 30/06/2016 without altering the overall allocation of the esi funds for 2014/2020. although these increases may be positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of these economies (lack of competitiveness, over-indebtedness). on the contrary, they are intended to make them even more dependent on the european structural funds. finally, with constant payment appropriations, these increases will be at the expense of countries such as france, which will suffer even more significant delays in payment. so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ abstention: these member states are unable to finance public investment to boost economic growth because of their debt. although these increases may prove positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies (lack of competitiveness, over-indebtedness) but are instead aimed at making them even more dependent on the european structural funds. finally, with constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of other member states such as france, which will suffer even more significant delays in payment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it should help countries facing real budgetary difficulties to make the best use of the structural funds. the crisis is putting a strain on national budgets, threatening the co-financing of regional policy projects in some member states. the investment made possible by european funds is often a key element for growth.
in writing. ‒ member states are in such a debt situation that it is difficult for them to boost economic growth through public investment. moreover, this policy would only increase the dependence of the most fragile economies on the european structural funds and would not solve the deep-seated shortcomings of the beneficiary states. finally, these increases should not be at the expense of other economies which are already experiencing delays in payment. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs iskra mihaylova, on the extension of aid to states in temporary financial difficulties. some member states, such as greece and cyprus, are unable to find sufficient resources for the national co-financing of european regional policy projects. however, there are provisions in the regulations to help member states in financial difficulty to maximise the opportunities offered by european funds. the mihaylova report thus takes up the european commission's proposal to ensure that european funds are not lost to countries in difficulty, in particular by increasing co-financing rates without impacting the european budget. this proposal is budget-neutral. i am glad that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the report proposes to continue the policy of increasing the co-financing rates for member states receiving financial assistance (greece and cyprus). this may be positive in the short term, but it does not address the roots of the economic problems (over-indebtedness, lack of competitiveness). with constant payment appropriations, these increases risk increasing payment delays in the other member states, particularly in france.
in writing. ‒ under the austerity policies put in place by the eu to reduce the public deficit of the member states to 3% of gdp, some member states are no longer able to co-finance projects eligible for european structural funds. this regulation therefore provides, in particular for greece and cyprus, which have already benefited from eu financial assistance, an exceptional co-financing rate of 85% for operational programmes from the erdf and the esf. although these arrangements may be beneficial in the short term, they do not address the structural problems of these countries (over-indebtedness, lack of competitiveness, etc.). moreover, at constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of the other member states, including france. i therefore abstained on this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the proposal for a regulation provides for an increase in the cofinancing rate and in intermediate payments from the structural funds for greece and cyprus. these two countries have been receiving financial assistance from the european union since 2013, following the financial difficulties caused by the economic crisis of 2008 and the implementation of the european austerity policy. without this increase, greece and cyprus are unable to use the structural funds allocated to them and to finance public investment. however, this is still a short-term solution and risks making the greek and cypriot economies even more dependent on european funds. in addition, this increase, which is carried out without any change in the annual budget, may delay payments for the other member states, in particular france.
in writing. ‒ articles 24 and 120 (3) of the common provisions regulation (cpr) are designed to help member states experiencing temporary financial difficulties. the proposed text aims to extend these specific financial provisions to greece and cyprus, as they are facing a difficult economic situation. the proposal provides for the possibility of increasing interim payments by 10% above the co-financing rate applicable to the various european funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd, emff). it also allows an increase in the co-financing rate of 85% (instead of 50%) under the erdf and the esf until the programmes are closed. it is true that this is an adjustment and not a change in the financial envelope allocated to these two member states, but i note that these provisions could be applied to other countries in the same situation. i am voting for this text so that these provisions can come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ under the austerity policies put in place by the eu to reduce the public deficit of the member states to 3% of gdp, some member states are no longer able to co-finance projects eligible for european structural funds. this regulation therefore provides, in particular for greece and cyprus, which have already benefited from eu financial assistance, an exceptional co-financing rate of 85% for operational programmes from the erdf and the esf. although these arrangements may be beneficial in the short term, they do not address the structural problems of these countries (over-indebtedness, lack of competitiveness, etc.). moreover, at constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of the other member states, including france. i therefore abstained on this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ the proposal would allow the european commission to continue to make increased payments to any member state receiving financial assistance after 30 june 2016 without changing the overall allocation of the esi funds for the period 2014-2020. these increases concern greece, which is continuing its adjustment programme, and cyprus, which until 30 june 2017 benefits from an exceptional co-financing rate of 85% for all operational programmes from the erdf and the esf. in view of their debt burden, these member states are unable to finance public investment that would help to boost economic growth. although these increases may prove positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies (lack of competitiveness, over-indebtedness), but are instead aimed at making them even more dependent on the european structural funds. at constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of other member states, such as france, which will suffer even more significant delays in payment. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1303/2013 provides for an increase in the co-financing rate for those states which have received financial assistance from the european union after 31 december 2013. at constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of other member states such as france, which will suffer even more significant delays in payment. moreover, these increases will not solve anything since the euro and austerity, which are responsible for the economic difficulties of these states, are being kept in place. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the amendment of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or likely to experience serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the budget-neutral text is intended to help member states such as greece and cyprus, which are experiencing financial difficulties, to implement projects co-financed by european funds at national level. in concrete terms, the aim is to increase the rate of european co-financing applied to erdf, esf and cohesion fund projects in these countries. this will enable projects that have been stalled due to difficulties in mobilising national funds to be relaunched.
in writing. ‒ under pressure from the european commission, member state governments are implementing austerity policies to reduce their public deficits to 3% of gdp, which has led to a fall in public investment, notably in greece, portugal and cyprus, where national authorities are no longer able to co-finance projects eligible for eu structural funds. regulation no 1303/2013 provides for an increase in the co-financing rate to be granted to states which have received financial assistance from the european union after 31/12/2013. in view of their debt burden, these member states are unable to finance public investment that would help to boost economic growth. although these increases may prove positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies (lack of competitiveness, over-indebtedness) but are instead aimed at making them even more dependent on the european structural funds. finally, with constant payment appropriations, these increases will be made at the expense of other member states such as france, which will suffer even more significant delays in payment. in these circumstances, i would therefore prefer to abstain because i disapprove of this foolish policy but do not wish to penalise the people who suffer because of the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report validates a commission legislative proposal to facilitate an additional support mechanism in the implementation of the union's regional policy for countries experiencing severe financial difficulties. they do not have sufficient resources to co-finance these programmes. if no decisions were taken, regional policy would have declined only partially in these territories. i am glad that i voted for this report, which has a neutral budgetary impact in the end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 on the financial management of certain member states experiencing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. today, some member states are facing budgetary difficulties and are no longer able to provide national co-financing for projects linked to cohesion policy, formerly regional policy. it is important to emphasise that european law provides for the possibility for the european institutions to help member states in financial difficulty. the purpose of this text is to extend the deadline for the commission to grant additional support. the report will enable the commission to supplement payments to a member state under an adjustment programme by adding up to 10 percentage points to the co-financing rates applicable to the priorities of the european social fund, the european regional development fund or the cohesion fund programmes. it is important to note that this extension has no budgetary impact.
in writing. ‒ this text provides for the granting of aid and derogations in the european financial regulatory system to member states experiencing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. although these increases may prove positive in the short term, they do not solve the structural problems of the greek and cypriot economies in particular. on the contrary, they are intended to make them even more dependent on the european structural funds. i therefore chose to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr le pen's immunity. the immunity of members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the treaties of the european union. hate speech is a clear violation of these principles and values. hate speech cannot be justified by freedom of expression. the statements in question cannot in any way be interpreted as being connected with the fulfilment of mr le pen's parliamentary mandate and therefore cannot and should not be protected.
in writing. - i voted against the waiver of jean-marie le pen's immunity. the prosecution he faces in france is for the crime of opinion and the interpretation of his words borders on ridiculous. by voting for the waiver of immunity, the european parliament has once again demonstrated that its attachment to freedom of expression, which varies according to circumstances and political colours, is an illusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ jean-marie le pen built his career on mystification and exaggeration. it is now being caught up by hate speech on the internet. this is clearly contrary to the spirit of european construction, based on messages of peace and brotherhood between peoples, in the aftermath of the second world war. it is in the light of the values, objectives and principles of the european treaties that we voted to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. the examination of the case showed that the facts alleged against mr le pen were unrelated to his parliamentary mandate, thus allowing the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen. the far-right mp is being prosecuted for 'public incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or group of persons on the grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of an ethnic group, nation, race or religion' following a video posted on the front national website. in the video, le pen says about patrick bruel, who announced that he did not want to sing in cities where the city council is in the fn, "it does not surprise me. look, next time we'll make a batch. since there is no connection between the statement in question and the parliamentary work of jean-marie le pen and since, in the eyes of french law, anti-semitism is not an opinion but a crime, i am voting for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. - we'll make a batch next time. these are the words of jean-marie le pen in june 2014 in response to the positions of french celebrities who had indicated their desire to leave france in case, one day, the national front wins. i voted in favour of the waiver of mr le pen's parliamentary immunity: this is a classic procedure, which was examined by the european parliament's committee on legal affairs, which considered that the remarks made by the extremist leader did not fall within the scope of his duties as an mep. the lifting of his immunity for the purposes of the legal proceedings in france is therefore a normal step.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary immunity does not serve to protect against common law crimes. jean-marie le pen is accused of public incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a person or group of persons on the grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of an ethnic group, nation, race or religion. he is a habitual offender and has already been convicted 11 times for similar offences. the european parliament is very vigilant in dealing with requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity and ensures that the rules in this area are strictly applied regardless of political affiliation, which i welcome. i therefore voted for the waiver of jean-marie le pen's immunity in accordance with the proposal of the parliament's legal affairs committee and the request of the paris public prosecutor's office.
in writing. - i voted to waive jane collins' immunity. the immunity of members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the treaties of the european union. freedom of expression cannot and must not go beyond these values.
in writing. ‒ on 26 september 2014, jane collins, a ukip candidate and then mep, made remarks which were considered by the applicants to be defamatory. in the present case, some labour party leaders were reportedly informed of paedophile crimes and did not act on them. his comments fall within the framework of the freedom of expression which every political figure must enjoy. however, in view of the seriousness of the allegations and the fact that mrs collins spoke in the context of an internal campaign in the united kingdom, and therefore without any direct and obvious link to her mandate as a member of the european parliament, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ his remarks fall within the framework of the freedom of expression which every political figure must enjoy. however, given the seriousness of the allegations and the fact that mrs collins spoke in the context of an internal campaign in the united kingdom, and therefore without any direct and obvious link to her mandate as a member of the european parliament, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of jane collins, ukip candidate and mep, because of remarks considered defamatory by the applicants, made on 26 september 2014 and according to which some labour party leaders were informed of pedophile crimes but did not act on them. his comments fall within the framework of the freedom of expression which every political figure must enjoy. however, given the seriousness of the allegations and the fact that mrs collins spoke in the context of an internal campaign in the united kingdom, and therefore without any direct and obvious link to her mandate as a member of the european parliament, i chose to exercise caution.
in writing. ‒ jane collins is accused of making defamatory statements after she said that some labour party leaders were aware of paedophile crimes without bringing legal proceedings. it is true that these remarks are part of the freedom of expression which all meps and political figures must enjoy. however, in view of the seriousness of the allegations made by jane collins and in view of the fact that she made her statements in the context of an internal campaign without any direct and obvious link with her mandate as an mep, i abstained on her request to defend her privileges and immunities.
in writing. ‒ on 26 september 2014, jane collins, a ukip candidate and then mep, made remarks which the applicants considered to be defamatory. in the present case, some labour party leaders were reportedly informed of paedophile crimes and did not act on them. these remarks are part of the freedom of expression which every politician must have. however, given the seriousness of the allegations and the fact that mrs collins spoke in the context of an internal campaign in the united kingdom, and therefore without any direct and obvious link to her mandate as a member of the european parliament, i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the case concerns comments made in the context of an internal election campaign in the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ although the content of jane collins' remarks may be objectionable, particularly according to the main stakeholders, the mep has the right to use her freedom of expression, especially since the matter occurred at an internal political event in her country, unrelated to the mandate of a european parliamentarian. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tadeusz zwiefka, on the request for the defence of the parliamentary privileges and immunities of mrs jane collins. the committee on legal affairs considered that, since the court dealing with the case in which ms collins was charged had not requested the waiver of her immunity and since the facts were unrelated to her parliamentary mandate, the defence of the privileges and immunities of ms collins was not justified.
in writing. ‒ jane collins made comments which were considered defamatory and a request was made to waive her immunity. in view of the accusations and the fact that these remarks were made during an internal election campaign in the united kingdom, and therefore not directly related to the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament, i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. in 2014, jane collins said in an internal campaign in the uk that some labour party cadres had been informed of paedophile crimes, and that they had not acted on them. this statement is considered defamatory and is the reason for the request for waiver of immunity. if we defend freedom of expression, a fundamental right of the most absolute, the gravity of the accusations, as well as the absence of a direct and obvious link with his mandate, push us to abstain.
in writing. - the report calls for the waiver of jane collins' immunity. the ukip mp is being sued for libel and slander in the high court in london over comments she made at a ukip party congress. she accused three labour party members of knowing about child abuse cases in the town of rotheram and not saying anything. the report also calls for the abolition of the immunity of members of the european parliament, since the immunity of members of the european parliament applies only to opinions expressed by members of the european parliament in the exercise of their duties, which is not the case here. given the seriousness of the charges, i vote yes.
in writing. ‒ jane collins made comments which were considered defamatory and a request was made to waive her immunity. in view of the accusations and the fact that these remarks were made during an internal election campaign in the united kingdom, and therefore not directly related to the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ on 26 september 2014, jane collins, ukip candidate and then mep, made remarks which the applicants considered to be defamatory. in the present case, some labour party leaders were reportedly informed of paedophile crimes and did not act on them. his comments fall within the framework of the freedom of expression which every political figure must enjoy. however, given the seriousness of the allegations and the fact that mrs collins spoke in the context of an internal campaign in the united kingdom, and therefore without any direct and obvious link to her mandate as a member of the european parliament, abstention will be preferred.
in writing. ‒ mrs collins' remarks were made in the context of an internal campaign in the uk, and therefore had no direct and obvious link with her mandate as a member of the european parliament. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ mrs collins is accused of defamation for making very serious allegations in the context of an internal campaign in the united kingdom, which had no direct and obvious link with her mandate as a member of the european parliament. given the seriousness of the facts but the absence of a connection to the warrant, i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this traditional procedure is first considered in the committee on legal affairs (juri) before being voted on in plenary. in this case, the juri committee did not recommend the defence of the privileges and immunities of the member of parliament.
in writing. - i voted to waive mario borghezio's immunity. the immunity of members of the european parliament is based on the principles and values of the treaties of the european union. hate speech clearly violates these principles and values and cannot be justified by freedom of expression. furthermore, the statements in question cannot in any way be interpreted as being related to the fulfilment of mr borghezio's mandate and therefore cannot and should not be protected.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio, invited to a satirical radio programme as an mep, commented on the competences of the italian minister for integration, whose portfolio included certain aspects of immigration policy. he is accused of promoting ideas of racial superiority and ethnic hatred. the migration issue is at the heart of his parliamentary activities, as can be seen from his european work. mr borghezio therefore acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. secondly, it is important to put his words back in context. the member was speaking during a debate between political leaders on a satirical programme. he also publicly apologized for hurting mrs. kyenge. as a result, his statement falls within the strict framework of freedom of expression under echr case law. moreover, as regards the internal procedure, the public prosecutor's office did not make a request to the european parliament to waive immunity and the milan court did not even take into account the procedure initiated before it. this is extremely shocking and proves the existence of a fumus persecutionis. therefore, i voted against the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ the issue of migration is at the heart of our parliamentary activities. in the present case, the statement in question has a direct and obvious link with that subject. mr borghezio can therefore be considered to have acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and that is why i opposed the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. it is also worth noting that another politician made statements that could be considered much more serious against ms kyenge and the case was nevertheless closed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the defence of the parliamentary immunity of my colleague mario borghezio, italian mep for the northern league and member of my group enf, in the name of defending freedom of expression. mario borghezio, invited to a satirical radio programme as an mep, commented on the powers of the italian minister for integration, whose portfolio included certain aspects of immigration policy. he is accused of promoting ideas of racial superiority and ethnic hatred. the member was speaking during a debate between political leaders on a satirical programme. he also publicly apologized for hurting mrs. kyenge. as a result, his statement falls within the strict framework of freedom of expression (see echr case law). moreover, as regards the internal procedure, the public prosecutor's office did not make a request to the european parliament to waive immunity and the milan court did not even take into account the procedure initiated before it. this is extremely shocking and proves the existence of a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio is accused of having conveyed ideas based on racial or ethnic hatred in a satirical radio programme. this was part of a comment on the responsibilities of the italian minister for integration, whose portfolio includes certain aspects of immigration policy. the migration issue is at the heart of his parliamentary activities, as his european work shows. it is therefore clear that mario borghezio acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union states that members of the european parliament may not be prosecuted for speech and votes made in the performance of their duties. finally, we would point out that the public prosecutor's office did not even make a request to the european parliament for the waiver of immunity. that is why i voted against the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mario borghezio.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio, invited to a satirical radio programme as a member of the european parliament, commented on the powers of italian minister kyenge, who is responsible for integration and certain aspects of immigration policy. he was accused of promoting ideas based on racial or ethnic superiority. the migration issue is at the heart of his parliamentary activities. mr borghezio can therefore be regarded as having acted in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. meps 'may not be sought, detained or prosecuted for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties'. mr borghezio also publicly apologised for having hurt ms kyenge. his comments are therefore within the strict framework of freedom of expression. finally, the italian public prosecutor did not make a request for the waiver of immunity and the milan court did not even take account of the proceedings before it. it is worth noting that another politician made statements that could be considered much more serious against ms kyenge and the case was nevertheless closed. i also voted against the waiver of mr borghezio's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the waiver of parliamentary immunity: the procedure proves the existence of a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ mr borghezio's statement is directly related to his parliamentary activities and his status as a member of parliament: he is therefore protected by article 8 of protocol no 7. in addition, mr borghezio's comments, for which he publicly apologised to ms kyenge, were made on the occasion of a satirical television programme. it is therefore in the exercise of his right to freedom of expression that mr borghezio is subject to a scandalous procedure which the public prosecutor's office and the general court themselves have not chosen to initiate against him. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague angel dzhambazki on the request for the defence of the parliamentary privileges and immunities of mario borghezio. the committee on legal affairs considered that, since the court dealing with the case in which mr borghezio was charged had not requested the waiver of his immunity and since the facts were unrelated to his parliamentary mandate, the defence of mr borghezio's privileges and immunities was not justified. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio, invited to debate with other politicians on a satirical radio programme, is accused of having spread hateful ideas as an mep. in concrete terms, he mocked the competence of the minister of immigration, who claimed that he was referring to his origins. mr borghezio has also publicly apologised for having injured the minister in question. mr borghezio's comments were therefore made in the context of the exercise of his mandate. moreover, the public prosecutor's office did not make a request to the european parliament to waive the immunity and the milan court did not take into account the procedure initiated. i therefore voted in favour of the request for defence of the parliamentary immunity of mario borghezio.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the waiver of parliamentary immunity. mario borghezio's immunity was waived following comments he made as an mep on a satirical programme. these remarks were directed at the competences of the italian minister for integration in the area of migration policy. however, as his work in the european parliament shows, the migration issue is at the heart of his work and he has therefore acted in the exercise of his duties. article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that 'members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties'. moreover, his remarks, which were made on a satirical programme and were the subject of a public apology for having offended the minister, fall within the scope of freedom of expression. finally, the public prosecutor's office did not apply to the european parliament for immunity and the milan court did not take the procedure into account, two facts which prove the existence of a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the procedure was initiated with the intention of harming the political activity of the member of parliament who, as it happens, is a member of the enl group.
in writing. - the report calls for the waiver of mario borghezio's immunity. the italian member of the league of the north is accused of having conveyed ideas based on racial or ethnic superiority and hatred during a radio programme. i consider that these statements were not made in the exercise of parliamentary functions and are therefore not covered by parliamentary immunity. moreover, since they are clearly a racist offence and not merely a political opinion, i am voting for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ mario borghezio, invited to debate with other politicians on a satirical radio programme, is accused of having spread hateful ideas as an mep. in concrete terms, he mocked the competence of the minister of immigration, who claimed that he was referring to his origins. mr borghezio has also publicly apologised for having injured the minister in question. mr borghezio's comments were therefore made in the context of the exercise of his mandate. moreover, the public prosecutor's office did not make a request to the european parliament to waive the immunity and the milan court did not take into account the procedure initiated. i therefore voted in favour of the request for defence of the parliamentary immunity of mario borghezio.
in writing. ‒ mr borghezio made comments on a satirical programme which led to him being prosecuted, despite the fact that it seems clear that this was an abusive procedure with political connotations. therefore, the vote will be against the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ a member's freedom of expression must be protected, which is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the member of parliament spoke during a debate between political leaders on a satirical programme. he also publicly apologized for any offence he may have caused to ms. kyenge. as a result, his statement falls within the strict framework of freedom of expression. moreover, as regards the internal procedure, the public prosecutor's office did not make a request to the european parliament to waive immunity and the milan court did not even take into account the procedure initiated before it. the move to waive immunity is therefore shocking and proves the existence of a fumus persecutionis. finally, it should be noted that another politician made statements that could be considered much more serious against ms kyenge and the case was nevertheless closed. in these circumstances, i therefore vote against the report requesting the waiver of mr borghezio's immunity.
in writing. ‒ this traditional procedure is first considered in the committee on legal affairs (juri) before being voted on in plenary. in this case, the juri committee did not recommend the defence of the privileges and immunities of the member of parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement with the council which will ensure that data collected by the european railway agency (era) or dg move can be used for statistical purposes and be easily accessible to the public.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on freight and passenger transport as well as on accidents on the entire rail network of the union. it is of little interest but the passage through parliament is obligatory. there is no major reason to oppose it, but there is also no reason to vote in favour of this report which does not bring anything positive to french rail transport. however, ukip meps have proposed a rejection amendment based on the rejection of the principle that the eu should interfere with railway statistics, which is legitimate. i therefore voted in favour of this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ i see no major reason to oppose it, but neither do i see any reason to vote in favour of this report, which does not seem to me to bring anything positive to the french railway sector. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this second reading text concerns the collection of statistics on rail transport, in particular as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. this report does not mention the commission's delegated acts and is of little interest, but as there is no major reason to oppose it, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ while i am very concerned about rail accidents, i do not see the point in dealing with these issues at european level rather than at the level of each member state. therefore, although i think that this report is well-intentioned, i voted for the amendment rejecting the proposal tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ this report empowers the commission to collect statistical data on freight, passengers and accidents on the entire rail network of the european union. we see no objection to the union collecting statistics for the purpose of conducting studies on the efficiency of national rail systems. however, we would point out that this text does not clearly mention the acts delegated to the commission, i.e. the powers which derive from an explicit authorisation from the legislative texts adopted by the parliament and the council. moreover, this report will not bring anything positive to french rail transport. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on rail transport statistics, which has the overall objective of improving the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. the agreements signed between eurostat and the commission and between eurostat and the european railway agency have made it possible to establish a new and efficient division of tasks for the collection of statistics. in order to ensure the proper implementation of existing european railway policies and to better prepare future policies, in particular on passenger safety, it is essential that the legal framework be amended to take account of these institutional developments.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on freight and passenger transport as well as on accidents on the entire rail network of the european union. there is no more reason to oppose it than to vote in favour of this report which does nothing positive for french rail transport. so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ abstention: it is of little interest but the passage before parliament is obligatory. there is no major reason to oppose it, but there is also no reason to vote in favour of this report which does not bring anything positive to french rail transport.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, this proposal does not have any significant interest in promoting the rail transport sector in france, although the substance is not objectionable. however, i choose to support the amendment by the efdd group to oppose the european union's wish to interfere in the statistical affairs of the member states' rail transport. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michael cramer on the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. this text supports the collaboration between eurostat and the european railway agency to improve rail accident statistics and ensure consistency in the methodology adapted to other modes of transport. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on rail transport statistics concerning the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on freight and passenger transport, as well as on accidents on the entire rail network of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is a mandate given to the commission to collect statistical data on rail freight and passenger transport and on accidents on the entire union network. it does not bring anything positive to french rail transport. the british members of the efdd (europe of freedom and direct democracy) group proposed a rejection amendment, so i voted for that amendment (and therefore against the report).
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this text enables the commission to compile statistics on freight and passenger transport and on rail accidents on the union network. this text does not bring anything positive to french rail transport and imposes a new mandatory passage before parliament, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ this is the practical implementation of the 'technical' part of the 4th railway package. this report aims to simplify and improve european rail transport statistics. but the purpose of these statistics is made explicit by the commission: 'the main objective of eu transport policy is to establish an internal market by developing common policies to promote a high level of competitiveness'. this is a bad logic: statistics must focus on data that are important for user safety and the ecological bifurcation of transport (by integrating, for example, railway statistics). that is not the case here. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report is a mandate given to the commission to collect statistical data on rail freight and passenger transport and on accidents on the entire union network. it does not bring anything positive to french rail transport. the british members of the efdd group have proposed a rejection amendment, so i voted in favour of that amendment.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on freight and passenger transport, as well as on accidents on the entire railway network of the member states. there is no major reason to oppose it, although this report does not bring anything positive to french rail transport. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics, as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. the aim is to simplify and optimise the collection of statistical data on rail transport at european level. these statistics are necessary to enable the commission to better assess and adapt european transport policy, particularly in the major area of rail safety.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to enable the commission to collect statistical data on freight and passenger transport as well as on accidents on the entire rail network in the union. it does not refer to delegated acts of the commission. it is of little interest, but the passage through parliament is obligatory. i have no major reason to oppose it, but i have no major reason to vote in favour of this report, which does nothing positive for french rail transport. i do, however, support the amendment proposed by the efdd group which refuses to grant this additional power to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which updates and simplifies the legal framework for european rail transport statistics. this is of paramount importance, particularly in order to ensure and prepare for the new railway safety legislation as best as possible. the establishment of reliable and rapidly accessible data will also enable citizens and authorities to better understand the evolution of rail transport in their territories.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on freight and passenger transport, as well as on accidents on the entire rail network of the union. the commission's collection of this data is not a problem. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement with the council which will ensure that data collected by the european railway agency (era) or dg move can be used for statistical purposes and are easily accessible to the public.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight across the union's inland waterway network. the text also redefines the nature and scope of the commission's delegated acts in this area. this report is of little interest, but it is mandatory to pass it through parliament. the commission's availability of statistical tools on shipping is not a problem. delegated acts are more problematic but remain limited in scope and duration. as this concerns a regulatory power of the commission which the fn members are opposed in principle, they cannot vote in favour of this secondary report. however, as this was a second reading without a rejection amendment, the report was adopted without a vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote: the fact that the commission has statistical tools on navigation is not a priori a problem, unless it means giving more power to the bureaucrats in brussels, to the detriment of our sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this report on statistics on inland waterway freight transport is intended to enable the commission to collect statistical data on inland waterway freight across the union's inland waterway network. the report also redefines the nature and scope of the commission's delegated acts in this area. it is a report with little interest; the commission's availability of statistical tools on shipping is not a problem, but delegated acts are more problematic, since this is a regulatory power which i oppose in principle. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ while i do not see any problem with the commission having statistical information, i am more reserved about the usefulness of the commission's delegated acts in this area, as i consider that the member states are best placed to deal with inland waterways. there was no final vote on this text because it was a second reading.
in writing. ‒ this report empowers the european commission to collect statistical data on inland freight across the union's inland waterway network. we see no problem in the european union having statistical tools on shipping to carry out studies on the efficiency of inland waterway transport systems in the member states. however, this report redefines the nature and scope of the acts delegated to the commission, i.e. the powers which derive from an explicit authorisation from the legislative texts adopted by the parliament and the council. while their scope remains limited, these delegated acts give the commission the possibility to add new rules or to amend certain aspects of a legislative act. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on statistics on inland waterway freight transport. passenger transport by inland waterways is still too little developed. in order to design strategies to increase this activity, we need reliable statistics. it is therefore essential to integrate passenger transport into the scope of the regulation on statistics on inland waterway freight transport. for this integration to take place in a fair and optimal way, it is important that the establishment of a statistical methodology for passenger transport should be gradual and that the powers delegated to the commission should be strictly controlled.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight across the eu's inland waterway network. the report also redefines the nature and scope of the commission's delegated acts in this area. this report is of little interest but its approval by parliament is obligatory. the commission's availability of statistical tools on shipping is not a problem. delegated acts are nevertheless problematic, although in this case they remain limited in terms of duration and effects. i abstained, however, because i was opposed to the commission's regulatory power in general.
in writing. - abstention from voting. this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland waterway freight on the entire inland waterway network of the union. the question concerns a regulatory power of the commission, which the fn members are opposed in principle: they cannot vote in favour of this secondary report.
in writing. ‒ i am not opposed to the collection of statistical tools made available to the commission for a navigation network. however, there is no question of supporting a strengthening of the commission's regulatory power. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bas eickhout on the transport of goods by inland waterways. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. this initiative will bring inland waterway transport on a par with maritime, air and road transport for which statistical data are already collected. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the report on statistics on inland waterway freight transport (delegated powers and implementing powers). this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland waterway freight on the entire inland waterway network of the union. it also redefines the nature and scope of the commission's delegated acts in this area. the commission's availability of statistical tools on shipping is not a problem. delegated acts are more problematic. this is a regulatory power of the commission, which i, like all fn members, oppose.
in writing. ‒ this report is an authorisation given to the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight transport on the entire union shipping network. these delegated acts constitute a regulatory power of the commission, which the front national members are opposed to in principle. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this text allows the commission to compile statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterways, which we do not oppose. on the contrary, it redefines the nature and scope of the commission's delegated acts and, even if they remain limited (duration and scope), we oppose the commission's regulatory power.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of this commission text is to give the commission new powers (delegated acts and implementing acts) in the field of statistics on inland waterway transport of goods and passengers. it is based on the treaty of lisbon, which i fought against and which the french people rejected by a referendum with a majority of almost 55%. nicolas sarkozy has imposed this new treaty on the french people, against their will as expressed in the ballot box. just as i did not tolerate this trampling on popular sovereignty in 2009, i do not tolerate its effects in 2014, even if it is on a purely statistical and technical subject. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report is an authorisation given to the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight transport on the entire union shipping network. these delegated acts concern a regulatory power of the commission, which fn meps oppose in principle. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight across the union's inland waterway network. it also redefines the nature and scope of the commission's delegated acts in this area. the commission's availability of statistical tools on shipping is not a problem. delegated acts are more problematic but remain limited in terms of duration and scope. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight across the member states' inland waterway network. this report is of little interest, it does not contribute anything to the river systems of the member states, but it is mandatory to pass it before parliament. the delegated acts provided for in the text are more problematic, but remain limited in scope, although they give the commission regulatory power. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway, as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. the aim is to improve the collection of statistical data on the flow of goods transported by inland waterway at european level and to enable pilot studies on passenger transport by inland waterway to be launched in the voluntary member states.
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight across the union's inland waterway network. it also redefines the nature and scope of the commission's delegated acts in this area. this report is of little interest but it is mandatory to pass it through parliament. the commission's availability of statistical tools on shipping is not a problem. delegated acts are more problematic but remain limited in terms of duration and scope. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which aimed to validate interinstitutional discussions to update the methods of data collection on goods by inland waterways. in particular, we wanted to put forward the idea of including statistics on passengers carried by inland waterways. an agreement was reached on the modalities (pilot studies).
in writing. ‒ this report enables the commission to collect statistical data on inland freight across the union's inland waterway network. the commission's collection of this information is not a problem. however, i am opposed to the part concerning the commission's regulatory power for delegated acts. i therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ the directive aims to establish a common legal framework for the 28 member states of the european union to eliminate disparities between the different legal systems applied and thus contribute to equal treatment of economic operators in the eu. the commission would retain the right to define the nature of the infringements, to determine whether they are minor or major, and to monitor and supervise the application of the regulation by the member states. i was against it because the problems of the internal market always follow the same logic. the member states have a common regulatory framework (eu) but the application of laws (transposition of directives, etc.) varies widely between member states, depending on the interests of some or the economic and political (in) capabilities of others. thus, distortions of competition are indeed commonplace within the single internal market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature. the chimerical implementation of a harmonized and homogeneous single internal market thus inevitably clashes with national and geographical realities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve the fight against breaches of eu customs legislation. in the eu, although customs legislation has been fully harmonised for almost 45 years, its application and the imposition of penalties are a matter for the national law of the member states. it is essential to bridge the gap between the different european legal systems through a common platform of rules and to improve the conditions of competition between economic operators in the customs union. divergent penalties pose problems for economic operators, and create unequal compliance costs and an administrative burden that make some member states more 'attractive' than others.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the report is to harmonise national implementations and different applications of community customs legislation, which is itself already harmonised in the context of the customs union. the application of this legislation and the legal imposition of penalties are still the responsibility of the member states and appear to be very disparate. the directive aims to establish a common legal framework for the 28 eu member states to eliminate disparities between the different legal systems applied and thus contribute to equal treatment of economic operators in the eu. the commission would retain the right to define the nature of the infringements and their minor or major character, as well as the control and supervision of the application of the regulation by the member states. the member states have a common regulatory framework, but the application of laws (transposition of directives, etc.) varies widely between member states, depending on the interests of some or the economic and political (in) capabilities of others. distortions of competition are commonplace in the single market, whether they are social, environmental, financial, economic or political. the dream of a harmonized and homogeneous single internal market is being shattered by national and geographical realities. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the directive aims to establish a common legal framework for the 28 (27) member states of the european union to eliminate disparities between the different legal systems applied and thus contribute to equal treatment of economic operators in the eu. the commission would retain the right to define the nature of the infringements, to determine whether they are minor or major, and to monitor and supervise the application of the regulation by the member states. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - final vote postponed, i was planning to vote against.
in writing. ‒ while i am aware that the disparities in penalties imposed on infringers of customs rules by the different states lead to disparities in competition, i am nevertheless firmly opposed to the commission taking upon itself the right to monitor and supervise the application of these rules by the member states. the solution lies more in seeking cooperation between member states. i therefore voted against the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to harmonise the way in which member states implement community customs legislation. to achieve this, the directive establishes a common legal framework for the 28 member states of the union in order to reduce disparities between the different legal systems, which would lead to distortions of competition within the single market. on the one hand, the european commission would, through this directive, claim the right to define the nature of infringements, the right to determine their degree of importance and the right to monitor the application of the regulation in each member state. on the other hand, distortions of competition resulting from disparities between national legal systems are far less harmful than those resulting from social, environmental and fiscal dumping practiced by certain member states within the european union itself. dumping which contributes to the acceleration of deindustrialization in western countries with the consequent increase in unemployment, poverty and social inequalities. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i support the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the union legal framework for customs offences and the sanctions applicable to them. it is inadmissible that the sanction for a customs offence in the union should depend on the frontier at which it was committed. in addition, the existence of different regimes is a hindrance to cooperation between national customs services. it creates potential differences in treatment which tarnish mutual trust between member states. with a common framework governing customs offences, the different customs services of the member states will operate within the same system, allowing them to cooperate in an optimal way.
in writing. the customs union is one of the first guarantees of the european single market, with its common customs tariff vis-à-vis third countries. its rules cover all aspects of trade policy, such as preferential trade, health and environmental controls, common agricultural and fisheries policies, and the protection of our economic interests through non-tariff instruments and external policy measures. these common rules must be applied by all member states. however, differences persist between member states as regards customs control procedures, the definition of customs offences, the legal nature of those offences, or the penalties applied, which may range from simple fines to imprisonment. these disparities can threaten the interests of europeans. the harmonization and simplification of these rules at european level is therefore a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this directive is to harmonise national implementations and the different applications of community customs legislation, which is already harmonised in the context of the customs union. the application of this legislation and the legal imposition of penalties are still the responsibility of the member states and appear to be very disparate. these national disparities provide an advantage to those who do not comply with the legislation in a member state with a lenient customs sanctions regime. the european commission therefore wishes to define the nature of the infringements, to determine whether they are minor or major and, finally, to monitor and supervise the application of the regulation by the member states. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. distortions of competition are commonplace within the single market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature. the dream of a harmonized and homogeneous single internal market is being shattered by national and geographical realities. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the wishful implementation of a harmonised and homogeneous single internal market is colliding with national and geographical realities.
in writing. ‒ mrs kallas' report is a typical example of the european union's tendency to centralize. the european union is a customs union: customs rules are community rules and provide a legal framework for controls and cooperation between national administrations. since the regulation is based on directives, and therefore on an obligation to produce results, its application, like the penalties for infringement, is the responsibility of the states (freedom of action). consequently, the definition of such offences and the sanction for them may vary from one member state to another depending on legal systems and administrative practices. the commission considered that this would create distortions of competition between international traders. to remedy this, european definitions are now being proposed, i.e. a harmonisation of criminal and administrative law, which goes far beyond the commission's prerogatives. the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article x (3) of the gatt agreements, which require each party to apply its customs legislation in a uniform manner. i cannot vote for an illegitimate harmonization under international dictates.
in writing. ‒ the eu is once again faced with the test of hard reality. while all member states are governed by the same regulatory framework, laws apply to them differently, given their different economic, political, social, environmental and financial make-up. the illusion of promoting a single and harmonised internal market thus stumbles on a heterogeneity of national characteristics. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kaja kallas on customs infringements and the sanctions applicable to them. i wanted to support this report, which aims to establish a harmonised legal framework that will put an end to disparities between the different economic operators in order to protect the financial interests of the union more effectively. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ in the previous mandate, i was rapporteur for the regulation on the union customs code, a genuine framework for the regulation of the flow of goods in europe, which we wanted to make both more modern and simpler, and more effective in terms of security. however, because of the differences in the understanding and implementation of its provisions between each of the 28 national customs authorities, the effectiveness of this reform i have brought could have been marked by many inconsistencies within the customs union and uncertainties for businesses. by voting in favour of the kallas report, we have thus shown our desire to make customs regulations more readable, by defining clearly the infringements and by introducing a common and fairer scale of sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the union legal framework governing customs offences and the sanctions applicable to them. the same logic is applied to the problems of the internal market. the member states have a common regulatory framework (eu) but the application of laws (transposition of directives, etc.) varies widely between member states, depending on the interests of some or the economic and political (in) capabilities of others. distortions of competition are commonplace within the single market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature. the dream of a harmonized and homogeneous single internal market is being shattered by national and geographical realities.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to harmonise national implementations and applications of community customs legislation. however, this harmonization does not take into account the social, environmental, financial, economic or political realities of the states. i therefore voted against this legislative proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this text. there is now a difference in the treatment of customs infringements, leading to unequal conditions of competition. in view of the very different application of customs sanctions, the text provides for the harmonisation of national legislation and community legislation by establishing a common legal framework for the 28 member states. the commission would then have full discretion to determine the nature of the infringements, their minor or major nature and, finally, the control and supervision of the application of the regulation by the member states. the european union is thus once again faced with the problems it is creating on its own! it provides for common frameworks, but the application differs between member states, depending on the interests of some or the economic and political (in) capabilities of others. the implementation of a harmonized and homogeneous single market is an illusion which we denounce.
in writing. ‒ the customs union does not have an integrated approach to the enforcement of its customs legislation. this means that the rules are the same but that when the rules are broken, the penalties applied differ considerably. this encourages importers to operate in the member states with the lowest penalties, thus creating a distortion of the market. to address this, the commission proposed in 2013 a directive on the union legal framework governing customs offences and the sanctions applicable to them. the report before us improves the commission's proposal by distinguishing between administrative and criminal sanctions, which remain subject to national legislation. but in the end, the directive is a major infringement of the judiciary. the directive sets minimum and maximum penalties and lists possible aggravating and mitigating circumstances. it also sets out how judges will have to calculate fines, leaving no room for manoeuvre for judicial institutions. for these reasons, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to harmonise national implementations and applications of community customs legislation. however, this harmonization does not take into account the social, environmental, financial, economic or political realities of the states. i therefore voted against this legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the directive is to harmonise national implementations and the different applications of community customs legislation, which is itself already harmonised in the context of the customs union. the directive therefore aims to establish a common legal framework for the 28 member states of the european union to eliminate disparities between the different legal systems applied and thus contribute to equal treatment of economic operators in the eu. the commission would retain the right to define the nature of the infringements, to determine whether they are minor or major, and to monitor and supervise the application of the regulation by the member states. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the text was not finally put to the vote, as it was postponed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the legal framework of the union for customs offences and the penalties applicable thereto. while customs regulations are already harmonised throughout the european union (the union customs code), the same is not true of their application by the 28 member states. the directive proposes, for example, a common scale of sanctions for customs infringements, while preserving the discretion and sovereignty of the states.
in writing. ‒ the same logic is applied to the internal market. member states have a common regulatory framework (eu) but the application of laws (transposition of directives, etc.) varies widely between member states, depending on the interests of some or the economic and political (in) capabilities of others. distortions of competition are indeed commonplace within the single market itself, whether they are of a social, environmental, financial, economic or political nature. the dream of a harmonized and homogeneous single internal market is being shattered by national and geographical realities. i therefore oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade, i welcome the fact that we were able to participate on customs matters, which are normally reserved for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. this approach has been effective and complementary. i voted for this report because it is indeed important to take account of the place of the internal market in a global context. because our partners have already pointed out the inconsistencies in our internal market. we can learn from them. we will put in place a major strategy to combat crime which will give a direction to the economic world of the european union. this type of initiative is useful in bringing coherence to both the internal market and our external trade. because our customs are doing a great job, but they must be able to rely on flexibility and rigour which is not uniform across europe. let us support such initiatives with the aims of simplification, harmonisation, fairness and firmness, which must be highlighted in order to give a better understanding of the challenges facing the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the harmonisation of customs sanctions in the european union. the customs union is one of the pillars of the internal market and one of the oldest integrated policies of the european union. however, it suffers from a paradox: while the rules are common, infringement does not lead to the same sanctions in different member states. this highly disparate situation therefore leads to fraud that is more difficult to control and to customs dumping. the result is a shortfall for the european budget. the harmonization of sanctions thus contributes to the balancing and improvement of the functioning of the internal market. the report therefore sends a strong signal as to the position of parliament on this matter, whereas the council is reluctant. for all these reasons, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the harmonisation of the approach to the application of customs legislation, particularly as regards penalties for infringements. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the provisions of the customs code to the processing of goods in the customs territory of the union. this leads to inconsistency in the application of eu legislation and permanent uncertainty for businesses. this new directive is therefore important for consolidating the customs union, which is one of the founding and central elements of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the logic of implementing the single market through the harmonisation of customs sanctions to promote better competition on the market. it is clear that these legal differences in customs sanctions are due to the intrinsic differences between the countries of the european union. moreover, distortions of competition are indeed commonplace within the single internal market itself. the dream of a harmonized and homogeneous single internal market is being shattered by national and geographical realities. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget no 3 for 2016 which refers to the new security needs identified by the eu institutions following the recent terrorist attacks. the commission is proposing to increase the security budget by a total of eur 15.8 million for the european schools, the parliament, the commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. as far as the european parliament is concerned, the draft amending budget aims to create 35 additional permanent posts for the recruitment of security officers. these posts should be exempted from the 5% staff reduction target because they correspond to a new activity.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 3 for 2016 proposes to increase the security budget of many eu institutions, following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and brussels in march 2016, by eur 15.8 million. eur 3.5 million for the protection of the european schools, eur 200 000 for the european parliament and the recruitment of 35 new security guards to provide armed protection of sensitive points on the three parliament sites, eur 5 million for the security of commission buildings and staff. finally, 2.5 million is allocated to the european external action service, 2.1 million to the court of auditors, 1.8 million to the court of justice of the european union... however, the financing of these additional appropriations is ensured by redeploying the available appropriations from the iter operational line, in order to avoid any overall impact on the level of payments. i abstained on this text, considering that it might lead in the long run to an increase in permanent posts even if the terrorist risk were to decrease considerably.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending budget because, in the light of the attacks on the european institutions in march 2016, it is necessary to review the security needs of the various institutions.
in writing. ‒ this text may lead to the creation of permanent posts by recruiting new security officers, a cost which would then be carried forward each year, even if the terrorist risk decreases. in addition, staff could have been reassigned without increasing the number of staff in the eu institutions. however, considering that this is a redistribution of appropriations between headings without new budgetary impulses, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns draft amending budget no 3 for 2016 and proposes to strengthen the security budget of many eu institutions following the attacks in paris and brussels. the amount is estimated at eur 15.8 million in total, provided by a redeployment of the available appropriations from the iter operational line. we cannot vote against it in the name of security, but this text may lead to the creation of permanent posts by the recruitment of new security officers, a cost which would then be postponed every year, even if the terrorist risk decreases. however, this report has no budgetary implications and i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - i am very much in favour of strengthening the security of the european institutions, which are obvious targets of terrorism. i think, however, that this objective could have been achieved without creating permanent posts. if this does not affect the overall budget for this year, it will not do so for subsequent years. for all these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2016 aims to increase the budget for security in many european institutions by eur 15.8 million, following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and in brussels in march 2016. the financing of these additional appropriations is, of course, ensured by a redeployment of the available appropriations in order to avoid any overall impact on the level of payments. however, this draft amending budget calls for the recruitment of new security officers. the creation of new permanent posts will entail an annual cost. it would have been preferable to reassign staff without increasing the number of staff. i did, however, abstain on this text, which is intended to strengthen security within the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 3 for 2016 proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to the security of many eu institutions, following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and in brussels in march 2016, by eur 15.8 million. this is the protection of the european schools, the three sites of the european parliament (brussels, strasbourg, luxembourg) and the commission. if you cannot vote against this text, at the risk of being accused of seeking to compromise the security of the european institutions, it risks leading to the creation of permanent posts by recruiting new security officers, a cost which would then be postponed every year, even if the terrorist risk decreased. in addition, staff could have been reassigned without increasing the number of staff in the eu institutions. however, considering that this is a redistribution of appropriations between headings without new budgetary impulses, it is possible to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ abstention: considering that this is a redistribution of appropriations between headings without new budgetary impulses, it is possible to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ in my view, this draft amendment risks increasing the cost of securing our institutions by increasing staff numbers and passing the cost on year after year. it would have been better to have had a better allocation of staff. however, i do not intend to vote against a measure which is concerned with the security of the institutions, even if its budgetary management can be improved. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez on the security of the institutions. following the tragic attacks in paris and brussels, it was important that we strengthen the security of public buildings in the union which are potential targets. the report will increase the security budget of several european institutions by a total of €15.8 million. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on draft amending budget no 3/2016: security of the institutions. the draft amending budget proposes to increase the security budget of many eu institutions, following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and brussels in march 2016, by eur 15.8 million. the breakdown is as follows: €3.5 million for the protection of the european schools, €200,000 for the european parliament and the recruitment of 35 new security guards to provide armed protection of sensitive points on the three parliamentary sites, €5 million for the security of commission buildings and staff. finally, 2.5 million is allocated to the european external action service, 2.1 million to the court of auditors, 1.8 million to the court of justice of the european union, etc. ensuring the security of all these places is very important, but this text risks creating permanent posts by recruiting new security officers, a cost that would then be carried over every year, even if the terrorist risk decreased.
in writing. ‒ this budgetary correction no 3 for 2016 is devoted to strengthening the security budget of many eu institutions, amounting to eur 15.8 million, through redeployment of available appropriations. although this change does not affect the overall size of the budget, there is a concern that the new security posts created will be carried over each year, even if the terrorist risk is reduced. i therefore abstained on this draft amending budget.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the text proposes to increase the security budget of several european institutions, following the attacks of 2015 and 2016. the amount envisaged is eur 15.8 million. we are of course in favour of the establishment of effective mechanisms to combat terrorism, but we are opposed to the creation of permanent posts, because then the cost would be deferred every year, whatever the circumstances. however, this is a redistribution of appropriations between headings: there are no new budgetary impulses. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this amending eu budget for 2016 aims to provide additional means for the security of the european institutions in the context of the terrorist threat, in particular in france and belgium. the need to ensure the safety of institutions and those who work in them can hardly be disputed on the merits. but why was it not taken into account earlier, when the 2016 budget was adopted and even more so in the two amending budgets already voted in 2016? unfortunately, the terrorist threat was already known. i therefore regret once again the budgetary unpredictability of the eu. the commission prepares the budget and the council adopts it. the proposed budgets, obscured by dogmatic austerity criteria, do not respond to the most basic emergencies of the moment. i also regret that the union is concerned here only with treating the symptoms of terrorism rather than with addressing its geopolitical causes. however, in order not to deprive the institutions and their employees of any useful protection, i shall nevertheless vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this budgetary correction no 3 for 2016 is devoted to strengthening the security budget of many eu institutions, amounting to eur 15.8 million, through redeployment of available appropriations. although this change does not affect the overall size of the budget, there is a concern that the new security posts created will be carried over each year even if the terrorist risk decreases. i therefore abstained on this draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 3 for 2016 proposes to increase the security budget of many eu institutions, following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and brussels in march 2016, by eur 15.8 million. the financing of these additional appropriations is ensured by redeploying the available appropriations from the iter operational line, in order to avoid any overall impact on the level of payments. if we cannot afford to vote against this bill, it risks creating permanent jobs by recruiting new security officers, a cost that would then be deferred every year, even if the terrorist risk decreased. it would have been possible to reallocate staff without increasing the number of staff in the eu institutions. however, considering that this is a redistribution of appropriations between headings without new budgetary impulses, he will call for us to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 3 for 2016 proposes to increase the security budget of many eu institutions by eur 15.8 million following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and in brussels in march 2016. the text risks creating permanent posts by recruiting new security officers, a cost which would then be carried forward each year, even if the terrorist risk decreases. in order to ensure the necessary security, it was possible to reassign staff without increasing the number of staff in the union institutions. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 3 for 2016 proposes to increase the security budget of many eu institutions following the attacks in paris in november 2015 and brussels in march 2016 by €15.8 million. the text risks creating permanent posts by recruiting new security officers, a cost which would then be carried over each year, even if the terrorist risk were to decrease. in addition, staff could have been reassigned without increasing the number of staff in the eu institutions. however, considering that this is a redistribution of appropriations between headings without any new budgetary impulses and that security is currently a major issue, i do not reject this text and prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which proposes to increase the budget for the security of certain european institutions. it is only right that citizens and staff of these institutions, especially in brussels for example, should be given greater protection.
in writing. ‒ this text provides for the creation of new posts for new security officers for the european institutions due to the risks related to terrorism. this is a redistribution of appropriations between headings without new budgetary impulses and it is a fact that the european union cannot afford this in these times of economic crisis and over-indebtedness of the states. it would have been possible to adjust staffing without increasing the number of staff in the eu institutions. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my socialist colleagues in favour of the howitt report on the european strategy towards iran. we share most of the recommendations in the report, which lays the foundations for iran's reintegration into the international community. the european union must be open, while remaining clear-eyed about the regional and internal situation in iran. that is why we voted in favour of the amendment explicitly making the development of economic relations conditional on progress in the field of human rights, women's rights and freedom of expression. this conditionality complements that relating to compliance with the nuclear agreement. our line is clear: all our relations with the countries of the region must be aimed at respecting and protecting the security and safety of the peoples of the middle east and europe.
in writing. ‒ this report by the european parliament was drawn up in response to the iran-us nuclear deal. like all european texts on foreign affairs, this report is an attack on the sovereignty of states. however, it should be noted that the british labour representative mr howitt has made a relatively honest report, particularly on human rights issues. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ following the iran nuclear deal and internal political developments in iran, opportunities for reform and improved relations with the european union now exist for iran. this improvement is achieved, in particular, through better sectoral cooperation, ultimately ensuring regional security and better respect for human rights. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - that's a balanced and common sense report. iran is a great country and the heir to this great persian civilization which, in the years to come, can and must play a leading role in the middle east in order to counterbalance the predominant influence of the sunni countries of the muslim world. yes, the nuclear deal must bring iran back into the concert of nations. yes, a large economy like iran must be allowed to join the wto. let us welcome this opening, even if everything is not perfect today in tehran. the rapporteur is right to point out the imperfections of the iranian political and legal system. it is true that iran is not yet a state governed by the rule of law as we conceive it. too many political prisoners are still languishing in iranian jails. but is it any different in the other countries of the region? is saudi arabia, our great ally, a state of law? what about yemen? what about turkey? what about qatar?
in writing. ‒ this report welcomes the success of the iran nuclear deal and calls on the european union to step up its trade relations with iran. we certainly welcome the lifting of the embargo on iran and the improvement in diplomatic and economic relations between iran and the west. however, it is essential to recall that the joint comprehensive plan of action is mainly the result of bilateral negotiations between the united states and iran. the european union had once again demonstrated that it had no diplomatic legitimacy in foreign policy. the report also repeatedly undermines iran's sovereignty, calling for a moratorium on the death penalty and for the liberalisation of its economy in order to accelerate its accession to the world trade organisation. i did, however, abstain on this text, which looks with serenity at the future of relations between the european union and iran.
in writing. ‒ the nuclear agreement in iran and the country's internal political developments offer the european union and iran an opportunity to initiate greater cooperation in various fields. this cooperation will have to go hand in hand with the implementation of the nuclear agreement. it is important that this agreement is properly implemented by the stakeholders. it is also essential that further progress and political reforms are made in iran, including on human rights and the abolition of the death penalty. i voted for this report, but i voted against certain amendments concerning human rights. although some of them reflect my position on human rights and the death penalty, their substance is already reflected in the text.
in writing. ‒ the draft report aims to normalise relations between the european union and iran after the signing of the vienna nuclear agreements in july 2015. the report as it has been voted on is good, balanced and relatively complete. it makes recommendations for enhanced political dialogue, economic and trade cooperation, better cooperation on regional security in the middle east and negotiations on social issues such as the rule of law, democracy and human rights. the eleven amendments i tabled, in particular those relating to the current iranian regime and iran's foreign policy, were adopted in the committee on foreign affairs and have made it possible to improve the content of the text considerably. i did not vote in favour of certain amendments relating to human rights when the vote was taken in plenary. most of these amendments have already been incorporated several times in the text. the others are not intended to be included in this type of report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union's strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement signed on 14 july 2015. while recalling our concerns and differences on the death penalty, particularly for minors, and on human rights, this report lays the foundations for the future relationship between the european union and iran and identifies common priorities, namely strengthening political dialogue, trade and cooperation in the field of energy, aviation security, migration, regional issues, the fight against drugs, and education, research and innovation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the final version of this report, which sets out a number of principles for the framework of the european union's relations with iran after the nuclear agreement, the issue of human rights, respect for women and freedom of expression having been introduced at the end of the parliamentary drafting. iran is a key player in the region. it must be able to constitute, beyond the mere status of an economic and commercial partner, a factor of stability and a force for peace, but its governance must evolve towards a genuine republic which is not under the influence of the religious in power.
in writing. the signing of the nuclear deal in 2015 by iran marked a turning point in relations between the country and the international community. the union must take this opportunity to lay the foundations for a renewed partnership with tehran. the dialogue must be comprehensive, cooperative, critical and constructive. the union has the opportunity to renew and develop its economic, trade and energy relations with iran. the normalization of diplomatic relations with the iranian government would encourage the country to support international initiatives aimed at finding political solutions to the conflicts in the region. iran is an influential player and its mediation could prove valuable in resolving the syrian crisis. this does not mean that iran has not yet fulfilled its human rights obligations. 966 executions were recorded in 2015, some of which involved individuals who were minors at the time of the executions, in contravention of the international convention on the rights of the child, to which iran is a party.
in writing. ‒ this report is the european parliament's reaction to the iran-us nuclear deal. it is an attack on our sovereignty, as are all the other reports of the european union on foreign affairs. i did not, however, vote in favour of the report, given the unusual honesty of the report on the substance of the matter.
in writing. ‒ abstention: this report, like all eu reports on foreign affairs, is an attack on the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal. this agreement is a notable achievement of multilateral diplomacy, and european diplomacy in particular, which will improve eu-iran relations, but also contribute to stability in the whole region. all parties are now responsible for its strict and full implementation; i hope that it will be applied scrupulously. eu-iran cooperation, including in the field of energy, should have as a systematic objective to improve environmental, social and economic benefits both in iran and in the eu. while i condemn iran's frequent use of the death penalty and other human rights abuses, it is essential to build a genuine dialogue between the eu and iran. finally, i should like to point out that i voted against certain amendments tabled by other political groups because they merely took up what was already in the report, particularly with regard to the defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ like all eu foreign affairs reports, this one undermines the sovereignty of the member states and iran. i would like to point out, however, that mr howitt's honest work is bound to be controversial. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague richard howitt on the eu strategy towards iran following the nuclear deal. this text is a first step towards normalising relations with iran for a better implementation of the iran nuclear deal signed in 2015. i support this initiative, which demonstrates the eu's willingness to deepen and broaden its relations with iran in many areas without leaving any room for our competitors. the agreement thus provides for enhanced economic and trade cooperation, improved cooperation on regional security and negotiations on social issues such as human rights, a prerequisite for the signature of the text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to give a new impetus to relations between the european union and iran. this will allow us to strengthen our economic and commercial links with that country in the long term. it is important to emphasize that this relationship, frankly, will not obscure the issues on which we have profound differences, for example, human rights.
in writing. ‒ iran has gradually established itself as a key player in the middle east. the demographic and energy power of the region, iran managed the feat of dealing simultaneously with the united states in iraq and with the russians in syria. its positioning is not without criticism, but from damascus in syria to sanaa in yemen to hezbollah in lebanon, iran is part of the political solution to the ongoing conflicts. the gradual lifting of sanctions following the nuclear agreement is allowing it to return to the international scene and, in the long term, this is a huge market that can reopen to european companies. this commercial enthusiasm must not, however, blind us to the need for progress on human rights and for iran to be held accountable in the diplomatic arena. this great country must now use its renewed status as a regional power to stabilise the region and progress must be made in the area of human rights. that is why, if i supported the text, i also supported the amendments calling for the release of political prisoners, the stopping of executions of minors, and a link between improving human rights and economic relations.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the iranian nuclear deal is a success. we are therefore once again witnessing the recklessness of the european union which seems to ignore that foreign affairs remain the responsibility of national governments. the resolution is therefore an attack on our sovereignty. the agreement, which was concluded by the united states, is also aimed at its own interests. the rapporteur, on the other hand, has drawn up a fairly honest report, not giving in to pressure from the liberals and the greens on the human rights issue.
in writing. ‒ in july 2015, the members of the un security council and iran finally reached an agreement. it provides for the lifting of sanctions imposed on iran by the united states, the european union and the united nations; in return, iran is curtailing its nuclear program. this report supports the agreement and the normalisation of relations with iran. the aim is, of course, to encourage european companies to enter this new market, particularly in the energy and transport sectors. i regret that he does not ask the same of the united states and congratulate iran's agreement with boeing or support the country's accession to the wto! the report strongly supports a strengthened dialogue with iran, ending the international isolation of a key regional player in the fight against terrorism and extremism in syria, iraq and saudi arabia. but it remains ineffective and silent on the islamic republic's actions against individual freedoms and its involvement in the causes of war in the middle east. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report is an attack on our sovereignty, as are all the union's reports on foreign affairs. however, it should be noted that mr howitt has made a fairly honest report. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced text on the relationship between the european union and iran following the agreement reached on the iranian nuclear deal. the resolution stresses the many steps iran has taken to normalise its relationship with the eu and regain its place in the international community. it also condemns in the strongest terms, through the amendments which i have supported, the calls for the destruction of israel by some of the iranian leaders. she advocates for women's rights and against the death penalty. finally, i opposed several amendments tabled by the liberals, including those on women's rights, on the sole ground that their content was already in the original text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. i share the analysis that the european union must step up its diplomatic efforts to promote a de-escalation of tensions between iran and saudi arabia, with a view in particular to a resolution of the civil war in syria. it also seems to me essential to strengthen the dialogue between the eu and iran on the issue of human rights, with the priority objective of ending the death penalty. in view of the efforts of the european union to reach an agreement on the nuclear issue with iran, we now have the channels for discussion for a constructive relationship between the eu and iran.
in writing. ‒ the european union has no legitimacy to engage in diplomacy. i am opposed to this report on the basis of this principle.
in writing. ‒ as the epp rapporteur on the subject in the committee on international trade, i am very sensitive to the issue of relations with iran. this country has tremendous potential for our companies. in fact, many have been successful and have already won many contracts. it is important to continue to invest in this market to help it return to normal relations. this does not mean that we should be naive and turn a blind eye to the situation of human rights in general and women's rights in particular. but our role is to be present as we have been in this country for a long time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is unfair that the united states should be able to punish european companies for investments which american companies themselves make! i would like to stress the very high quality of my colleague pierre lellouche's report to the national assembly on the subject of extraterritorial laws.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the guidelines for the european union's strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement was signed on 15 july 2015. it should be stressed that this agreement is a breakthrough in european diplomacy and opens up relations between the european union and iran. the report recalls that the progress in relations between the union and iran must go hand in hand with the implementation of this agreement. the agreement provides an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between the two partners in economic, commercial and energy matters. the development of relations between the union and iran must also have as a priority objective the stabilisation of the region. it is essential that a frank, structured and regular political dialogue be established to address all these areas of cooperation. i also supported this report because it not only calls for a moratorium on the death penalty in iran, especially for minors, but also because it condemns the violations of democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights, especially with regard to the situation of women.
in writing. ‒ following the nuclear agreement reached by iran with the major powers, it was necessary for the european union to review its strategy with iran. the original draft was unbalanced in substance, in that it provided for unconditional cooperation, on the one hand making the european union solely responsible for compliance with the nuclear agreement, and on the other hand economic cooperation without any conditions. the parts of the text dealing with respect for human rights in iran and regional security were less developed than those on economic cooperation. the report put to the vote in parliament reinforced the section on human rights and regional security and recalled certain responsibilities regarding iran's role in the region and the human rights situation. our group also added amendments on political prisoners and media surveillance, rebalancing and strengthening the rapporteur's resolution, and i therefore voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ we had voted 11 resolutions on the human rights situation in iran during the last term. not one under this one. the trade and energy opportunities opened up to the eu by the lifting of sanctions, which have taken place in the meantime, are certainly not new. the report, which focuses on the eu's strategy with iran after the nuclear deal, has the merit of detailing the catastrophic human rights situation in the country. it stressed in particular the need to link the resumption of relations to a human rights dialogue involving representatives of the judiciary, the security forces and civil society. it is not possible to deny iran's role in this region of the world and i would even say that it is in the eu's interest to achieve a better balance in its relations with the middle east. i therefore voted in favour, but i am surprised at the negative vote by some of my colleagues who are usually less committed to human rights, hoping to see the same commitment to respect for human rights in relations with other countries in the region, such as saudi arabia, for example. but i'm not under any illusions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority: europe must have a sustained comprehensive strategy to deal with the increasing prevalence of organised crime and corruption in the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls the ideas and recommendations set out in the resolution of 23 october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it called in particular for the adoption of a european action plan to combat such crimes, which should be endowed with sufficient financial resources and qualified staff to be effective. the text provides a relevant analysis of the extent of organised crime in all its forms, as well as links between organised crime and terrorism, human trafficking, etc. however, rather than encouraging closer cooperation between member states, the report advocates europeanist solutions. he advocates the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, eu membership of greco (group of states against corruption, as if the eu were a state), etc. in addition, it is also said that the lack of legal migration channels and barriers to access to justice are among the main causes of trafficking in human beings. organized crime is being used to some extent to strengthen the eu and to encourage more immigration from outside the eu. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that today there is a need to adopt a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, with sufficient financial resources and qualified staff to be effective.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls the ideas and recommendations set out in its resolution of 23 october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it called in particular for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which should be endowed with sufficient financial resources and qualified staff to be effective. in addition, it is also said that the lack of legal migration channels and barriers to access to justice are among the main causes of trafficking in human beings. this is how organised crime is being used to strengthen the eu and encourage more immigration from outside europe: so i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution, and recalls the ideas and recommendations presented in the european parliament resolution of 23 october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the report calls for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which should be endowed with sufficient financial resources and qualified staff to be effective. the analysis is relevant but the solution is europeanist, to the detriment of cooperation between member states. here, the report uses crime to strengthen the eu and encourage more immigration from outside the eu. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ rather than encouraging closer cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime, the report advocates european solutions. he is in particular advocating the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which i strongly oppose. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the resolution of 23 october 2013 and calls for the development of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the report does indeed provide a relevant analysis of the extent of organised crime in all its forms. however, instead of encouraging member states to strengthen their cooperation in the fight against organised crime, the european union prefers, as usual, to create bureaucratic structures, which are costly for the taxpayer and whose effectiveness has yet to be demonstrated. the report also uses organised crime as a pretext for strengthening the power of the european institutions. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the recommendations made by the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering during the last mandate, which sets out a comprehensive action plan of measures to be implemented to combat organised crime in europe. i am certainly sorry that, as is too often the case in texts which are not legally binding, some political groups advocate measures which are sometimes unrealistic and which undermine the principle of subsidiarity in europe. however, many of the proposals in this text are crucial at a time when organised crime and money laundering are particularly beneficial to terrorist organisations which pose a serious security threat to our member states. i therefore reaffirm in particular my support for the creation of an efficient european public prosecutor's office in europe, but also the duty of the member states to step up cross-border police and judicial cooperation and the exchange of information between themselves and through europol and eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the fight against corruption. i believe that it is essential to put in place european measures to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as these practices do not take into account borders. they are a real scourge of our societies and effective measures to eradicate them are urgently needed.
in writing. this evaluation report on the state of organised crime, corruption and money laundering in europe paints an alarming picture of the situation in the union. this is why the member states must quickly embark on the task of moralizing public life. part of the answer lies at european level; the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to ensure that the criminal organisations concerned are able to take advantage of the lack of coordination between member states. the european agencies such as frontex, europol and eurojust must be equipped with sufficient means to combat these networks. and a european prosecutor's office to combat offences affecting the financial interests of the union, as provided for in the community treaties, must be set up quickly.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls the ideas and recommendations set out in the resolution of 23 october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the text is clear on the extent of organised crime in all its forms, as well as the links between organised crime, terrorism and trafficking in human beings. however, instead of encouraging closer cooperation between states in the fight against organised crime, the report advocates, among other things, the creation of a european public prosecutor's office or the eu's accession to greco (group of states against corruption) as if the eu were a state. in addition, the report deplores the lack of legal migration channels as a cause of human trafficking. organized crime does not have to be used to strengthen the eu and encourage more immigration from outside europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: rather than encouraging closer cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime, the report advocates european solutions. he advocates the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, eu membership of greco (group of states against corruption, as if the eu were a state), etc.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the quality of mrs ferrara's report on the scale of organised crime, in whatever form, and its links to terrorism or human trafficking. however, the solution it proposes is false and manipulative: instead of encouraging cooperation between member states, the report wants to entrust the management of this fight to the sole benefit of the eu, for example by creating a european public prosecutor's office and by making the eu a member state of the group of states against corruption. finally, i denounce the scandalous use of organised crime to justify the consolidation of the eu and to increase immigration. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report on the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution is very positive overall. i simply wish to explain why i voted against paragraph 42 (b) of this report. although i support the idea of temporarily banning people convicted of corruption from holding public office or running for election, the wording of paragraph 42 (b) is unfortunately not clear and precise enough. as it is drafted, it also applies to persons who have participated in acts of corruption, which does not correspond to a well-defined category and thus undermines legal certainty. it would have been more fair to limit this proposal to only those 'convicted' of corruption or organised crime. furthermore, the wording of paragraph 42 (b) is not sufficiently precise in that it may concern any person who is the subject of a conviction, whether or not it is related to corruption. such a reading of the text could, for example, prevent certain environmental or trade union activists from running for office or holding public office, which is obviously too restrictive and contrary to the aim pursued.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague laura ferrara on the follow-up to the report on organised crime. the report, adopted in may 2016, makes proposals for new forms of crime, whistleblower protection and environmental crime. the vote calls for the adoption of a concrete european action plan to eradicate organised crime, money laundering and corruption. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up to the crim resolution. the report calls for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which should be endowed with sufficient financial resources and qualified staff to be effective. the text provides a relevant analysis of the extent of organised crime in all its forms, as well as links between organised crime and terrorism, human trafficking, etc. however, rather than encouraging closer cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime, the report advocates europeanist solutions. he advocates the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, eu membership of greco (group of states against corruption, as if the eu were a state), etc. in addition, it is also said that the lack of legal migration channels and barriers to access to justice are among the main causes of trafficking in human beings. organised crime is used to strengthen the eu and encourage immigration from outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. however, this objective is being diverted to promote the eu, to the detriment of enhanced cooperation between member states. this instrumentalisation of the fight against organised crime led me to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text calls for the adoption of a european action plan to combat and suppress organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the plan should then have sufficient financial resources and qualified staff. the analysis of the extent of crime is relevant but we are opposed to europeanist solutions, whereby closer cooperation between member states would allow both greater efficiency and the guarantee of respect for national sovereignty. for example, the text calls for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and the eu's accession to greco (group of states against corruption), which we oppose. finally, there is mention of the lack of legal migration channels . there is an instrumentalisation of organised crime to strengthen the eu, and encourage ever more extra-european immigration.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the adoption of a 'european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering'. there are some good points in this report. it encourages member states to set up a european protection programme for whistleblowers and witnesses. it recommends that the european union should join the group of states against corruption (greco). but it also calls for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, another supranational body to which i am opposed. finally, and most importantly, he says nothing about the cases of conflict of interest that may raise suspicions of corruption within the european institutions themselves, whether it be the case of former commissioners josé manuel barroso and neelie kroes or the role of the current president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, in the system of tax fraud in place in luxembourg. i abstain on this hypocritical text
in writing. ‒ the report aims to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. however, this objective is being diverted to promote the union, to the detriment of closer cooperation between member states. this instrumentalisation of the fight against organised crime led me to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls the ideas and recommendations set out in the european parliament resolution of 23 october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it called for the adoption of a european action plan on these issues, which should be endowed with sufficient financial resources and qualified staff to be effective. the text provides a relevant analysis of the extent of organised crime in all its forms, as well as links between organised crime and terrorism, human trafficking, etc. however, rather than encouraging cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime, the report advocates europeanist solutions. he advocates the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, the eu's membership of greco (group of states against corruption, as if the eu were a state), etc. in addition, it is also said that 'the lack of legal migration channels and barriers to access to justice are among the main causes of trafficking in human beings'. organized crime is being used to strengthen the eu and encourage more immigration from outside the eu. we will vote against it.
in writing. ‒ rather than encouraging closer cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime, the report advocates european solutions. he advocated the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, the union's accession to greco, etc. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the fight against corruption and organised crime in the union. the text calls for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the european union's legislation must be adapted to better deal with the new forms of organised crime, which are often cross-border.
in writing. ‒ this report recalls the ideas and recommendations set out in the resolution of 23 october 2013. it called in particular for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which should be endowed with sufficient financial resources and qualified staff to be effective. the text provides a relevant analysis of the extent of organised crime in all its forms, as well as links between organised crime and terrorism, trafficking in human beings, etc. however, rather than encouraging closer cooperation between member states in the fight against organised crime, the report unsurprisingly advocates ever more europe. it advocates the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, the union's membership of greco (group of states against corruption, as if the union were a state), etc. in addition, it is also said that 'the lack of legal migration channels and barriers to access to justice are among the main causes of trafficking in human beings'. the fight against organised crime is thus instrumentalised to strengthen the union and to put in place procedures which further favour immigration. in these circumstances, i shall vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ corruption, organised crime and money laundering must be eradicated within the european union. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the adoption of a european action plan to combat these scourges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes stock of the implementation of the european parliament's 2013 recommendations on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the report calls on the european commission to ensure the proper transposition of existing legislation, to monitor its application and to assess its effectiveness. the text calls for the development of minimum rules on the definition of crimes such as corruption, participation in criminal organisations and money laundering and the related sanctions. in this respect, it is crucial and urgent that judicial and police cooperation at union level be made more effective. member states should therefore enter, use and exchange all data deemed necessary concerning persons convicted of an offence related to organised crime. finally, i supported this report because it calls for measures to be taken directly against criminal organisations, such as the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. however, rather than encouraging closer cooperation between member states, the report advocates europeanist solutions. he argued in particular for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and insisted that too few migration channels lead to too much clandestinity. so we need more official channels, and therefore more immigration. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report makes a number of strong proposals which i strongly support. among them i would mention the recommendation that the eu should join greco as a full member, the insistence that the eu institutions should set an example in transparency and ensure that there are effective and dissuasive sanctions in this area, and the need to better regulate lobbying. i also particularly welcome the fact that the text calls for a legislative proposal for the protection of whistleblowers before the end of 2017. while all these proposals explain why i voted in favour of this text, i would nevertheless like to express my reservations about the possibility of punishing an association of criminals regardless of the crimes committed, because it is conducive to many deviations. i also warn against the increased risk of under-utilization of european funds if the prior investigations advocated in this report were implemented. as for the proposal to encourage the rotation of officials under the pretext of preventing corruption, it seems to me to be completely ineffective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament expresses its deep concern at the serious human rights violations suffered by many migrants in many countries of transit or destination. we call on governments to do everything possible to ensure that the dignity and human rights of migrants are respected.
in writing. ‒ with this report, the european union, true to its wrong principles, is trying to force non-member countries, which are forced to suffer the effects of german immigration policy, to adopt european standards in terms of the rights of illegal immigrants. i agree with my colleagues from the national front that this is a serious attack on the sovereignty of third countries and member states by the eu. that is why i have logically opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu is trying to force non-eu countries to bear the effects of german immigration policy and to adopt european standards in terms of illegal immigrants' rights. i voted against because it is obviously a major attack on the sovereignty of third countries, in the same way that the union in other circumstances attacks the sovereignty of the member states in the name of a crazy immigration policy.
in writing. ‒ europe will not be able to control the migratory flows that former french president valéry giscard d'estaing, the spiritual father of the abortive european constitution, once described as an invasion, by creating additional legal pathways for immigration - there are some in all the countries of the union. that is why this report is full of an angelicism which our citizens no longer want. even on the left, more and more voices are saying that migrants have not only rights, but also duties. the rapporteur seems to be living on another planet, even if she timidly dares to suggest that we must create the conditions necessary to enable refugees to stay close to their countries of origin and that the root causes of migration must be tackled. migrants are the first victims, they have to live like uprooted people in a culture that is not theirs and they are not given any means to acquire it.
in writing. ‒ this report by the communist member of parliament, mrs vergiat, concerns human rights and migration to third countries. the european union is forcing non-eu countries to suffer the effects of german immigration policy. this is an infringement of the sovereignty of third states as much as of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to require member states to put pressure on non-member states, but to force them to adopt european standards on the rights of illegal immigrants. i am firmly opposed to this major infringement of the sovereignty of these third states, as well as to the infringement of the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in total violation of the sovereignty of non-eu member states, this report aims to force third countries to take their share of responsibility in the distribution of illegal migrants present in italy and greece in particular. the european union has no legitimacy to impose its insane migration policy on the member states, a policy which is, moreover, the exclusive responsibility of national governments. the european union therefore has no power to compel the national authorities of a third country to accept quotas of illegal migrants. i therefore voted against this scandalous report which seriously undermines the sovereignty of third countries.
in writing. i rejected this text, which has no binding legislative value, on human rights and migration to third countries. the report has the major flaw of not distinguishing between refugees, asylum seekers and migrants, whereas these statutes confer different rights and obligations. the text, which was defended by the left-wing groups, then formulated a series of ideologised proposals that are inadequate to the realities of the migration crisis in europe. we have always defended, and continue to defend, respect for human rights in all circumstances, particularly in the field of migration. but the proposals in this text, which encourage family reunification, criticise the forced return of irregular migrants and call for the opening up of legal migration routes to europe, run counter to my political convictions.
in writing. ‒ this text is a consequence of german immigration policy. it aims to oblige third countries to adopt european standards in terms of the rights of illegal immigrants. this is of course a major infringement of the sovereignty of third countries as well as of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this is of course a major infringement of the sovereignty of third countries as well as of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the title of ms vergiat's report is a pretext for singing the praises of immigration, a good thing for migrants themselves, for the host countries and for the countries of origin. its basic axiom is: 'everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own'. it is true that dictatorships, especially communist dictatorships, have always narrowly limited the possibility of obtaining passports to a handful of apparatchiks, the vast majority of the population being in a sense under house arrest. but freedom of movement is not an absolute right to emigrate and settle wherever one wishes in order to enjoy the many rights listed by ms vergiat (education, employment, housing, health, etc.). western societies, already overwhelmed, cannot cope. ms vergiat advocates that developing countries hosting displaced people should align themselves with the lax and outrageously generous regulations of the european union, even as they struggle to guarantee these rights to their own citizens. i demand for them what i demand for my country: the right to choose whether or not to accept migrants and to discriminate in favour of their own nationals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against mrs vergiat's report, which fails to achieve its objectives and multiplies the incantations but does not propose an acceptable and realistic solution. rather than emphasising the need for cooperation between the eu and third countries in conflict resolution and development, this report focuses on the measures that eu member states should take to ensure the reception of migrants on their territory. in addition, mrs vergiat confuses migrant, asylum seeker and refugee, creating all the categories of victims that our countries would have to welcome and integrate for the simple reason that migration has a positive influence on our societies, which are faced with a demographic problem. i also make recommendations on legal immigration, family reunification and integration, with proposals such as the translation of the employment contract into a language the migrant understands, the involvement of migrants in all social and political decision-making processes or the automatic recognition of qualifications...
in writing. ‒ it is my duty to condemn this proposal which undermines the sovereignty of member states and non-member states. they have the right, indeed the duty, to choose and direct their own destiny. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague marie-christine vergiat on human rights and migrants. the text submitted to us was laden with too much demagogic language and lacked concrete and realistic proposals to enable the union to reconcile the protection of human rights in third countries with the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ immigration is increasingly a south-south phenomenon and the number of refugees is rising sharply. refugees were the focus of the report on migration outside europe. rather than outsourcing the management of migration flows to our neighbours and turning a blind eye to human rights, the report calls for an open-eyed approach and an example. we propose that all member states sign the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families, that forced readmissions be rejected, that collective expulsions be rejected, that the right to family reunification and the right to leave and return be respected, and that the right to freedom of movement be guaranteed. we are working with our partners to implement legislation that respects the rights of migrants. this last point is crucial in the eu-turkey agreement and the subsequent ones that follow it. that is why we are asking for parliament to monitor and evaluate these agreements to ensure that fundamental rights are respected, whereas these agreements are often written in such a way as to avoid any parliamentary scrutiny. so i naturally supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled human rights and migration in third countries . the european union is forcing non-eu countries that are forced to suffer the effects of germany's immigration policy to adopt european standards in terms of illegal immigrants' rights. this is of course a major infringement of the sovereignty of third countries as well as of the member states. this is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to bring european standards on the rights of illegal immigrants to non-eu countries. in addition to being an immigration report, it clearly infringes the sovereignty of non-member states. i voted against it, and i voted against it firmly and logically.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text provides proof that the european union no longer wants to control member states and interfere in their internal affairs, but also to decide on the affairs of third countries, and above all to impose its vision of migration policy. the text mentions in particular the 'norms in terms of the rights of illegal migrants'. this is the same vision that the commission has been trying to impose on us for years, and to which we are opposed.
in writing. ‒ this report on the rights of migrants in third countries takes note of the european union's responsibility, in particular through its trade policy, for the aggravation of conflicts and inequalities in the world that generate current migration flows. the more so with global warming, the more these flows require a global and sustained response. the report also stresses the need for eu member states to honour their international commitments and responsibilities and to ensure a dignified and humane reception, far from the 'jungle' conditions of calais. it emphasises policies of inclusion and integration through the learning of the language of the host country and respect for labour law. the right has nevertheless succeeded in introducing a demand for a stronger frontex and the return of migrants by draining development aid funds. in these circumstances, despite the work done by the rapporteur, i cannot vote for it. i'll hold off.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to bring european standards on the rights of illegal immigrants to non-eu countries. in addition to being an immigration report, it clearly infringes the sovereignty of non-member states. i therefore voted against this one.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to force non-eu countries to adopt the european standards on the rights of illegal immigrants in a lax manner. this is of course a major infringement of the sovereignty of third states in matters which are primarily their responsibility. the vote is, of course, against.
in writing. ‒ the eu is forcing non-member states to suffer the harmful effects of german immigration policy and to adopt the lax european immigration standards. moreover, it is obviously a major infringement of the sovereignty of third states as well as of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is confusing, all-encompassing and completely disconnected from the realities of human rights and migration in third countries. the text argued in particular that changes in migration flows have important economic, social and political consequences, that irregular migrants are those most in need of protection and that migrants contribute to increasing the diversity and cultural richness of the host countries.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to enable the eu to force non-member countries which are forced to suffer the effects of german immigration policy to adopt european standards in terms of illegal immigrants' rights. this is obviously a major infringement of the sovereignty of third countries as well as of the member states and i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ protecting the rights of migrant individuals is important. but it is the member states, and especially third countries, which must respect the fundamental principles to which they subscribe in the framework of international law. this report, the vote on which has been postponed several times, is not really complete in the sense that major inaccuracies are the reason for its drafting. migrant, asylum seeker, refugee, are confused. for reasons of consistency, and as the epp group as a whole did, i voted against this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report by marie-christine vergiat on human rights and migration in third countries. the report proposes a humanistic approach by the european union, respectful of those who flee their countries because of war or poverty. the report reaffirms the need to protect the rights of migrants and their families, including by ensuring their dignified reception, and calls on the european union and its member states to protect them by welcoming them in a dignified manner. it emphasises the protection of the most vulnerable (women, minorities) and also offers employment support to ensure full integration of migrants in the host countries. as human tragedies are increasing, particularly in the mediterranean, i hope that this report will be a first step towards a new european strategy on migration, which will eventually lead to the revision of the dublin ii rules.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to require member states to put pressure on non-member states to adopt european standards on the rights of illegal immigrants. i am firmly opposed to this major infringement of the sovereignty of these third states as well as to the infringement of the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which we remind companies of their responsibilities to respect human rights in all their activities worldwide, regardless of where their users are located. the protection of human rights must continue to be a priority for the member states and the european union itself.
in writing. ‒ this report tackles the issue of corporate responsibility to extend the power of the european union over the policy of our firms. the free trade imposed by the eu on member states and third countries alike has had more negative consequences in terms of human rights (re-emergence of a certain form of slavery) and social rights than the policy of our states' firms. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains will increase the importance of the role of business in ensuring respect for human rights and create a situation in which international standards, rules and cooperation are crucial to prevent any violation of these rights by businesses in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the free trade that europe imposes on member states and third countries alike has had far more negative consequences in terms of human and social rights than any of our companies.
in writing. ‒ this report by efdd member corrao deals with the responsibility of companies for serious human rights violations in third countries. in reality, the eu is using the powerful theme of corporate responsibility to extend its power over the policy of our firms. although the subject is sensitive, the free trade imposed by the eu on states has had more negative consequences in terms of human and social rights than the policy of our states' firms. i voted against this report, however.
‒ i am very concerned about living conditions in the third world. however, i denounce the hypocrisy of the european institutions, which pretend to discover the problem of human rights violations while concealing the fact that the free trade they have helped to generalise is the main cause. our companies are not responsible for this. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report commits the companies of the member states of the european union to responsibility in cases of human rights violations in third countries. it is certainly scandalous that large groups, established in the member states, should have recourse to subcontractors who are unscrupulous in respecting human rights. they have a duty to ensure that all stakeholders, in particular their suppliers, respect at least the labour legislation in force in the country of production. while we have been denouncing modern slavery for many years, we do not absolve the european union of any responsibility in these cases of human rights violations in third countries. by increasing free trade agreements and tariff concessions with countries which practice social and environmental dumping, the european union is encouraging our companies, which are subject to unfair international competition, to relocate their activities to these states. this has resulted in a downward harmonisation of social protection systems and of the working conditions of employees. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. the promotion and enforcement of human rights are not duties which fall solely on public institutions. the private sector is also the ambassador of the european union's values abroad. it is therefore important for us europeans to ensure that our businesses respect the universal values of human rights, regardless of where they operate. i believe that the principle of corporate social responsibility, which requires companies to take voluntary action to ensure respect for human rights abroad, provides a solid foundation for ethical business practices and encourages its development.
in writing. respect for human rights is a moral and legal obligation for european companies and their managers, regardless of where they operate, the size of the company or its sector of activity. in the event of non-compliance, victims from third countries must be guaranteed judicial, administrative or legislative remedies. future trade agreements with third countries should also include a reminder of their social obligations to enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the eu is seeking to use the issue of corporate responsibility to expand its power. although the subject is sensitive, it must be borne in mind that the free trade which europe imposes on member states and third countries alike has had more negative consequences in terms of human and social rights than the policy of our states' firms. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the free trade that europe imposes on member states and third countries alike has had more negative consequences in terms of human rights (re-emergence of slavery) and social rights than the policy of our states' firms.
in writing. ‒ everyone remembers the shock of the rana plaza collapse in bangladesh in 2013, which killed more than a thousand textile factory workers working for european brands. companies that are not concerned about the working conditions and wages of their subcontractors, such as the bangladeshi authorities, who use weak regulations to attract foreign investment, are certainly responsible. then there are the mining and deforestation that destroy ecosystems and destroys lives. but the root cause of these situations is unbridled globalisation, the unbridled pursuit of profitability and lower costs. companies play, sometimes cynically, by the rules of a system which you support and which you wish to develop by multiplying trade agreements. rural exodus fueling modern slavery of underpaid small hands there, mass unemployment and impoverishment here. the economic and social violence imposed on the people by your forced free trade is terrifying. it is true that the call for corporate responsibility is out of date. but if we don't change the rules of the game, all this will be dust in the eyes.
in writing. ensuring that whoever sells us a product has no blood on their hands, that is why i voted for this resolution. i supported this text so that parliament could make its voice heard on the creation of a voluntary identification label at union level, attesting to the respect of human rights for products manufactured in third countries. this label will have to be accompanied by an independent monitoring body governed by strict rules and with inspection powers. products which have been awarded this label should benefit from special advantages. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. more generally, the european union and the member states must define precise rules that clearly state that companies established in their territory and/or under their jurisdiction are required to respect human rights in their activities. we need policy coherence on business and human rights, particularly as regards eu trade policy.
in writing. ‒ it seems to me that the free trade policy imposed by the european union on its member states is far more damaging to human rights than the policy pursued by our companies. the eu must not use this pretext to increase its grip on these same companies. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ignazio corrao on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. i wanted to support this initiative, which highlights the voluntary commitment of companies to the implementation of social responsibility in line with the guiding principles of the united nations. the report also addresses the important issue of the introduction of a duty of care for companies using raw materials from conflict zones. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries'. the european union is using the theme of corporate responsibility to extend its power over the policies of french and european firms. the free trade which the european union imposes on member states and third countries alike has had more negative consequences in terms of human and social rights than the policy of european firms.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to use the theme of corporate responsibility to extend its power over the policy of our companies. the free trade imposed by the eu on member states and non-members has a very negative impact on our businesses and jobs, and i opposed this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text has several positive aspects, including the fight against modern slavery in developing countries. it is, however, aimed at extending the eu's power over european companies. to achieve this objective, the european parliament uses the pretext of the need to increase the level of corporate responsibility in respect of human rights in third countries, which we oppose. finally, we should not forget that the free trade imposed by the eu on member states and third countries, by not allowing any form of protectionism, has more negative consequences in terms of human and social rights than the policy of our states' firms.
in writing. ‒ in a globalised economic environment, where the international division of labour has become established, goods pass through several stages of manufacture in what are known as 'global value chains'. this complexity is reflected in a looser public control, which can only be resolved by greater accountability of the actors involved. in this context, the corrao report, which i supported, rightly emphasises the responsibility of certain companies for human rights violations in third countries. the text again contrasts this with the concept of the 'duty of vigilance'. if corporate social responsibility is to become legally binding (for example, by being systematically included in the text of trade agreements), at the other end of the chain, the information of final consumers is just as crucial. i am therefore, as the report proposes, a strong supporter of more accurate labelling of consumer products, through 'no abuse' labels or, conversely, labels indicating the origin of products from 'conflict zones'. in the age of the information society, it is perfectly legitimate to advocate better traceability.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which calls on states to actively participate in the work of the un towards an international treaty obliging multinational companies to respect human rights. i have just returned from geneva, where the second meeting of the working group on this treaty is currently taking place. i regret the vote of the european union when it decided to form this working party. i denounce the subtle obstruction by the european union, with a laughable demand to include 'all companies' coming from an entity that forbids itself social harmonization. the report stresses the responsibility of states to ensure that european companies comply with international standards, including when they operate in third countries. finally, it emphasises the legal remedies available to victims of such violations or to the associations defending them, also considering the 'personal criminal liability' of a ceo. i regret, however, that the report does not call for the establishment of an international tribunal under un jurisdiction to try these human rights violations and environmental crimes, as i myself have argued before the un. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to use the theme of corporate responsibility to extend its power over the policy of our companies. the free trade imposed by the eu on member states and non-members has a very negative impact on our businesses and jobs, and i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the free trade that europe imposes on member states and third countries alike has very negative consequences for human rights (re-emergence of slavery in a modern form) and social rights. these issues of intolerable violation of human rights must, however, be resolved by the states, the only legitimate actors; and so this report is an attack on their sovereignty. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. the resolution reminds multinational companies of their moral and legal duty to ensure respect for human rights in their activities in countries outside the european union, but also of the duty of member states to enforce this obligation.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of better monitoring of the respect of human rights by companies in third countries, this is again a text that seriously undermines the sovereignty of states. if the eu really wanted to fight against the abuse of power by multinationals, it would have done better to reject private arbitration tribunals in ceta and tafta... but that is not its objective because it is only interested in the weakening of states. this hypocritical exploitation of human rights for unacceptable purposes is unacceptable. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the important role that business can play in ensuring respect for human rights in third countries. as such, international trade and trade agreements can help to strengthen basic human rights rules. for some, the trade would be a permanent danger. in my view, it is an effective foreign policy tool for combining european interests and values. the problem of companies using raw materials from war or conflict zones (e.g. gold, tin, tantalum, tungsten) is also addressed in this report. in this context, controls on imports of minerals and metals should be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european union is using the key theme of corporate responsibility to extend its power over the trade policies of our firms. the european union simply wants to hide the fact that its excessive free trade policy causes far more damage in terms of human and social rights than the actions of our state firms. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ multinational companies have had a major influence on developments in international law. respect for human rights was far from their concern. i am therefore pleased to see a report from the european parliament stressing that voluntary private sector initiatives in this area are not sufficient and calling without reservation for work on a binding un treaty. i also welcome the text's emphasis on the supply chain due diligence (which needs to be implemented urgently, particularly in relation to 'blood minerals') and the need to ensure effective access to justice for victims. i regret, however, that the text does not call for the procedures to be free of charge for the victims, when we know that it is primarily financial questions that are hindering them. i also regret that there is no mention of a mechanism for forcing arbitration tribunals to submit to the supremacy of human rights. i therefore vote in favour of this report, hoping for a positive role for the eu in the un, which has long refused to participate in the work in this area.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. i welcome the commission communication entitled 'a union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage'. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. i regret, however, that the report refers to the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) on energy and raw materials for the union's energy security. i was against it.
in writing. ‒ this text is very clearly in favour of the gas sector the only acceptable fossil energy in the long term whose development should allow a smooth ecological transition, with good economic prospects at the core, especially in terms of jobs that cannot be relocated with biomethane. the text rightly emphasizes the opportunities of lng as an alternative fuel in road and sea transport. however, apart from the interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, apart from the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of 'eu energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of geopolitical orientations in opposition to those advocated by the national front. the 'solidarity' invoked on several occasions seems to have to be done at all costs with states that are doing everything to cut us off from this natural and strategic partner such as russia. or how to shift from a relative dependence on russian gas to an allegiance to the us (and qatar) by specifically using us shale gas via the explicitly mentioned tafta. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which i believe is part of the process of rapid transition to a sustainable energy system in the union and of ending dependence on external gas suppliers.
in writing. ‒ apart from the interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, and the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of eu 'energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of geopolitical orientations that are not ours and that take precedence over any other considerations. hence the constant call for diversification of supply sources. if this text is not as caricaturedly anti-russian as could be that of algirdas saudargas on "energy security" (surprisingly rejected in june 2015 thanks to the adoption in extremis of an amendment in favor of a moratorium on shale gas), the "solidarity" also invoked on several occasions seems to have to do at all costs with states that do everything to cut us off from this natural as well as strategic partner as russia. or how to move from (relative) dependence on russian gas based on long-term contracts where suppliers and customers are mutually captive and therefore interdependent to allegiance to the us (and qatar) by specifically using us shale gas via the explicitly mentioned ptci/ttip/tafta.
in writing. ‒ this report on an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is strongly pro-gas. it is the only acceptable fossil energy in the long term, the development of which should allow a smooth ecological transition, with good economic prospects at the heart, especially for jobs that cannot be offshored with biomethane. the text deals mainly with lng, including interconnections and storage, but it also emphasises lng as an alternative fuel, such as lpg and cng. it is also about increasing the diversification of sources of supply. however, this text marks an interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, in addition to the systematic desire to liberalize the energy market. the text also calls for less dependence on russian gas and more on the united states and qatar, including shale gas (see tafta). i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ some of the ideas developed in this report are interesting, notably the value of converting electricity to gas during periods of overproduction, but its geopolitical orientations are very partisan and very favourable to rapprochement with the united states rather than with 'bad' russia. the report also calls for the liberalisation of the energy market and the strengthening of the commission's power over the member states in this area, which i oppose. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses the need to seize the opportunities offered by liquefied natural gas, liquefied biogas and compressed natural gas. the development of these alternative fuels, which can be used in road and maritime transport, could make it possible to complete the ecological transition smoothly, with good economic prospects, particularly in terms of job creation. we certainly share most of the views expressed in this text and we are also in favour of an intelligent diversification of our sources of gas supply. we have nevertheless opposed this report, which is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states in the field of energy policy. the european union's interference, coupled with geopolitical orientations clearly aimed at marginalizing russia from our trade relations in order to increase our energy dependence on us shale gas. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage. the european union must promote credible solutions to meet its international commitments to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. lng is one of these viable alternatives. the low greenhouse gas emissions of lng make it a good transition fuel for transport as well as for heat and electricity production. in line with this report, i believe that the citizens of the union will benefit all the more from the benefits of lng if the member states cooperate and put their thoughts on the taming, transit and storage of lng into a european framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to set up an internal energy market incorporating liquefied natural gas (lng). it is a gas cooled to -161°c, condensed to liquid state and therefore has advantages in terms of storage, transport and respect for the environment. the report advocates an energy policy in favour of the use of natural gas, through the exploitation of the eu's internal resources. it proposes concrete measures such as the development of lng refuelling infrastructure, both for ships and vehicles.
in writing. according to the international energy agency, global natural gas consumption is expected to increase by 50% by 2035. europeans must therefore step up their efforts to move towards a more sustainable, secure and competitive energy system. this will reduce our dependence on third countries for natural gas and will make it possible to develop the use of renewable energy, a sector of the future. the union must, however, ensure that such a transition does not entail increased costs for consumers.
in writing. ‒ this text is favourable to the gas sector, which is an acceptable fossil energy source and offers good prospects, particularly in terms of jobs that cannot be relocated with biomethane. in particular, it encourages the conversion of electricity to gas to avoid losing excess electricity production and rightly emphasises the opportunities of lng as an alternative fuel in road and maritime transport. however, this text seems to prefer to move us from a relative dependence on russian gas to an allegiance to the united states (and qatar) by specifically using us shale gas via the ptci/ttip/tafta, explicitly mentioned several times. although he was a member of fidesz, gyürk and his staff were clearly hostile to the enl. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: solidarity also repeatedly invoked seems to be at all costs with states that are doing everything to cut us off from this natural as well as strategic partner as russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. our internal energy market must fully integrate lng and gas storage will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of an energy union resilient to geopolitical contingencies. priority should be given to market-based solutions and the use of existing lng infrastructures at regional level. finally, it is important to respect the objective of diversifying sources of supply to enable the eu to be more independent.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the use of the gas sector is an appropriate way of promoting a less tumultuous ecological transition and of creating real economic potential, particularly through biomethane. encouraging diversification of supply sources is a priority. despite its good intentions, particularly on liquefied natural gas (lng), this report is not satisfactory. there is no question of increasing the commission's power of intervention, of liberalizing the energy market more than is necessary, or of giving rise to a so-called energy diplomacy whose geopolitical character would be the only, if not the main driver. everything is being done to distance us from russia, a strategic and natural partner, and to replace our so-called dependence on russian gas with a real submission to the united states, via the future transatlantic treaty, which is the carrier of shale gas. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. in addition to interference in the energy policy of the member states, with the strengthening of the power of the european commission and its agencies, and the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of 'eu energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of questionable geopolitical orientations. the text advocates an allegiance to the united states (and qatar) by specifically using american shale gas via tafta, which is explicitly cited several times.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is rather favourable to the gas sector, deals more particularly with the liquefied natural gas sector and in particular with interconnections and storage capacities. it promotes the conversion of electricity to gas and the use of lng as a fuel for road and sea transport. in addition to the eu's interference in energy policy and its desire to liberalise the energy market, this report deals with the eu's 'energy diplomacy' and seems to be the result of geopolitical strategies that are not necessarily those of the states, and which therefore benefit other powers such as the united states with shale gas. for these reasons i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the security of the eu's energy supply is a matter of paramount importance. to help achieve this, this report reviews the main pillars of the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage, recently presented by the commission. the answer to these problems given in this report is only partially satisfactory. the content is certainly positive when, recalling the commitments made under the paris climate agreement, it refers to the binding targets for 2030 repeated by the european parliament in terms of renewable energy, energy efficiency and emission reductions. however, i cannot agree with some of the passages, in particular the one concerning the opening of a chapter on energy and raw materials in the eu-us free trade agreement currently under negotiation. concerned about the negative impact on the environment of oil and gas from shale oil developed over the atlantic, i abstain on this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this motion for a resolution raises several problems. first, it wants to impose geopolitical guidelines on the member states in terms of energy security. the european union is trying to interfere in our politics by imposing systematic liberalisation of the energy market and deciding which sources we can use. it's not our choice. they are also not aligned with france's vital interests. secondly, the text seeks to strengthen the power of the commission and its agencies. it even talks about the eu's 'energy diplomacy'! finally, the text is very clearly anti-russian in that it proposes a shift from dependence on russian gas to allegiance to the united states (and qatar), with particular reference to american shale gas through free trade agreements, notably ttip (or tafta), which we strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ natural gas currently accounts for about a quarter of the eu's gross domestic energy consumption. the report promotes liquefied natural gas (lng) and the liberalisation of the energy market. the commission also found that the russian gas market is not sufficiently diversified to meet the needs of the union industry. the council welcomed the commission's work to lift restrictions on us gas exports to the eu, which is mainly shale gas and has many environmental problems. finally, it welcomes the future conclusion of ttip and its chapter on energy and raw materials, which i oppose. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is rather favourable to the gas sector, deals more particularly with the liquefied natural gas sector and in particular with interconnections and storage capacities. it promotes the conversion of electricity to gas and the use of lng as a fuel for road and sea transport. in addition to the eu's interference in energy policy and its desire to liberalise the energy market, this report deals with the eu's 'energy diplomacy' and seems to be the result of geopolitical strategies that are not necessarily those of the states and that therefore benefit other powers such as the united states with shale gas. i therefore opposed this report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ apart from the interference in our energy policy with the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies, and the systematic desire to liberalise the energy market, this report, which speaks four times of the union's 'energy diplomacy', seems above all to be the result of geopolitical orientations which are not ours and which take precedence over any other considerations. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this is a very clear text in favour of the gas sector, whose development should allow a smooth ecological transition, with good economic prospects at the heart, particularly in terms of jobs that cannot be relocated thanks to biomethane. in this case, the report deals more specifically with the lng sector, in particular interconnections and storage capacities. it also involves increasing the diversification of sources and supply routes; the lng offers even more flexibility. nevertheless, the strengthening of the power of the commission and its agencies in the field of energy policy seems to me to be contrary to the interests of france, as does the systematic desire to liberalize the energy market. the report also mentions the eu's 'energy diplomacy' four times, and geopolitical orientations, which i dispute, therefore take precedence over all other considerations. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ liquefied natural gas (lng) is a cooled natural gas, which facilitates its storage and transport, with one third of the world's gas passing through in the form of lng. the advantages are many: reduced geopolitical problems because lng does not transit through traditional pipelines, reduced isolation and energy dependence, increased cleanliness when it comes to fuel (less co2, sox and nox). i voted in favour of this text, which shows that an internal energy market fully integrating lng will contribute to the emergence of an efficient energy union.
in writing. ‒ in this text, the rapporteur makes good recommendations, such as the one to promote domestic energy sources or the one to promote liquefied biogas. the rapporteur, however, points out that the european union must decide our energy policy in the name of energy diplomacy. this is unacceptable and highly questionable, especially since this energy diplomacy is aimed at american shale gas and qatari liquefied natural gas against russian sources, historical and reliable sources. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. fishermen often complain that the fishing controls are less strict in neighbouring countries. this sense of injustice raises a vital question. the regulation is european, but how can we accept that its application is not? with the fisheries control regulation due to be revised in a few months, it was useful for the european parliament to take up this subject. the aim is to highlight the shortcomings in the application of the rules which lead to a feeling of inequality and to propose solutions to harmonise the control of the common fisheries policy, which is one of the most integrated policies in europe.
in writing. ‒ some of the proposals in the report are positive: for example, the implementation of economic sanctions, such as a ban on going to sea, rather than criminal sanctions, equivalent controls on imported products and on third-country vessels fishing in european waters, joint training of fisheries inspectors, improvement of information for fishermen, exchange of data in all member states, or the integration of a representative of the european parliament in the aecp. other proposals are unacceptable, such as the generalization of a points-based licence, even if harmonised, and the increase in the budget of the aecp, mainly to recruit new staff. it is feared that many valid proposals will never be implemented (e.g. equivalent controls on imported products), while the most stringent proposals will be. in general, this report is part of a policy of increasingly close monitoring of fishermen: between the multiple declarations, electronic and satellite instruments, checks on board or at landing, they are closely monitored. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the common fisheries policy is one of the most integrated policies in europe. i voted in favour of this text because the control of fishermen in europe must be carried out in a uniform way in order to be effective.
in writing. ‒ in general, this report is part of a logic of ever closer monitoring of fishermen: between the multiple declarations, the electronic and satellite instruments, the controls on board or at landing, they are very closely monitored and supervised to the detriment of their activity, which i cannot support.
in writing. ‒ this report by the socialist mep isabelle thomas aims to make fisheries controls in europe more uniform. at present, fisheries control is not harmonised at european level, so member states are free to organise controls themselves. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain foodstuffs. it does not apply equally across europe, which creates a feeling of injustice among fishermen. the commission is also proposing to extend the scoring system and to increase the budget of the european fisheries control agency to recruit new staff. there are positive points (points 55, 69, etc.) but many are unacceptable: generalized and harmonized points permit (point 15), increased cfpe budget (point 45). the risk is that the binding proposals will be applied, but as usual not the right measures, such as equivalent controls on imported products. as it stands, i have therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report makes some interesting points, for example the introduction of a 'no-go' ban as a sanction instead of a criminal sanction, but it highlights unacceptable elements such as the generalised points permit. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. all this is part of a strategy to strengthen controls on european fishermen, who are already very uncomfortable with the current controls. the report's intention to apply equivalent sanctions to imported products or to third country vessels operating in european waters sounds more like wishful thinking than effective proposals. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to harmonise fisheries controls at european level. until now, the complexity of the old regulation has allowed member states to interpret and adapt the rules governing fisheries controls. to remedy this problem, the report recommends that the points permit be extended and that the budget of the european fisheries control agency (efca) be increased, in particular with a view to recruiting new staff. this report is part of a policy of increasingly close monitoring of fishermen. although we are in favour of the creation of joint training courses for fisheries inspectors and the exchange of data between member states, we are very concerned that this report will increase the pressure on our fishermen. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the thomas report which gives an overview of the state of play in the control of fishing activities. it stresses the important progress made in harmonising controls but points out some limitations. the report calls for greater cooperation between member states to enhance harmonisation in the area of controls and sanctions. i believe that the diversity of sanctions between countries is a source of injustice for fishermen. the report also identifies some ways in which controls can be improved to make them more uniform, particularly in the areas of control technologies, training of controllers and data collection. the report also states that a thorough reform of the control regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 is not desirable as this regulation is a solid basis. the improvements, although necessary, can only come from better cooperation between member states. moreover, a substantial revision would open the door to a weakening or even renationalisation of existing rules, which is undesirable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the harmonisation of fisheries controls in europe. we must respond to the cry of alarm from fishermen who see european regulation as a source of injustice. more than the european regulation, it is the lack of homogeneity in its application that is the cause of this dysfunction. it is up to the european parliament to remedy this situation by harmonising sanctions, ensuring that they are applied and simplifying european regulation.
in writing. the european fisheries sector is the fourth largest producer in the world with 6.4 million tonnes of fish per year and employs 350 000 people. the common fisheries policy is one of the most integrated policies in europe, but fisheries controls are not sufficiently harmonised. the scope, training of fishermen, procedures and penalties differ from one member state to another. the existing framework should therefore be simplified and standardised procedures developed. the union must work to make fishing sustainable.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to harmonise fisheries controls, which are currently organised by the member states themselves. some of the proposals are positive, such as the idea of economic sanctions, such as a ban on sailing, rather than penal ones. equivalent controls on imported products and on third country vessels fishing in european waters, joint training of fisheries inspectors, improvement of information for fishermen, exchange of data between member countries and the integration of a european parliament representative in the aecp are also positive. other proposals are unacceptable, such as the generalization of a points-based licence, even if harmonised, and the increase in the budget of the aecp, mainly to recruit new staff. it is feared that many valid proposals will never be implemented, while the most restrictive proposals will be. this report is part of a policy of increasingly close monitoring of fishermen, whether it be multiple declarations, the use of electronic and satellite instruments, checks on board or at landing. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: in general, this report is part of a policy of increasingly close monitoring of fishermen: they are closely monitored, in the form of multiple declarations, electronic and satellite instruments, checks on board or at landing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to safeguard equal treatment of european fleets. to this end, it is important to better apply existing legislation. the text provides for increased controls to prevent the import of fish of illegal, unreported and unregulated origin, improved training and information for fishermen and the establishment of financing mechanisms to increase the use of new low-cost technologies.
in writing. - as usual, good is the neighbor of evil. while i support the preference for economic sanctions rather than criminal ones, or for control of non-community fishing vessels operating in our waters, i consider the proposals to increase the budget of the european fisheries control agency and the generalization of a point licence to be inadmissible. the implementation of even the most beneficial ideas, such as equivalent controls on imported products, is being called into question, a fate which the most restrictive proposals will not share. all this logic is geared towards increased surveillance of fishermen, without any real satisfactory counterpart. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague isabelle thomas on the harmonisation of fisheries controls in europe. the current system is based on the monitoring and analysis of information on fisheries management. however, the lack of coordination between data collected at national level is a major obstacle. i support this text which aims to harmonise this data with real-time sharing for operations carried out by the competent authority (the european fisheries control agency) in collaboration with the member states. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'how to make fisheries controls in europe more uniform?' the text contains unacceptable proposals, such as the points-based permit, even if it is harmonised, and the increase in the aecp budget to recruit new staff. there are some good proposals, but they will never be implemented, such as equivalent controls on imported products. more generally, this report is part of a logic of ever closer monitoring of fishermen: declarations, electronic and satellite instruments, controls on board or at landing, etc.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes ways of thinking about the homogenisation of fisheries at european level. it is found that the 'control' regulation is too complex and offers too many possibilities for adaptation by the member states. to remedy this, the rapporteur proposes a series of even more stringent measures which are part of a logic of increased surveillance of fishermen, which we believe is already sufficiently strong. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ with the revision of the fisheries control regulation only a few months away, it was essential that the european parliament take up the question of harmonising the procedures for such controls within the union. the aim of this report is to highlight the shortcomings in the application of the rules which lead to a feeling of inequality among fishermen from different eu countries and to propose solutions to harmonise the control of the common fisheries policy, which is one of the most integrated policies in europe. the report calls for the creation of a european training centre for fisheries controllers, while stressing that the fisheries control agency should be strengthened and its scope of action extended. finally, the report highlights the urgency, in the context of judicial procedures, of harmonising penalties according to the infringement and of introducing incentive measures. i am convinced that the implementation of the simple and homogeneous proposals contained in this report will make checks more effective and acceptable to all. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the member states themselves organise fisheries controls as they are not harmonised at european level. there is a regulation, called 'control', but it is too complex and suffers from many interpretations, thus creating many injustices. some aspects of the text are positive (economic sanctions, more controls, training, etc.), but it generalizes the point licence and strengthens the budget of the european fisheries control agency (efca), which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the shortcomings of the common fisheries policy. although the rules are the same for all, each member state applies different control procedures. and in the same way, judicial procedures and sanctions are different across the european union: thus, for the same offence, the sanction may be administrative or criminal in nature. the report therefore aims to harmonise these control and sanction procedures. it recommended making the exchange of data on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing compulsory. it also called for the use of new technologies to increase the efficiency of controls and said it was opposed to compulsory video surveillance on ships. some points are still under debate, such as the introduction of a system of financial penalties (through a temporary ban on fishing) in points, the terms of which do not allow equal treatment between operators. nevertheless, i am voting for this text, which is in favour of the fight against illegal and unreported fishing.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes ways of thinking about the homogenisation of fisheries at european level. it is found that the 'control' regulation is too complex and offers too many possibilities for adaptation by the member states. to remedy this, the rapporteur proposes a series of even more stringent measures which are part of a logic of increased surveillance of fishermen, which we believe is already sufficiently strong. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ since fisheries control is not harmonised at european level, member states are free to organise controls themselves. the thomas report proposes ways of thinking about harmonising controls. some of the proposals in the report are positive: for example, the implementation of economic and non-criminal sanctions, such as a ban on going to sea, equivalent controls on imported products and on third-country vessels fishing in european waters, joint training of fisheries inspectors, improvement of information for fishermen, exchange of data in all member states and the integration of a representative of the european parliament in the aecp. other proposals are unacceptable, such as the generalization of a points-based licence, even if harmonised, and the increase in the budget of the aecp, mainly to recruit new staff. it is feared that many valid proposals will never be implemented (e.g. equivalent controls on imported products), while the most stringent proposals will be. in general, this report is part of a policy of increasingly close monitoring of fishermen. my vote is against it.
in writing. ‒ despite some good proposals such as equivalent controls on imported products (which will never be applied), this report is part of a logic of ever closer surveillance of fishermen and harmful to their activity: declarations, electronic and satellite instruments and multiple controls. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the means of making fisheries controls in europe more uniform. the report stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to preserve the equal treatment of european fleets. the text also stresses the importance of strengthening the mandate of the european fisheries control agency (efca) in order to set up joint operational fisheries control measures to effectively coordinate the activities of the many local, regional, national authorities and european agencies exercising coast guard functions at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the recommendations contained in it will help to facilitate the work of european fishermen, in particular by enabling them to become better acquainted with the european legislation in force. the main recommendations of the report are: the role of the european fisheries control agency should be extended, procedures and penalties should be harmonised, control bodies should be better coordinated and data should be shared more widely, a european training course for controllers should be established and training for fishermen strengthened, community legislation should be simplified to make it more accessible to professionals and to avoid differences in interpretation between member states, and controls on recreational fishing should be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ according to isabelle thomas, the control regulation is too complex and offers too many possibilities for member states to adapt it. it doesn't apply everywhere in the same way, which creates a sense of injustice. some of the proposals in the report are positive: the implementation of economic sanctions (ban on going to sea) rather than penal sanctions, equivalent controls on imported products and on vessels from third countries fishing in european waters, joint training of fisheries inspectors, improvement of information for fishermen, etc. other measures are unacceptable: the introduction of a general, even harmonised, points-based licence, and an increase in the budget of the aecp, mainly for the recruitment of new staff. i fear that many valid proposals will never be implemented (e.g. equivalent controls on imported products), while the most stringent proposals will be. in general, this report is part of a policy of increasingly close monitoring of fishermen: between the multiple declarations, electronic and satellite instruments, checks on board or at landing, they are closely monitored. for these reasons, i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which refers to the lack of european harmonisation of criminal and administrative sanctions, which are national competences, when it comes to fisheries control in europe. although progress has been made since 2009 (the date of implementation of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009), there is room for improvement through training of controllers, new control technologies and data collection.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of my report by a very large majority sends a strong signal to the european commission on the european parliament's recommendations on the need for harmonisation of fisheries control in europe. in particular, solutions are being put forward with regard to differences in transposition, benchmarks, sanctions, training, data and funding. the european commission will have to take account of the points raised in its future proposal for revision of the control regulation. the issue of the control of recreational fishing proposed in the report was the subject of a specific vote in plenary. this vote was carried by a large majority and is now in the text. however, i regret that my colleagues in the green group abstained on this proposal because today, for some species, recreational fishing represents more than a third of the volumes caught each year. however, it is not controlled and the resulting mortality is not taken into account in the annual stock assessment. this is therefore a genuine measure to protect the resource.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to harmonise fisheries controls in europe. the commission has proposed that the general introduction of a points system, even if it is harmonised, and the increase in the budget of the aecp, mainly for the recruitment of new staff, should be made unacceptable. the report also reflects the logic of increasingly close monitoring of fishermen: between multiple declarations, electronic and satellite instruments, and checks on board or at landing, fishermen are being over-monitored. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. transport infrastructure in the cee region has improved greatly in recent years, but much remains to be done, in particular with regard to the development of the ten-t core corridors and the comprehensive network. this report covers all modes of transport and focuses on multimodal transport, highlighting not only the need to complete major road infrastructure projects, but also high-speed rail, inland waterway and improved links between regional airports.
in writing. ‒ while this report on transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe does have some positive points, such as the need for better use of european funding, greater transparency, administrative relief, more funds for the maintenance of existing infrastructure, a more logical distribution of regional airports, favouring local businesses when building infrastructure, ensuring that the most isolated populations are not forgotten, etc., it also advocates the expansion of the schengen area, is concerned about cycle paths and urban transport, enhances the macro-regional governance undertaken by the commission, promotes chinese participation and investment in developing transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, remains focused on the eastern balkans and the eu and is associated with more effective transport policy towards the eu and the western balkans. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ high-quality transport links are fundamental to europe's economic activities and to the quality of life of our citizens. this requires that member states pool their resources and cooperate with a view to further developing the trans-european transport network (ten-t). that is why i have decided to approve this text.
‒ despite some positive points, this draft advocates the enlargement of the schengen area, is concerned with cycling routes and urban transport, praises the macro-regional governance promoted by the commission, conceals chinese investments to develop the transport infrastructure of central and eastern europe, remains evasive about the real effectiveness of european funds paid to central and eastern europe, wishes to involve ukraine and the western balkans more in the eu transport policy...
in writing. ‒ this report on strengthening the network and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe takes stock of european funding for transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe and makes a number of recommendations to the commission. many transport infrastructures in eastern europe are old or dangerous. the eu launched a call for projects worth €7.6 billion (including €6.5 million for the countries of central and eastern europe, and also for portugal and greece). several negative points emerge from this report: the eu's increased interest in cycle paths (no more subsidiarity), the desire to save the originally unviable schengen area at all costs, and even to extend it to romania and bulgaria, the desire to extend eu funding to non-eu countries in the balkans and ukraine, and the promotion of macro-regions, seen as new ideal forms of governance. finally, the report also ignores the expansion of chinese influence in central and eastern europe. there are certainly some positive points, but in view of the negative aspects which have been discussed earlier, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ while i am aware that the infrastructure of the central european countries, which is still as old as it is, should be improved despite the considerable sums already swallowed up by european funds, i remain firmly opposed to the enlargement of the schengen area and the eu's macro-regional governance advocated in this report. i am also opposed to the idea of associating the balkan countries and ukraine with the eu transport policy. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report takes stock of european funding for transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe and makes a series of recommendations for developing transport networks in these countries, whether they are eu member states, candidate countries or third countries benefiting from the neighbourhood policy. the succession of wishes expressed in this report, such as improving the use of funding, increasing transparency in the allocation of funds or reducing administrative burdens, does not mask the harmfulness of some proposals. the report praises the commission's policy of macroeconomic governance in the region, but does not mention the scale of chinese investment in the region. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on strengthening the network and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the underdevelopment of transport networks in the central and eastern european member states is a drag on their economic growth and on the growth of the internal market. in order to strengthen the convergence of economies and social cohesion between the member states of the union, it is necessary to promote increased cooperation between the european commission and the member states of central and eastern europe in the creation of an interconnected and accessible transport network throughout the territory. while most of the efforts have so far been on the east-west axis, it seems to me particularly important to focus on the north-south transport networks of central and eastern europe.
in writing. ‒ the text has some positive points, such as the need for better use of eu funding, increased transparency, administrative relief, increased funds for the maintenance of existing infrastructure, a more logical distribution of regional airports or support for local businesses when building infrastructure. nevertheless, he advocates the enlargement of the schengen area and praises the macro-regional governance advocated by the commission. it also ignores the issue of chinese investment in developing the transport infrastructure of central and eastern europe, remains evasive about the real effectiveness of eu funds allocated to central and eastern european countries and wishes to involve ukraine and the western balkans more in eu transport policy. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: advocates the enlargement of the schengen area, praises the macro-regional governance promoted by the commission, conceals chinese investments to develop the transport infrastructure of central and eastern europe, remains evasive about the real effectiveness of european funds paid to central and eastern europe, wishes to involve ukraine and the western balkans more in the eu transport policy...
in writing. - reading the poreba report, i was puzzled. i confess that i do not understand everything. the european union has been funding the transport networks of the countries of central and eastern europe, now members of the eu, for some 30 years. however, these networks are still outdated and incomplete. how much has been invested and how effective? in view of limited resources, should the existing system be modernised or should new routes be developed? the governments of these countries are told what projects they should prioritize, supposedly according to the needs of their economies. but in reality, the projects mentioned are less structural for these territories than for the single market, where it is important to optimise the logistics chain of a dispersed production at the cost of the costs. we claim to favour smes, but we ignore the european regulatory constraints and the attraction of the chinese for these public contracts, even though it is true that the subject is less relevant than four or five years ago. if we add the references to schengen, to cycle paths, to the association of non-eu countries and to the small burden against russia (the nord stream gas pipeline which would block ports such as sardinia to marseille), it will be clear that i did not vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ the report makes some interesting and sensible proposals, such as better use of eu funding, administrative simplification, better maintenance of infrastructure and the integration of local businesses into projects. these positive aspects are cancelled out by other, much more questionable proposals promoting the enlargement of the schengen area, macro-regional governance, the covert solicitation of chinese investments for infrastructure financing or the association of non-european states to the community transport policy, measures to which i am opposed. i chose to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tomasz poreba on transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the trans-european transport network is part of the proper functioning of the internal market and of the strengthening of economic and social cohesion. however, there are still serious shortcomings in accessibility and networking across central and eastern europe, which is why the report recommends, in particular, better connecting cross-border regions. these measures help to boost employment and create new opportunities for businesses in these regions and, more generally, for european businesses. i am glad that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'strengthening the interconnection and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe'. the report does have some positive points, but it advocates the enlargement of the schengen area, is concerned about cycle lanes and urban transport, praises the macro-regional governance promoted by the european commission, conceals chinese investments and participation in developing the transport infrastructure of central and eastern europe, remains evasive about the real effectiveness of european funds paid to central and eastern europe, wishes to involve ukraine and the western balkans more in the eu transport policy...
in writing. ‒ this report is a step-by-step guide to european funding for transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. a series of recommendations to the commission are issued with a view to the development of transport in the countries concerned, whether they are eu members or not. however, this text advocates the extension of the schengen area, promotes macro-regional governance, omits the existence of chinese investments in the regions concerned and does not make a precise point on the efficiency of european funds paid to central and eastern europe. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text takes stock of european financing for transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe and makes a number of recommendations. it has some positive points (better use of european funding, increased transparency, administrative relief, local businesses favoured, etc.), but too many negative points: more funding despite its inefficiency, the will to save the schengen area at all costs (but a total failure). the text even envisages extending it to romania and bulgaria, and stresses the need to extend european funding to the non-eu balkan countries and ukraine, which we oppose. finally, the question of the development of chinese influence in europe is not addressed in this text (except for a reference to point 26). this expansion in central and eastern europe is taking place through investment and cooperation policies in the field of transport infrastructure. the aim is to dump asian products on the member states' markets, which we do not approve of.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to strengthen the networking and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. to this end, it advocated better use of regional cooperation instruments and european funds in the implementation of transport infrastructure projects. but the report remains focused on an objective of competitiveness and growth. it considered that the completion of the italian a27 motorway to austria was a priority for the socioeconomic development of the eastern part of the alpine region. it also encourages member states to use public-private partnerships to reduce the risks for the private sector, although it stresses that the cost-effectiveness of a transport route cannot be the only criterion for assessing its usefulness. finally, while some elements are granted to non-polluting modes of transport, from cyclists to rail transport, the environmental dimension is quite secondary. i am voting against this report, which does not take the issues into account.
in writing. ‒ this report is a step-by-step guide to european funding for transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. a series of recommendations to the commission are issued with a view to the development of transport in the countries concerned, whether they are eu members or not. however, this text advocates the extension of the schengen area, promotes macro-regional governance, omits the existence of chinese investments in the regions concerned and does not make a precise point on the efficiency of european funds paid to central and eastern europe. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe does have some positive points, such as the need for better use of eu funding and greater transparency, administrative relief, more funds for the maintenance of existing infrastructure, a more logical distribution of regional airports, the need to favour local businesses when building infrastructure and to ensure that the most isolated populations are not forgotten, etc. but at the same time, it is advocating the enlargement of the schengen area, is concerned about bike lanes and urban transport, praises the macro-regional governance promoted by the commission, conceals chinese investments to develop the transport infrastructure of central and eastern europe, remains evasive about the real effectiveness of european funds paid to central and eastern europe, or wants to involve ukraine and the western balkans more in eu transport policy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report on transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe highlights positive aspects such as increased transparency, administrative relief, a more logical distribution of regional airports, the value of local businesses in the construction of infrastructure, ensuring that the most isolated populations are not forgotten, etc. however, at the same time, he advocates the enlargement of the schengen area, praises the macro-regional governance promoted by the commission, etc. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on strengthening infrastructure interconnection and accessibility in central and eastern europe. the aim of this text is to continue the process already under way in the area of transport infrastructure and accessibility in the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular in estonia, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia and romania.
in writing. ‒ this report on transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe has some positive points, since it calls for better use of european funding, greater transparency, administrative relief, funds for the maintenance of existing infrastructure, a more logical distribution of regional airports, an advantage for local companies when building infrastructure, attention to the most isolated populations... but at the same time, it advocates the expansion of the schengen area, is concerned about cycling lanes and urban transport (against the principle of subsidiarity), praises the macro-regional governance promoted by the commission, conceals chinese investments to develop transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe, remains jealous of the easiveness of european funds for this area, and is more opposed to the eu's involvement in the western balkans than to the eu's transport policy.
in writing. ‒ transport networks in the central and eastern european member states have been greatly developed with the support of the european union, with the aim of increasingly efficiently connecting all the territories of europe. this infrastructure-building strategy also allows the maintenance and emergence of a zone of stability to the west of the eu's borders. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to strengthen the improvement of crossborder connectivity between central and eastern european member states, particularly in a north-south logic.
in writing. ‒ this report on transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe highlights positive aspects such as better use of eu funds, increased transparency of transport services, administrative relief and a more logical distribution of regional airports. however, he advocates the enlargement of the schengen area and praises the macro-regional governance promoted by the commission. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i share many of the objectives set out in this text. i will mention in particular the need to improve the networking and accessibility of transport infrastructures, the need to link this work to a more extensive ecological transition and the social integration of economically vulnerable populations, and the importance of establishing the missing links. i am therefore surprised that this text does not at any time denounce the logic of liberalising transport at work in the ten-t. wherever it is at work, the search for profitability leads investors to reduce the network of public transport and thus to ignore the imperatives of accessibility for all and even of ecological transition (the preferred modes of transport are often individual and increasingly polluting). there is also an urgent need to put an end to and at least reassess certain major projects whose relevance over time is becoming less and less evident. they may therefore prove to be unnecessary or even dangerous, in addition to exorbitant costs that are incomprehensible in times of budgetary "restrictions". i therefore voted against this text.
mr president, the report in 't veld is intended to put governments under the tutelage of the protection of fundamental rights. in fact, it proceeds from an orwellian logic because it proposes exactly the opposite, in reality, of what it displays in the name of principles. the truth is that freedom-threatening laws have proliferated in europe. there are hundreds of prisoners of conscience in germany today. in my country, france, under the liberticidal laws, for example the pleven law, anyone who speaks of immigration to say anything other than good can be prosecuted for racism or xenophobia; anyone who claims to freely examine contemporary history can be prosecuted for revisionism or negationism; anyone who does not give in to the adulation of lesbianism, homosexuality or transsexualism can be prosecuted for homophobia. the report is therefore a monument to hypocrisy. before looking for the speck in the eye of the hungarians, we had better look for the beam in the eye of most of the members of this parliament.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european union is much more than just a market: it is a community of values, enshrined in the treaties! among them, respect for the rule of law is the cornerstone of democracy and the protection of fundamental rights; it must be reflected in each of the measures taken by the eu and its member states. finally, the union must have a democratic governance as strong as its economic governance. i therefore welcome this resolution which proposes to establish a mechanism for the annual assessment of the respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights by the member states and the three main eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of an eu mechanism for 'democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. it is an eu mechanism to take political control of member states that do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. each member state will be subject to an annual control. a panel of experts (1 judge per member state plus 10 experts appointed by the european parliament) will make a report which will then be adopted by the commission. the report advocates eu accession to the european convention on human rights, which will strengthen the influence of the european court of human rights and the council of europe (of which turkey and albania are members). the text also calls for a revision of the treaty which would allow one third of the members of the european parliament to refer a matter to the court of justice after a text has been finally adopted and before it is implemented. this is a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states. even the french government has declared that the proposal is not in accordance with the treaties! i have, of course, opposed this dangerous text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative initiative report by sophie in t veld calling on the commission to submit a proposal for an objective and non-political mechanism to protect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (def). i believe that europeans were among the first to fight for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this legacy requires us to strengthen their protection throughout the union, which is a community of principles and values.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of an eu mechanism for 'democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. in reality, it is a mechanism by which the eu seizes political control of those member states which do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i am opposed to this report which also advocates the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights, which will strengthen the influence of the european court of human rights but also of the council of europe (which includes turkey, albania, etc.).
in writing. - as in george orwell's 1984 novel, the union will finally have its ministry of truth. what is this about? we are going to create a mechanism for democracy to prosecute sovereign states that have the recklessness to believe that in the royal realms of politics they have the right to defend the interests of their people. this will require, as this report recommends, the abolition of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights on subsidiarity and national sovereignty. the report wants the eu to apply to join the european court of human rights (echr) when this court is an institution of the council of europe (47 countries and not all 27 eu states). the echr would thus become the supreme judicial body of the union, with jurisdiction over the court of justice of the european union. moreover, this mechanism for democracy will include so-called experts, some of whom are non-european judges (from turkey? russia? morocco?) who, on the basis of anonymity, will be able to evaluate and condemn democratic and sovereign states. with the single mind as supreme judge.
in writing. ‒ i have strongly opposed this report, which, contrary to what its name suggests, represents a real danger to democracy in the member states. the european union, which cannot tolerate contradiction, is trying to muzzle any dissenting voice with the sacrosanct words of so-called 'experts' who will be able to 'judge' or even sanction any european nation that has the misfortune of not going in the direction of the brussels institutions, as they are already trying to 'impose' with the 'sanctions' against hungary and poland. worse, non-eu member states but part of other institutions such as the council of europe will be able to play the role of grand magistrate vis-à-vis the member states: we will be delighted to receive the 'good advice' on democracy and respect for human rights from albania or turkey... (sic!) when we consider that even the french government, although it is the leader of this super federal state which is not a federal state, considers the proposal to be contrary to the european treaties, we can understand that the time is serious.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in reality, it is a mechanism by which the union seizes political control of member states that do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. each member state will be subject to an annual control. a panel of experts (one judge per member state and ten experts appointed by the european parliament) will draw up a report which will then be adopted by the commission. this is a regular attack on the sovereignty of the member states and democracy in general. the text is also contrary to the european treaties, as the french government has also pointed out. i have, of course, opposed this unjust text.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. this mechanism would in fact allow the european union to sanction or take political control of member states whose governments do not respect its interpretation of democracy. each member state will be subject to an annual review by experts appointed arbitrarily by the european parliament. the report also advocates the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights, thus strengthening the influence and weight of the european court of human rights and the council of europe. this is once again a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states, which will now be forced to respect the sacrosanct european vision of democracy. finally, we would point out that this proposal is not in full conformity with the european treaties. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this report. his intentions are admirable, but his proposals are neither realistic nor reasonable. i am of course in favour of a comprehensive union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, but it must be pragmatic and respect the principle of subsidiarity. this report opens a dangerous door by giving too much weight to civil society organisations at the expense of representative democracy. the report also proposes to delete article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights, which would give the union a large part of the competence in the field of fundamental rights and would negate the principle of subsidiarity. i consider that the mechanism provided for in article 7 teu is a sufficient instrument to establish that there is a clear risk of a serious breach by a member state of the values of democracy and the rule of law, and to put in place a wide range of sanctions if necessary. i would remind you that parliament has the power to trigger this article by proposing to the council that there is a clear risk of a serious breach by a member state of the values of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. i voted against this text, which has no binding legislative value, on the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. while recent events have shown us that it is essential for the european union to strengthen its existing instruments to protect the rule of law in europe, i could not support the provisions of this text which run counter to the principle of the sovereignty of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity in europe. the proposals for a possible amendment of the treaties to change the procedures for referral to the court of justice of the eu are therefore particularly worrying. i regret that the negotiations between the political groups have not led to a realistic and balanced text to genuinely protect the rule of law and fundamental rights in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to strengthen existing mechanisms to avoid any lapses in fundamental rights. to this end, it wants to set up tools to assess each year the respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the member states and the european institutions. this project is important to me, because it is about defending respect for the fundamental values of the union, but i voted against this report because the methods it proposes are not suitable for the project. in the proposal that is being made, there is no separation of powers, since the european parliament is both the legislator and at the same time responsible for monitoring and controlling the states. moreover, the national institutions are the main absentees from this process, which is unacceptable. i believe that the latter have more powers to exercise this control and enjoy greater legitimacy in the eyes of the citizens. the developments proposed in this report are therefore relevant, but they lack realism.
in writing. ‒ while the commission is furiously attacking those within the union who do not respect the dogma of free and undistorted competition and the convergence criteria, it remains singularly silent or disarmed in the face of violations of fundamental rights. this report is a first step towards establishing a mechanism to safeguard democracy.
in writing. the european union ensures respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, both within the union and at international level. these common values are enshrined in the treaty and the eu charter of fundamental rights. since 2009, there has been a procedure allowing the european commission to take action against a member state that violates these principles, but this mechanism is difficult to implement. in view of the recent attacks on the powers of the constitutional court in poland and on press freedom in hungary and croatia, the union should adopt a more ambitious and flexible instrument. the existing procedure must be more binding, have clearly defined criteria and be based on concrete evidence of fundamental rights violations. this is the very meaning of the european pact on fundamental rights which the european parliament calls for.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of an eu mechanism for 'democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. in reality, it is an eu mechanism to take political control of member states that do not respect its own definition of these three principles. each member state will be subject to an annual control. a panel of experts will produce a report which will then be adopted by the commission. the text also calls for the eu to accede to the european convention on human rights, which will strengthen the influence of the european court of human rights and the council of europe, of which turkey and albania are members. paragraph 20 calls for a revision of the treaty, which would allow one third of the members of the european parliament to refer a matter to the court of justice after a text has been finally adopted and before it is implemented. this is a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states. even the french socialist government has declared that the proposal is not in accordance with the treaties. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: in reality, it is an eu mechanism to take political control of member states that do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the principle of subsidiarity, which i believe is essential for europe to be effective, is called into question. it is true that it is essential to guarantee democracy and fundamental freedoms in europe, but the prescribed method is not the right one! in this case, the establishment of a mechanism for the evaluation of all member states and sanctions in the field of fundamental rights is beyond the european competence. each member state exercises democratic control over its territory and the european union has no mandate in this area to impose its choices. finally, the report recommends possible amendments to the treaties, in particular to the procedure for referral to the court of justice of the eu: this is an excessive request in view of the current satisfactory functioning of the court.
in writing. to join the eu, candidate countries must respect the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. however, within the eu, compliance with these principles is difficult to monitor and enforce. the tools created by the union, such as article 7 teu or the rule of law mechanism, may come too late, be difficult to apply or even be misunderstood. the hungarian and polish cases have shown this. the european parliament therefore proposes that the eu should establish a mechanism for regular assessment of the respect for the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in the member states and the three main eu institutions. including relevant interlocutors and experts and based on objective criteria, the pact is designed as a prerequisite to article 7 and suggests easier activation of sanctions - including financial ones. i supported this report because it is essential not to compromise on the rule of law, especially when the respect of economic rules is subject to regular and recurrent european checks. i also welcome the fact that this report proposes an awareness campaign for european citizens and residents about their fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ while i share the concerns expressed in principle about the deviations in certain member states such as poland and am convinced that there is a need to reflect on how to guarantee democracy and fundamental freedoms in europe, i am more reserved about the prescribed method. the proposal voted today is legally 'not credible'. the european parliament, for example, insists on the principle of separation of powers, but at the same time it arrogates to itself the right to monitor and sanction member states while continuing to exercise its legislative role. in addition to the 'democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights pact', the report recommends possible amendments to the treaties, in particular the modalities for referral to the court of justice of the eu, which would weaken the role of national judicial authorities, hamper the european decision-making process and threaten the principle of subsidiarity. in my view, it is a mistake to believe that citizens want permanent surveillance from institutions with which they have little in common. what we are asked to do is to ensure the proper functioning of national institutions, in particular national parliaments, not to replace them.
in writing. ‒ there is a danger that the report will move towards greater eu political leverage over member states that are resistant to its interpretation of fundamental rights and democracy. i would just point out that the french government itself has rejected this proposal as being incompatible with the european treaties and hostile to the sovereignty of states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague sophie int veld, which requires the european commission to create a european mechanism for democracy and the rule of law, with the aim of placing states under permanent surveillance, accompanied by annual reports which could lead the commission to impose sanctions on member states. i am opposed to this kind of moralizing mechanism which is contrary to eu law. by insisting on the introduction of this mechanism, parliament is allowing itself to monitor and sanction the states while acting as legislator. this is an unreliable interpretation of the principle of separation of powers. if the protection of fundamental rights is an important cause, the principle of subsidiarity is a fundamental principle which prevents me from supporting this report.
in writing. ‒ in the light of recent controversies, notably concerning hungary and poland, on the respect for the rule of law, we discussed an own-initiative report proposing an annual mechanism to verify the respect for democracy and fundamental rights by member states. the measures proposed by the dutch liberal rapporteur are aimed at imposing permanent and widespread surveillance of the member states by a committee of appointed experts, on the basis of criteria that are not at all clear, such as the 'impartiality of the state', which is not really defined. we do not agree with this idea of a europe that teaches lessons and moralizes, even though we are, of course, in favour of the rule of law and respect for the values of the european charter of fundamental rights! this gas-factory mechanism, whose idea has been supported by a majority of members of parliament, since the report by our dutch colleague has been adopted, seems to us to be likely to violate the principle of subsidiarity and to be, as it stands, inadequate. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ hungary and now poland have been the scene of worrying developments. the ultra-conservative governments that were just elected there systematically began to deconstruct the institutional counterpowers and to take over the media. the european union is completely powerless in the face of these developments: the only tool at its disposal is the suspension of voting rights in the council, that is to say, to take away from a government its power to influence european decisions. but she's reluctant to use it because she thinks it's too strong. knowing this hesitation, the autocratic apprentices did not hesitate to increase their provocations and test european reactions. it is therefore important to change this impunity. the european parliament's proposal to create a rule of law monitoring mechanism goes in this direction. the mechanism would produce an annual report on the state of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, which would enable people to have an independent assessment of developments in their democracy. so i supported the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the creation of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in reality, it is a mechanism by which the eu seizes political control of those member states which do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. each member state will be subject to an annual control. a panel of experts will make a report which will then be adopted by the commission. the report also advocates eu accession to the european convention on human rights, which will strengthen the influence of the european court of human rights and the council of europe, which includes turkey, albania, etc. paragraph 20 calls for a revision of the treaty, which would allow one third of the members of the european parliament to refer a matter to the court of justice after a text has been finally adopted and before it is implemented. this is a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this is a mechanism by which the eu seizes political control of member states, particularly those that do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. each member state will be subject to annual monitoring by a panel of experts who will report to the commission. even the french government has declared that the proposal is not in accordance with the treaties. it is therefore a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states, and i could only vote against it.
in writing. the union is working to ensure that its founding principles are respected within it. it has ineffective instruments to prevent violations of fundamental rights in its member states. this is illustrated by the situation in poland, where the separation of powers is weakened by the position of the constitutional tribunal, which is unable to monitor the conformity of laws in that country. if compliance with the union's economic and fiscal rules is scrutinized in a systematic and almost surgically meticulous way, respect for the rule of law should deserve at least the same attention. the commission's owninitiative report proposes the establishment of an annual evaluation mechanism - by a panel of independent experts - of the respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights by the member states and the three main eu institutions. i am voting in favour of this text because the mechanism it proposes to create would represent an undeniable step forward for the protection of fundamental rights and democracy at union level.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text proposes the creation of an eu mechanism for 'democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. the european parliament is thus seeking to give the commission new tools to take political control of the member states by placing the commission above national governments. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances. a report on each state will then be adopted by the commission. this report is a direct attack on the sovereignty of the member states, or rather on the illusion of sovereignty which we still have after decades of french governments submitting to the technocrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ the commission strictly enforces austerity economic rules, but makes no provision for respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which are enshrined as fundamental values in the treaties. there is article 7, but the procedure is long and complex. this report therefore proposes an interinstitutional agreement to ensure that these principles are respected. while i have been following the debate on the hungarian constitutional reform and the recent reforms in poland closely, for fear that the european commission will once again be given discretionary powers, i welcome the fact that this evaluation involves legitimate and independent bodies (council of europe, un...), in addition to consulting national parliaments. in concrete terms, this report opens up the possibility of legal action on the legality of an austerity measure taken by a state which would infringe rights to access to healthcare, for example. i regret that the agreement does not target the european institutions, and in particular the eurogroup, with the same degree of assiduity, but i would nevertheless vote in favour of this step forward for citizens' rights if it were to come to fruition. the commission has until september 2017 to bury or alter it.
in writing. ‒ it is a mechanism by which the eu seizes political control of member states, including those that do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. each member state will be subject to annual monitoring by a panel of experts who will report to the commission. even the french government has declared that the proposal is not in accordance with the treaties. it is therefore a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states, and i have naturally opposed it.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in reality, it is a mechanism designed to take political control of member states that do not respect the interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights that brussels wants. each member state will be subject to an annual control. a panel of experts (one judge per member state and ten experts appointed by the european parliament) will draw up a report which will then be adopted by the commission. the report also advocates the union's accession to the european convention on human rights, which will strengthen the influence of the european court of human rights and the council of europe (which includes turkey, albania, etc.). paragraph 20 calls for a revision of the treaty, which would allow one third of the members of the european parliament to refer a matter to the court of justice after a text has been finally adopted and before it is implemented. this is a regular attack on the sovereignty of the member states. even the french government has declared that the proposal is not in accordance with the treaties. this report is bound to arouse strong condemnation.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in reality, it is a mechanism by which the union takes political control of the member states. the report also advocates the union's accession to the european convention on human rights, which will strengthen the influence of the european court of human rights and the council of europe (which includes turkey, albania, etc.). it is therefore a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states and i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the report contains several provisions designed to amend the treaties, in particular the deletion of article 51 of the charter of fundamental rights, which delimits the union's competences in the field of justice. this would seriously undermine the principle of subsidiarity and weaken the justice of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. today, there is no mechanism for systematic and comprehensive monitoring of member states and european institutions in the event of violations of european texts, democracy, the rule of law or fundamental rights. i naturally support the proposal to set up an annual assessment mechanism for the respect of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights by the member states and the three main eu institutions. this system would thus continuously assess the situation of the rule of law throughout the european union. this proposal is a step forward for the protection of fundamental rights and democracy at eu level!
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of an eu mechanism for 'democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. in reality, it is a mechanism by which the eu seizes political control of those member states which do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. each member state will be subject to an annual control. a panel of experts (1 judge per member state, plus 10 experts appointed by the european parliament) will draw up a report which will then be adopted by the commission. the report also advocates eu accession to the european convention on human rights, which will strengthen the influence of the european court of human rights and the council of europe (which includes turkey, albania, etc.). paragraph 20 calls for a revision of the treaty, which would allow one third of the members of the european parliament to refer a matter to the court of justice after a text has been finally adopted and before it is implemented. this is a legitimate attack on the sovereignty of the member states, and even the french government has declared that the proposal is not in accordance with the treaties. it is obvious that i shall vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is a matter of courage to say that i am not criticizing the principles which guide the drafting of this report, because these are fundamental values which we all share. it is not really a matter of being against democracy, the rule of law and even less against fundamental rights. the choice of whether to vote for or against this report must be guided by consistency and respect for the european rules decided by the member states. the (liberal) rapporteur of this text has clearly chosen to promote rules which would threaten the institutional balance of the european union and impose a general and permanent surveillance of the member states. this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. at a time when critics of the european union are growing, it would be a pity to promote a union that is seen as a lesson to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the own-initiative report on the eu rule of law mechanism. this vote by the european parliament is a victory for the europe of values and democracy. being part of a team means respecting its rules. otherwise, the integrity and legitimacy of the collective are compromised. the eu is a global community of states, which is composed of all the countries of the world. these are criteria which must be respected on a daily basis by the member states. unfortunately, the reality is quite different. for this reason, it is essential that the union finally has a mechanism that continuously assesses the respect for the rule of law by the member states and the european institutions, in an impartial and independent manner, without influence from the political power. it is not just a question of reacting when harm is done, but also and above all of preventing the risk of serious threats to democracy and fundamental rights. the union cannot remain a single large market for goods and services. it is a political space which has at its heart an ideal and the principles which are inherent in its existence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the creation of a union mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. more than a single market, the european union is a community of values that has succeeded in establishing respect for the rule of law, the cornerstone of democracy, on a lasting basis. however, while there are rules to ensure that the latter is properly respected, there is no systematic and impartial monitoring mechanism. this is the aim of this report, which proposes the establishment of an annual monitoring mechanism for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. in the light of recent developments in poland and hungary, such a mechanism would complement the existing framework and implement article 7 of the treaty more effectively. to this end, the report provides for corrective mechanisms and the inclusion of civil society, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the creation of an eu mechanism for 'democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. in reality, it is a mechanism by which the eu seizes political control of those member states which do not respect its interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the rapporteur proposes that the commission should appoint a group of judges and experts from outside europe. this text is a direct attack on the member states and i have strongly opposed it.
in writing. ‒ this report, adopted by a large majority in the european parliament, proposes the establishment of a comprehensive mechanism to ensure respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights at eu level, in the form of an interinstitutional agreement. the purpose of this mechanism is to monitor the respect by the member states of the union's democratic objectives. it provides for elements of prevention and sanction against violations of fundamental rights, an annual european public report including country-specific recommendations, and an annual interparliamentary debate on the basis of the report. this report - if implemented - could be a step forward in trying to enable eu member states to respect human rights and the rule of law, especially in view of the worrying developments in countries such as hungary and poland, which the fn has taken as an example. i have no illusions about the developments, since the council is more than ever closed to any internal control of the member states' policies in this area, but i have nevertheless chosen to support the position of the european parliament.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, in the history of our continent, circumstances have rarely called for such a european union. the greatest danger is that of stagnation, with each day seeming to bring a new crisis and with the mistrust deepening. the commission's programme of work must therefore be a programme of struggle, a struggle for the reindustrialisation of our continent, the revival of the economy and the fight against the unemployment which is undermining our societies. i am glad to see that the commission is making space one of its industrial priorities. the use of space data and the independence of our access to space are essential to our industrial fabric. i also place all my hopes in a european defence or an ambitious digital plan. the fight must also be for the convergence of our economies and the protection of the euro area. in this area, we must make up for the chronic lack of investment, despite the juncker plan, in our continent by strengthening the banking and capital markets union. i also advocate for more tax and social justice. the commission's proposals to combat tax evasion and tax havens are in line with this. finally, i say that we must fight to promote high standards of environmental protection and health. i end with regret on this point because these are the most precious assets of our citizens and unfortunately there is a glaring lack of a positive programme from the commission on health, while so much remains to be done in the fight against cancer and antimicrobial resistance or to make europe a champion of innovative health. all of these contribute to growth.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i believe you have come to tell us about the european commission's refit programme. that is part of your mandate, but it is clearly not the way to convince our fellow citizens that the commission cares about what concerns them or what worries them. i will leave aside how you will manage the brexit negotiation once article 50 has been put on the table by theresa may, but for this year 2017, no one can, of course, ignore the stakes of this negotiation. i would like to stress three priorities. the first is the logical follow-up to the paris conference and the need to over-determine an investment strategy for the ecological transition. in 2017, you have several tools at your disposal to help you achieve this goal. i am thinking, of course, first of all of the renewal programme for the efsi investment plan. this time you must listen to the european parliament and make it a tool for the ecological transition. this is a strategy which must also be reflected in the stability and growth pact. second priority: the completion of economic and monetary union, of course; i won't surprise you. but the white paper which the european commission had been given responsibility for in the report by the five presidents became a report on the future of the european union. the first is that the european union must be a political union. the last point is trade policy, as you can see.
mr president, mr vice-president, your commission claims that smes are at the heart of its concerns. this is all the better because a year ago this parliament proposed a simple and effective measure to support them: the recognition of geographical indications for handicraft products. we have been waiting for a proposal from the commission for a year now. textiles, ceramics, cutlery and stone are all sectors and smes that require effective protection from the european commission. local jobs could be strengthened and unfair competition from products from outside the european union avoided. this is a recurring demand of consumers who expect certainty about the products they buy. it is also a demand of the citizens who want the european commission to show real concern for the situation in the territories and to show that it understands their expectations and is as close as possible to the daily lives of citizens and businesses. mr vice-president, we are waiting for a legislative proposal from the commission. we 're counting on you . don't let hope become impatience or resentment.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to congratulate the council, because we are debating today a resolution which responds to the legislative package presented by the commission on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, and because it will obviously be a key partner. this draft revision by the commission confirms parliament's clear-sightedness on the need for a genuine revision. i thank you for that, madam vice-president. this is a first budget in the history of the european union and i welcome the commission's position, which, like parliament, has concluded after examination that the current framework cannot be continued. it's a first victory that calls for more. but there is one important thing missing: the council, which should be here to present its position and listen to the members. the council must quickly present its position to us, without waiting for the last day of the conciliation, at the risk of delaying the budgetary procedure. we therefore hope that we can sit down together at the same table without delay to open these negotiations. what is the content of the resolution which will be put to the vote of the members of parliament tomorrow? it highlights a certain convergence of views between the three institutions on the priorities of the european union: the fight against youth unemployment, measures on migration and refugees, cop 21, agricultural crises, under-investment and internal security. the debate is about the main european priorities. but that is no longer the case. i believe that we are speaking with one voice today. the question now is whether we will stick to declarations or give ourselves the financial means. the commission's draft revision provides some solutions, particularly on flexibility, which allows for better use of all the resources of the financial framework. these flexibility instruments, which were negotiated by the european parliament with great effort in 2013, have proved to be a lifesaver in the first years of the mff's implementation in order to cope with the unforeseen events and crises we are experiencing. how could we have predicted in 2013 the current migration phenomenon, brexit or the new challenges of internal security? these flexibility tools have been very much in demand and, without revision, they will simply not be enough to meet the commitments we have made to our fellow europeans. our resolution welcomes the commission's proposals for flexibility extensions, although we believe that further steps will be needed, particularly to strengthen the emergency aid reserve and the flexibility instrument. as regards the union's crisis reserve, we welcome the fact that this idea, proposed by parliament - as you said, madam vice-president - has been taken up by the commission. the scope and funding of the programme will have to be considered further. budgetary flexibility is neither a luxury nor a whim, and this has been demonstrated. it is a powerful tool in long-term budgetary planning, which is designed to respond to situations which we cannot anticipate. we also support the proposals for the use of the automatic appropriations in the european budget. these appropriations, which are intended to be spent under the union budget, must logically be kept in that budget and not taken out of it. as for payments, we said in july that the ostrich policy would lead to serious disappointments at the end of the period. we have to take responsibility. the credibility of the european institutions is at stake, but, more seriously, the situation of the beneficiaries, whether local and regional authorities, businesses or students on erasmus mobility, who would have to wait for the european union to be able to pay their bills. this hidden deficit, if i may use the expression, is contrary to the treaty. the revision should make it possible to solve this problem by calculating special instruments, excluding ceilings, and by making the overall margin for payments more flexible. the solutions are on the table and the discussion must now begin with a common objective: every union bill must be paid on time. however, let me make a few criticisms. we regret in particular that the commission's draft does not propose to raise the expenditure ceilings for heading 1a on competitiveness for growth and employment, heading 1b on economic, social and territorial cohesion and headings 3 and 4. we need to break the deadlock of unfunded advertising. i will take only one example: the fight against youth unemployment. it's a shared priority. the commission has just given a positive assessment of the youth employment initiative, which is recognised as a success, not a complete one, but never a complete one. however, while the six billion appropriations for this programme are exhausted, the commission's proposal provides for only one billion euro of reinforcement until 2020. this is notoriously inadequate in the face of the tragedy experienced by 25% of young europeans under the age of 25. at least the same amount, namely eur 6 billion, must be added to the end of the budget period. the debate on the merits of the revision is just beginning. we in parliament are ready to open negotiations. we know that the commission is also. we are now waiting for the council and, as we said in july and as we reiterate in the resolution which i hope will be voted on tomorrow, parliament wishes to conduct the negotiations on the 2017 budget and the revision of the multiannual financial framework in parallel. the letter of amendment no 1 on the 2017 budget demonstrates this: the revision will necessarily have consequences for the 2017 budget. these two dossiers must therefore be negotiated at the same time. madam president, i have only my conclusion to say, if i may. to this end, parliament has set up a single negotiating team on these two subjects. we have our mandate, adopted in july, which we are completing today. it is now up to the council to speed up. there is no time to lose for our fellow citizens and for europe.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam commissioner, you are trying to do better with nothing more. this is a desperate exercise in the constrained framework of the mff. you were pushed into this, it is true, by the lack of ambition in the european council which, despite brexit, the refugee crisis and the despair of the european peoples, remains convinced that nothing must change. you have also censured yourself by putting on the table a minimum proposal which mourns your own european ambitions. the european parliament, for its part, is not able to create a real political balance of power with the european council, and it is not much help to you either. in the end, we will end up with a real fake revision when we should have changed everything. i therefore also want to send a message to my colleagues in the european parliament that we must have the courage... (the president withdrew the speaker)
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am surprised that the council is not here. i would like to pay tribute to the outstanding work of our co-correspondents, isabelle thomas and jan olbrycht. they set out here, by way of resolution, the basic principles of negotiation with the council. i feel that we are coming to the end of a cycle and that the revision of the multiannual financial framework must put an end to two hypocritical practices. the first concerns the flexibility levers, the so-called special instruments. during the negotiations on the financial perspective for 2014-2020, it was agreed that these special instruments, in response to exceptional circumstances and crises, would be above the ceilings. then, as we tried, we found that the council did not want to accept that if there was subscription above the ceilings for commitments, there must be corresponding subscription above the ceilings for payments. the council rejects this version and that is how the remaining balance is being worked out and how we are going to find ourselves faced with a major difficulty tomorrow. the second hypocrisy concerns the practice of hiding our impunity by multiplying the budgetary satellites: the juncker fund for strategic investments, the facilities for turkey and other trust funds. this practice is contrary to the principle of budgetary unity and creates a dead end for parliamentary control. the resulting galaxy is a mirage. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is an opportunity to put the budgetary house in order and to instill sincerity in a budget which has lost all readability. let us beware: a union whose budget is not understandable to its citizens is a union in danger. it is therefore urgent that the commission's intelligent proposal for a revision be given substance.
madam president, i would first like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs, jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas, for the quality of their work. we knew that in 2013 and we said it right here. in deciding to reduce the community budget for seven years, the european council forbid itself to finance any new policies and decided that there would be no unforeseen events for seven years. this will go down in history as the pinnacle of political myopia. we're revising this framework midway through. are we going to confirm that the world stopped until 2020 and that mass emigration, terrorist massacres, brexit, the digital revolution, cop21 and soon the 22, the war in ukraine, the agricultural crises did not happen? this revision will be useful if it allows at least a gradual return to european common sense and common sense in general. firstly, european policies must be financed from the european budget alone; president arthuis has said it forcefully. secondly, the european budget must be financed from own resources. the monti group, in which we work, madam commissioner, will be finalising its proposals in the coming days. thirdly, when the member states call on the union, everyone, in brussels and at home, must ensure that european action does not result in more spending, but in less total public spending and therefore less taxation. mutualisation allows greater efficiency at the same or lower cost; this is called subsidiarity.
madam president, i would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs, jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas, and vice-president georgieva for meeting what i consider to be a democratic requirement, since the elected representatives of this parliament did not participate in the very constitution of the multiannual financial framework. it seems to me therefore natural that we should be able to vote today on the amendment of this framework. in any case, i hope that the council will follow the example of both parliament and the commission so that the revision is effective. we need it. europe needs it; european policies need it. today we must not only revise this financial framework, but also look forward to a multiannual financial framework beyond 2020 with own resources, as mr lamassoure very rightly said earlier.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as head of the other sections on behalf of the s&d group, my contributions and those of my colleagues were in the direction of a balanced budget but politically offensive. budgetary resources are, in a sense, the political fuel of the european parliament. i therefore ask all my colleagues to support this approach to give the european parliament a say in european governance. the european parliament will be awakened at this price and our institution will thus play the democratic role which it should. of course, as far as administrative matters are concerned, the reduction commitments will have to be kept, without, however, jeopardizing the various representative institutions. i am thinking in particular of the economic and social council, which deals with social questions; the committee of the regions, which deals with territorial questions; the court of justice and others. finally, security issues will indeed have to be allocated the necessary funds for the protection of both people and property. as a member of the committee on budgets, i would like to stress that the budget should not be a matter for specialists, but should be at the heart of european policies. the budget is not being taken into account, and the community policies are not being taken into account. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the draft budget for 2017, as adopted by the committee on budgets, which uses all the flexibilities, including the revision of the mff, is a budget that could suit us in the current context and must be taken into account in its entirety by the council and i stress this very strongly. if this were not the case, we would be putting at risk the promoters of cohesion projects, the farmers concerned by the common agricultural policy, but also the very existence of europe in the world, particularly in view of the question of migrants. finally, we would not take into account the problems of employment, especially youth employment. however, we must not lose sight of the need for new resources. we cannot go on forever introducing new policies without securing funding for them. the budget cannot be a common pot in which everyone is using himself but no one wants to fill it.
mr president, mr minister, i believe that the budget which the commission has tabled was proposed by the committee on budgets. i would like to pay tribute to the excellent work of our rapporteurs, mr geier and mr tarand, whom i thank and congratulate. however, we should be careful not to try to make the budget promise what it cannot deliver. that said, mr minister, you are the president of the ecofin council and it has not escaped you that the draft budget for 2017, as presented, takes account of a revision of the multiannual financial framework. it constitutes the first part of this revision. how is it that the revision is the responsibility of another council, the general affairs council? i would like to warn you and the slovak presidency against a risk, a threat of schizophrenia. we urgently need to know the council's position on the revision of the multiannual financial framework. let's not get this wrong. let us ensure that this budget is sincere and that the priorities are served by appropriate means. we must be careful, because this budget galaxy no longer means anything and is illegible to our fellow citizens. this situation cannot continue any longer, because it weakens the european union. mr president, a mock budget would be an expression of a mock europe. we need to guard against it.
mr president, the draft budget you are presenting to us is not without paradoxes. you want to increase efforts towards youth employment, but it is precisely your policies that are causing the euro area to have the highest youth unemployment in the world. you want to help the agricultural sector, but it is precisely your policies, between the end of milk quotas and unbridled competition, that cause a farmer to commit suicide every two days in france. you also want to put some rust on the migration disaster you have caused by leaving europe's borders open. we even note that you push the vice to the point of providing a budget for the integration of migrants when, as we were told, they were not meant to stay with us. finally, the embryo of european defence is sketched out. however, this latest attack on the most fundamental element of a state's sovereignty is never more than the last gasp of a dying institution. the european union is dying. long live the french! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". the committee on budgets' meeting, which i attended yesterday, went on for a long time because you thought it was a good idea to hold a meeting of the coordinators in the middle of the vote. i am sorry, i had urgent appointments and therefore could not attend the vote on my amendments. i shall, however, continue to table amendments to reduce the inconsistent expenditure you are making in this budget.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we wish you more luck than your predecessors who, on 16 march 2011, put the previous proposal on the table. you brought it up, maybe the context has changed. the idea that tax evasion must be tackled and that the absence of a consolidated corporate tax base encourages tax evasion has been widely spread. the idea that, in the end, between our economies - since we are always told about competition between our economies - it is better to actually know what taxes are paid, which is not the case today. the proposal you put on the table seems to us to be a good basis for discussion, but you have anticipated the three or four points on which, of course, in the eyes of the european parliament, there could be a debate. you insisted that the consolidation would be done in parallel. it is the very essence of the project, because it is the most effective way of combating tax evasion. so i hope that this parliament will be as firm as possible in ensuring that the two go hand in hand. as regards research and development, you have set up - perhaps drawing on existing examples in some member states - an innovative project which i believe can promote a dynamic investment strategy at european level. we will of course be careful that this does not become another escape pocket. you have set a turnover threshold of 750 million euros, which is certainly a mandatory threshold, but you may expect that some in this parliament will want to lower this turnover to widen the consolidated basis of this tax. finally, of course, at some point, the question of the minimum rate of corporation tax will come up again, as you know. i am sure that this parliament, and in any case the socialist and democratic group, will do everything possible to support this proposal as fruitfully as possible, since it meets a real need on the part of businesses, states and our fellow citizens.
mr president, i should first like to congratulate the commissioner and the commission and thank them for having fulfilled the commitments they have made today and for tomorrow in terms of consolidation. having a uniform definition of taxable profit throughout the union is not a revolutionary idea, nor even a new objective. the principle was accepted almost 20 years ago by all governments, including, mr coburn, by the british government of the day. this seemed to be a matter of course for the proper functioning of the single market. but it took the lux leaks scandal and the pressure of public opinion to bring this evidence out of the shadows. we say yes to tax competition within the european union itself, but in transparency, fairness and loyalty. that's the goal of your project. the experience gained in the taxe committee leads me to make two recommendations. the first is to our parliament: let us make the most of the relationship we have established with the relevant committees of both houses of the united states congress. when it comes to taxes, congress decides, not the administration. the first source of tax-optimisation schemes is us legislation. secondly, i would like to give a piece of advice to our governments: our direct taxation is a century behind schedule. it was designed for the industrial economy of the mid-20th century, but it is not suited to the era of globalisation and digitalisation. all our countries are now encouraged to concentrate taxation on people and companies who cannot easily emigrate, which is an economic mistake and a grave social injustice.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the european union is now a sieve open to all winds. in this open area, how could we monitor for organisms entering the imported products? this dogmatic refusal to control has actually allowed the entry of organisms harmful to plants. in the past, the tomato worm, then the asian mosquito and, more recently, the xylella fastidiosa have been able to colonize our territories. we are still importing products from countries we do not trust, which do not have our standards or our requirements, and whose management is more than opaque. then let the states decide! the risk of isolation and the spirit of cooperation should, in my view, be enough for everyone to put in place a sound and safe health policy. we say yes to increased controls, to the requirement of traceability which we keep asking for, to the drawing up of a list of countries potentially at risk, and to all these precautionary measures, especially if they are decided by sovereign states in a spirit of cooperation. we do not, however, accept that the commission should decide by distributing the points and penalties to the states or regions. unfortunately, as is often the case with the uerss, we expect the worst. the expectation is that the states will be sidelined in the debate, deprived of their sovereignty for the benefit of the commission. it is the commission which defines the problem and decides the solution. in the case of xylella fastidiosa, it imposed the grubbing-up of the sick trees on the puglia region, its neighbours and the neighbours of their neighbours. it's been going on forever. welcome to the best of all worlds where the unelected european commission - i should point out - is the alpha and omega of health policy. the commission is always the same: some hope for the best, others prepare for the worst.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the negotiating team, which has been very patient with mrs mcintyre, because we have been negotiating this text for a long time. i think this text is necessary because public opinion and we ourselves want to see less use of pesticides to protect our crops. the best way to protect crops is to avoid exposing them to primary infection. now, in order to prevent primary infection, we need to have controls that are more active in the different circulations. i would rather have effective controls at antwerp airport than farmers sitting idly by with infected crops, unable to treat them because we will not have the products to do so and because research is not going fast enough. you can see it with xylella. the time of the search is unfortunately not the time of the infection, it is much longer. we need more research to find solutions, but globalization of trade makes infection easier. several cases have already been cited. other examples include flies on cherry trees and the problem of the asian hornet, which also carries a number of diseases. i think that we will therefore have effective legislation as of tomorrow. it must be voted as negotiated.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the risk of developing, in particular, cardiovascular diseases or certain cancers due to the excessive consumption of trans fatty acids is well established. the lowest social groups are at the forefront, given the concentration of these substances in some cheap foods. the member states cannot remedy this situation, exacerbated by the crisis and austerity, by controlling imported goods, given the dogma of free movement. i have been keen to join the work of the european parliament because the limitation of trans fats is a public health emergency. the regulatory response must, however, be measured and adapted. first, it must be adapted to national consumption habits and cuisines. (the president cut the speaker off) it must then be measured because, keeping in mind the distinction between natural and industrial trans fats, we cannot penalise the dairy sector which is in chronic difficulties. finally, in a period of economic stagnation, it would be inappropriate to increase the regulatory and administrative burdens on businesses. this is all the more true since incentive measures have proved effective where they have been introduced. so let us beware of repressive measures at a time when corporate social responsibility may be enough to meet our ultimate objectives.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i hope you will use your fourth blue card in this debate. once again, ladies and gentlemen, you are being confounded by a principle which you have devoted to your own exclusive use: democracy. after the british brexit, the walloon assembly decided to do what it was elected to do, which, incidentally, amazed you: defend the walloons. i can't believe this! the treaty you negotiated in secret with canada, which was to enter into force before it was even approved - which, you will admit, is quite scandalous - is not in the interests of the peoples. it would certainly benefit a few very rich multinationals but not the vast majority of citizens. an independent american study by tufts university assesses its consequences: the destruction of 45,000 jobs in france and 200,000 in europe, lower wages, reduced scope for public policy, lower growth, higher public deficits... don't tell me the walloons are blocking the others. that's not true! the reality is that they are simply the only ones who have been able to speak out. the rejection of ceta is largely due to the fact that people have been given the wrong information, but on the contrary, they have been shown the disaster that ultra-liberal free trade policies have caused in europe. you assured us that europe was peace. it's almost like a smile. but in your rage, in the face of failure, you use force, the shameful pressures denounced by mr. magnette, the unworthy maneuvers, the authoritarian ultimatums. a democratic assembly has spoken. forgive me, but you must submit or resign. any other choice would reveal an authoritarian regime that is freedom-threatening. finally, mr juncker, mr president schulz will forgive me if i take a few seconds to highlight your early conversion to protectionism, a concept which is despised by the european institutions. i see in this, let me say, a spectacular ideological victory for us, which you know very well always precedes political victories. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr coburn, i think that the majority of the people of europe are in favour of this position. it is only their elites who betray them on a daily basis and who continue to defend a system that is collapsing on itself. that is why i want a referendum not only in my own country but also, as i am not selfish, in all the countries of the european union so that their people can have a say on this issue.
madam president, mr juncker, mr tusk, you speak on behalf of the workers about ceta; listen to the employees, they don't want it. you claim to speak for consumers; listen to them, they don't want ceta. you claim to speak for the european citizens, but what will you say to them, mr juncker, when the commission finally does its job on endocrine disruptors and bayer and monsanto condemn europe for the measures taken? what will you say to the citizens of europe, mr tusk, when europe does its job as a climate leader and canadian oil sands, oil and shale gas companies attack europe? what will you say to european farmers when they are destroyed by canadian intensive farming where animals are stuffed with antibiotics and mistreated? by adopting this european model of unimpeded movement of goods, merchandise and investment, but with barbed wire, walls and camps for people, you are rolling out the red carpet to the far right and to all nationalisms. have the courage to go to the court of justice of the european union about ceta! be consistent in your words and go to the court of justice of the european union!
madam president, the challenges of migration at a time when the french government is having difficulty dealing with the relocation of migrants with the closure of the calais jungle, the war in syria or ceta: we are all chasing news that causes crises. worse, we are creating new ones on commercial issues that we have control over. all the member states supported ceta, but europe was held hostage by wallonia. false arguments, untruths and political posturing will always be stronger than any guarantees, because we are in the irrational. the request by paul magnette for guarantees of human rights in canada is a complete absurdity. who can be the authority or who is credible to explain that our companies will have access to canadian public procurement, that our geographical indications will be protected, that investment arbitration has been revised as some member states and citizens wanted? who is credible? politicians, ngos, the media or corporations? the lack of education, communication and involvement of the states, whether in trade agreements or in trade defence instruments, has made us all lose credibility. mr juncker, i agree with you. the red line between protectionism and protectionism must guide our decisions. we must protect or create jobs if we are firm and pragmatic in defending our interests. tomorrow, it will be the other way around if we let the rest of the world set the rules of the global economy for us. those who stand by their positions without a proposal will then inevitably bear this responsibility.
madam president, what is happening in wallonia must not be covered up or swept away with a simple flick of the wrist. on the contrary, it must be analysed and understood to find new perspectives. first, it is an expression of an overwhelming need for protection that must be heard. european employment and the european way of life cannot be the adjustment variables of international trade, and free trade cannot be the only political horizon offered to the people. secondly, the union's trade policy must be free of its naïveté. we cannot continue to have the least effective anti-dumping duties and the most open public procurement in the world. let us finally equip ourselves with instruments of commercial defence worthy of the name. let us finally take a tough stance on china in early december. trade policy and the defence of our strategic interests are not mutually exclusive. the united states is a clear example of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft budget for 2017, which already confirms the budgetary increases foreseen in the revision, in particular on the programme for youth employment, research and the milk crisis. however, we will not vote on the budget without a revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). we ask that the negotiations also cover the next financial perspective in order to put an end to the structural shortage caused by the growing imbalance between the weakness of own resources and national contributions. parliament is ready to negotiate with the council and is determined to avoid the budgetary crisis which threatens the union. we expect the council to have a proposal on the revision of the mff in order to start the discussion. the ball is in the court of the member states!
in writing. ‒ the main budgetary problems raised in the amendments to this draft are many. however, they are mainly linked to the unprecedented migration crisis affecting the eu. while the crisis in payments (related to unpaid invoices and outstanding amounts) that emerged at the beginning of the implementation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 seems to have been resolved since the implementation of the 2016 budget, the budget is now stretched by drawing on the new flexibility instruments to finance the influx of migrants, exceeding the ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) of the mff, or as a last resort, the margin for contingencies (eur 1.2 billion) to redistribute appropriations between the headings. this is in addition to the €200 million mobilised through the emergency aid fund voted this year. in total, france's planned contribution is expected to amount to eur 18.5 billion for 2017. finally, the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework will be an opportunity for the europeans to push for a european tax. that is why i voted against most of the amendments put to the vote by the members.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget is the first instalment of a revised framework. the draft budget put forward by the commission can only be successful if the revision of the multiannual financial framework is approved. we must now turn to the council, which unfortunately is struggling to provide a comprehensive answer to the budgetary problems. in these times of crisis, there is therefore a need to coordinate the positions of the european parliament and the council. in that sense i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against most of the amendments tabled by meps on the draft general budget of the european union for 2017, although i welcome some of the amendments tabled, such as the reinstatement of the european agricultural guarantee fund, which will be beneficial for our agricultural sector in this period of endemic crisis. i take this opportunity to express my opposition to the council's proposal which focuses all its increases (+ 7% for payment appropriations) on managing the migration crisis, a humanitarian, social and economic disaster which the eu has largely contributed to aggravating. it is scandalous that this project is thus reducing the margin available under the ceiling of heading 2 (which relates in particular to the cap) in order to finance expenditure on migrants. in addition, after two consecutive increases in 2015 and 2016, €5.2 billion will be allocated to the management of this crisis in 2017. finally, how can we support the increase in the budget for heading 3 'citizenship and security', even though the eu has been pressing member states for years to disintegrate their own defence budgets? this is an unacceptable federalist maneuver.
in writing. ‒ the vote will be on the adoption of several amendments to the draft budget for 2017, submitted by the council but rejected by the committee on budgets. the council's proposals were mainly aimed at increasing commitment appropriations by 0.9% and payment appropriations by 7% compared to 2016. these additional funds are intended in particular to finance the reception of illegal migrants in the member states of the union. at a time when the peoples of europe are suffering from mass unemployment and precariousness, it is astonishing to see the european union give priority to the comfort of illegal migrants. this proposal shows how far the technocrats in brussels are from the daily lives of our fellow citizens. as regards the economic growth component, the project gives a satisfactory response to the juncker investment plan, which is no longer inefficient in view of the small amount of private capital it has managed to drain. there was no final vote.
in writing. ‒ the european union's 2016 budget, although it has helped to reduce the effects of the payment crisis, is now suffering from too much demand to finance the massive arrival of migrants. this means that france will have to pay the excess amount of €18.5 billion for the year 2017 as a contribution. the threat of a european tax, which europeans want, is looming. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ like a large majority of my colleagues, i have approved this draft budget of the european union for 2017. our assembly adopted a more ambitious and voluntary approach than that initially put forward by the european commission, by increasing funding for employment, youth and also for helping third countries to cope with the migration crisis (including development aid). for example, an additional €15 million has been allocated to erasmus+. however, i strongly opposed the decision to internalise the chauffeur service of the parliament, as it is nothing more or less than the dismissal of the current staff, albeit very competent and professional. in fact, in addition to the additional cost this will entail (50% more), there is also the question of the current drivers: those in strasbourg, for example, often did so in addition to their retirement. in addition, 80% of former drivers will not be recruited because of a competition deemed too tough.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft general budget of the european union for 2017, for the obvious reason that i do not support the policies implemented by the european union. this budget is firmly focused on the crisis linked to the influx of migrants and the security aspect that follows. it also emphasises the growth objective, a way of taking the right role (in financing investment) while ordering states to tighten their belts. as regards migrants, it follows the adopted amending budgets for 2015 and 2016: after €10.5 billion in 2015 and 2016, €5.2 billion for 2017 is allocated to the migration crisis. on the growth side, the project welcomes the implementation of the juncker plan, which has not resulted in the necessary funds being mobilised in 2017 to meet the target of 240 billion in private investment by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the adoption of several amendments to the draft budget for 2017 submitted by the council which were rejected by the budg committee on 28 and 29 september. this project is firmly focused on the migration crisis and the growth objective. on this last point, the eu is playing the right role, that of the investor, while at the same time suffocating national budgets. on the first point, the eu goes further and provides for the possibility of redistributing appropriations between headings (made possible by the flexibility instruments) in favour of expenditure to help migrants. in total, france's planned contribution is expected to amount to eur 18.5 billion for 2017. and a european tax is already being considered.
in writing. ‒ parliament wishes to negotiate the eu budget for 2017 in close connection with the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. as part of its strategy to raise the ceilings for the mff, it proposes to provide a share of these additional funds as soon as the next year's budget is examined. parliament calls for an increase of €4.1 billion in commitment appropriations and an extension of €2 billion in payment appropriations, which would strengthen budget lines in many areas: youth, growth and jobs; research, innovation and interconnection in europe; support for key programmes such as erasmus+; security and migration; support for development cooperation programmes; emergency support for the dairy sector. i am voting in favour of this text, which represents an ambitious negotiating position for parliament, both for the 2017 budget and for the review of the mff 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the budget is directed towards managing the migration crisis and its corollary, the security component. the redeployment of funds for the integration of migrants reinforces the programmes for citizenship or against poverty that are now increasingly attributed to them, to the detriment of european citizens. at the same time, the plan continues to advocate austerity for member states' budgets and to promote the juncker plan, which has not produced any tangible results.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the adoption of several amendments to the draft budget for 2017 submitted by the council which were rejected by the budg committee on 28 and 29 september. this project is firmly focused on the migration crisis and the growth objective. on the latter point, the eu is playing the right role, that of the investor, while at the same time suffocating national budgets. on the first point, the eu goes further and provides for the possibility of redistributing appropriations between headings (made possible by the flexibility instruments) in favour of expenditure to help migrants. in total, france's planned contribution is expected to amount to eur 18.5 billion for 2017. and a european tax is already being considered.
in writing. ‒ this project is firmly focused on the crisis of the migrant influx and the security aspect that follows. it also emphasises the objective of growth, a way of taking the right role (in financing the necessary investments) while ordering states to tighten their belts. worse, it redistributes appropriations between headings (made possible by the flexibility instruments or contingency margins) to expenditure to help migrants. the margin available under the ceiling of heading 2 (concerning the cap, etc.) is thus reduced as a matter of urgency to finance heading 3. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2017 budget of the european union. this budget will amount to eur 162.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 138 billion in payment appropriations. i particularly welcome the €1.5 billion allocated to youth employment and the €15 million increase in the erasmus budget. the additional €1.8 billion, notably to increase the budgets and staff allocated to frontex, is also a significant step forward in the current context of the need for external border control. however, it will be necessary to wait until the conciliation phase with the council is completed before the final budget is adopted.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the adoption of several amendments to the draft budget for 2017 submitted by the council which were rejected by the committee on budgets on 28 and 29 september. it claims to be aimed at growth (through a satisfactory implementation of the juncker plan, which has not brought anything and leads to the mobilisation of the funds needed in 2017 to achieve the target of 240 billion in private investment by the end of the year), but also on a resolutely immigrationist aspect (welcoming country) and security (safe continent). at the same time, the commission is promoting fiscal consolidation of national budgets, and thus austerity, the macroeconomic results of which are more than questionable. so i am generally against it.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the 2017 budget is an important moment for the european parliament. the context is clear: political priorities are increasing (security, migration, employment, youth, investment), but the eu council wanted to propose reductions in many areas. it is understandable that some member states, which are experiencing budgetary difficulties often due to failing national public policies, would like to reduce the eu budget. but at the same time, these states and their citizens are increasingly demanding more efficiency at european level. we must therefore be consistent, and that is why i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the eu for 2017, which revised upwards, as far as possible, the proposals made by the council. for example, we decided to increase the youth employment initiative to €1.5 billion in commitment appropriations, to release an additional €600 million in commitment appropriations for the agricultural sector to support farmers affected by the dairy crisis, and to counter the adverse effects of the russian embargo. a europe that acts and protects is also, and above all, a europe that knows how to prioritise its spending.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary debate is an important moment in the evaluation of european policies. the 2017 meeting is an opportunity to recall the council's promise to review the multiannual financial framework and to review funding to meet the challenges facing the union. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has included the reception of refugees and their integration and the ecological challenge among these. this report is part of the dialogue with the council which, as usual, is calling for arbitrary budget cuts in programmes such as erasmus+ and cosme, which are among the most representative of what the european union should be. the same applies to cohesion policies, which are supposed to restore regional balances, but which are increasingly subject to austerity policies, and i am thinking in particular of the structural funds such as the esi or life, which are seriously threatened by the council's cuts. the question is not therefore to approve the final budget as a whole but to ensure that the council stops distorting european policies to conform to what i shall call national egoisms. i therefore abstained on this report pending the final outcome of the negotiations before i can make a final decision.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the council's position on the draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2017. commitment appropriations are set at eur 161.8 billion and payment appropriations at eur 136.8 billion, compared with eur 156.4 billion and eur 133.8 billion respectively in the council's draft budget. this report highlights what are called 'new challenges', including the migration crisis, coyly referred to as the 'refugee challenge'. this goes hand in hand with a demand for respect for the 'fundamental rights' of migrants and a mindless budgeting of their integration in times of economic crisis. finally, a further europeanisation of the asylum system is proposed. the european parliament has a very expansionist budget, which is intended to finance the immigration whims of the meps, but also the forced federalisation of the main features of sovereignty, such as defence or asylum. their financing is ensured by a further increase in the amounts and not by a redeployment of appropriations or an effort made on the administrative expenditure of certain institutions whose usefulness is more than doubtful. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 budget is the first instalment of a revised framework. the draft budget put forward by the commission can only be successful if the revision of the multiannual financial framework is approved. we must now turn to the council, which unfortunately is struggling to provide a comprehensive answer to the budgetary problems. in these times of crisis, there is therefore a need to coordinate the positions of the european parliament and the council. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote against this text because it is a very expansionist european budget, aimed at financing the pro-immigration whims of the euro-globalist meps but also the federalisation of important features of sovereignty such as defence or the right of asylum. moreover, this financing would be ensured by a further increase in the amounts and not by a redeployment of appropriations or an effort made on the administrative expenditure of certain institutions whose usefulness is more than doubtful, which would weigh on the finances of france and its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the parliament's position in its negotiations with the council on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. it would be ridiculous, if not scandalous, for parliament to seek to increase the commitment appropriations it sets at eur 161.8 billion and the payment appropriations it sets at eur 136.8 billion, while at the same time the member states are being asked to tighten their belts. these increases have no other function than to manage the marsh of crises that the european union itself has created (youth unemployment, the migrant crisis, the gradual annihilation of our agricultural industries, etc.). the migration crisis, caused by the eu's irresponsible policies, is thus receiving the lion's share of the budget with an increase in appropriations under heading 3, guaranteed until the end of the programming period in 2020: it should be recalled that after €10.5 billion in 2015 and 2016, the draft budget for 2017 provides for an additional €5.2 billion. we look forward to the explanations from our respective governments justifying the drastic cuts in other priority sectors such as employment.
in writing. ‒ this report, which advocates a substantial increase in expenditure, due in particular to the reception of migrants, also proposes to finance it by increasing the financial contributions of the member states, which are already too high in my view, without at any time considering the possibility of making savings on operating costs. it also refers to the strengthening of the eu's role in the area of asylum and defence, which i consider to be the prerogative of the member states. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ the draft budget calls for the amounts that the council recommended to be reduced to be reinstated in order to preserve sufficient budgetary room for manoeuvre in the event of a crisis. with eur 161.8 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 136.8 billion in payment appropriations, this draft budget aims in particular to increase the funds for the horizon 2020 programme and the youth employment initiative. we certainly approve the additional €600 million to help the agricultural sector, which is threatened by the fall in the price of raw materials and the russian embargo imposed by the european union. on the other hand, we strongly oppose the increase in funds to finance the reception of illegal migrants in the member states of the european union. at a time when the peoples of europe are suffering from mass unemployment and precariousness, it is astonishing to see the european union give priority to the comfort of illegal migrants. this proposal shows how disconnected the technocrats in brussels are from the daily lives of our fellow citizens. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted its position on the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017. we have rejected all the reductions proposed by the member states. this draft budget represents eur 162.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 138 billion in payments. it is an ambitious budget that takes account of the many crises we are facing today. the new european border and coast guard agency now has funding of €299.2 million, double the amount previously allocated to frontex. an emergency support package of €600 million will be put in place to counter the effects of the dairy crisis and the effects of the russian embargo. this is an important support for our farmers. this report has enabled me to point out that the seat of the european parliament is in strasbourg and must remain so. i also voted against the internalisation of the chauffeur service, which is a considerable expense. we will now enter into negotiations with the council so that the 2017 budget can be formally adopted. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to adopt the position of the european parliament on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. before entering the budgetary conciliation phase with the council of ministers, parliament wanted to vote in favour of an ambitious budget of €160.7 billion in commitment appropriations and €136.8 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of €7.9 billion over the european commission's proposal, including an additional €600 million to stabilise agricultural markets, particularly dairy markets. the main objectives of this political budget are agriculture, i.e. youth and employment, but also security and the management of the migration crisis. i believe that the european budget must be able to meet the challenges and high expectations of the present day, and i supported the european parliament's position on the general budget for the union.
in writing. i have approved the european parliament's position on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, which increases, inter alia, expenditure in the fields of culture, communication, citizenship and youth. i also support the increase in the budget initially proposed by the european commission which will strengthen the role of agencies with security and home affairs tasks such as europol, eurojust and the european asylum support office. however, i reiterated my opposition to the internalisation of the chauffeur service in parliament which will cost an extra €3.7 million per year compared to the current system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2017 general budget of the eu. it proposes to renew the main existing funds and to increase resources for several areas which are in particular need of them. it proposes, in particular, to increase the budget for the erasmus and marie curie programmes, to increase the appropriations for agriculture to counter the effects of the dairy crisis, and to increase the amounts to deal with the migration challenges in the union. that's a very good thing. however, on the budget of the parliament and the administration, i voted against the internalisation of drivers, because it represents an unjustified additional cost to the budget of the european union without any real added value: this is unacceptable!
in writing. the eu budget 2017 addresses the challenges facing the european union in the areas of migration, youth access to employment and foreign policy. it emphasises growth, youth and innovation in continuity with previous budgets, the financial reinforcement of the horizon 2020, erasmus + or connecting europe facility programmes. the development projects carried out by the union in third countries must also be supported more actively. the aim is to strike the necessary balance between investment and budgetary rigor. the implementation of the investment plan for europe (efsi) is one of the challenges of this parliamentary term.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the amounts that the council had planned to reduce by several billion to be reinstated on the grounds that the margins left in the council's draft budget would be insufficient to deal with crises or major issues such as the migration crisis or cop21. the text refers to 'new challenges' and calls the migration crisis the 'refugee challenge' and calls for increased funding. it welcomed the agreement with turkey on migrants. the same is true of the proposal to europeanise the asylum system even further, whereas this prerogative should be the sole responsibility of the member states. this is an expansionary budget to finance immigration and forced federalisation. their financing is ensured by a further increase in the amounts and not by a redeployment of appropriations or an effort made on the administrative expenditure of certain institutions of dubious utility. of course, i voted against this budget.
in writing. - i voted against it. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. ‒ for years i have voted against the eu budget, which funds policies that i do not support. this year, the wrongful action against strasbourg is 'internalisation of the chauffeur service', allegedly for security reasons. i am opposed to this internalisation. firstly, because, decided by the bureau, it goes against the will of this parliament, which had asked in an april 2016 report that execution be postponed in the absence of further information. compliment he never got. secondly, because in fact it is not open to drivers in strasbourg, as their representatives have informed us, even though they are in conflict with their employer without this having in any way affected the services they provide to us. you condemn them cynically to unemployment. finally, this internalisation will be very costly with a more than uncertain outcome. we have benefited from the expertise of these people for years. many are retired, often from the police and gendarmerie. i'm not sure your new recruits from brussels will offer the same security guarantees. especially if they're from molenbeek.
in writing. the european union is facing unprecedented challenges: to be able to act effectively, it needs a budget that is truly up to the task. youth unemployment is now at unprecedented levels, so we need more resources if the youth employment initiative is to be able to really reverse the trend. this 2017 budget should be put in perspective with the next revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. that is why i supported this report and more specifically three priorities that the socialists and democrats want to see strengthened: growth and employment (in particular by restoring cuts in the budgets of the connecting europe facility and the horizon 2020 programme), asylum and immigration (increasing budgets for eurocop, eurojust, easo, and restoring cuts in development cooperation programmes), and agriculture (in particular with emergency support for the dairy sector).
in writing. - i think we have a proposal that's going in the right direction. in this particularly violent period of successive crises, it is imperative to have the financial means to respond. i have therefore decided to support the european parliament's position in favour of a budget of eur 162.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 138 billion in payments. two areas are important to mobilise: agriculture, for which parliament has called for an increase of €600 million to counter the effects of the dairy crisis and the effects of the russian embargo on the dairy sector; security and migration, where we approved the commission's proposal to release €1.8 billion in addition to the amounts initially planned for 2017. the level of funding for migration-related expenditure now stands at €5.2 billion in total in 2017. finally, i am pleased that meps have also increased the budget of the european agencies which have been particularly requested since the start of the migration crisis, such as europol, eurojust and the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general budget of the european union for 2017. i particularly welcome the provisions to increase expenditure in the cultural field. in the 2017 financial year, the budgets for the media and culture sub-programmes were increased to support the promotion of cultural and creative works. i voted against the amendments which would have led to the internalisation of the chauffeur service in the european parliament, a measure which is unnecessary and costly for the taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft budget. the committee on budgets has voted to reject all the reductions proposed by the council in the draft eu budget for 2017. parliament has turned this text, which was more like an accounting tool following the council's reading than a political act par excellence, into a political text that takes account of the developments in our union and the realities experienced by our fellow citizens. by cancelling the proposed cuts and proposing commitments on security, employment and agriculture, parliament is demonstrating its ability to respond to the concerns of european citizens. i also voted against the amendment on the single seat to ensure that parliament's seat remains in strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it highlights the migrant crisis and calls for more financial resources to deal with it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the geier-tarand report on the general budget of the eu. the report calls for the amounts which the council had planned to reduce to be reinstated on the grounds that the margins left in the council's draft budget would be insufficient to deal with crises or major challenges (migration crisis, cop21, etc.). the commitment appropriations are set at eur 161.8 billion and the payment appropriations at eur 136.8 billion, compared with eur 156.4 billion and eur 133.8 billion respectively in the council's draft budget. this report highlights what are called 'new challenges', including the migration crisis, coyly referred to as the 'refugee challenge'. this goes hand in hand with a demand for the "basic rights" of migrants, and a mindless budgeting in times of economic crisis. finally, an ever more thoroughgoing europeanisation of the asylum system is proposed, whereas this prerogative should be the sole responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. after voting on the amendments to the draft budget for 2017, the budg committee voted on the resolution setting out parliament's position in the negotiations with the council, which will start on 8 november. it will launch the three-week conciliation period with the aim of reaching agreement on the budget and its signing before december. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all modes of transport, including the carrier's own transport. this is a very expansionist european budget aimed at financing the reception and integration of migrants, but also the federalist whims of the eurocratic elites. the financing of these is of course ensured by a further increase in the amounts and not by a redistribution of appropriations or an effort on the administrative expenditure of certain institutions or structures. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the draft budget seems to be insufficient in view of the challenges facing the european union. the expenditure is increasingly directed towards increased commitments in areas outside the competence of the european union, such as asylum law and common defence. the budget also reaffirms the desire to encourage migration and a forced move towards federalism.
in writing. ‒ the parliament is co-legislator, with the member states, of the eu budget. the european parliament's position is therefore a strategic moment in the elaboration of the major budgetary choices and in the european commission's action strategies. in this respect, the 2017 budget was drawn up in close connection with the resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, on which it is based. the european parliament maintains its realistic budgetary ambition. it also recalled that the union's missions require a concrete commitment in terms of appropriations and, in this context, budget lines were reinforced for three priorities, which i share: youth, growth and employment: for the youth employment initiative; to compensate for the cuts in research and transport programmes which had been transferred to the juncker plan; and for key programmes such as cosme, progress and erasmus +; migration, asylum and security: increased budgets for eu agencies; compensation for cuts in cooperation and development budgets; agriculture: with 600 million in emergency support for the dairy sector. i voted in favour of this balanced report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the draft eu budget for 2017 is broadly in line with the proposal made by the european commission and criticises the additional cuts proposed by the council. i regret that parliament has no ambition of its own to get the eu out of the morass of budgetary austerity, because the commission's proposal is notoriously inadequate in view of the social and ecological emergencies facing the eu; it does not even allow the eu to honour its commitments, particularly in the area of structural funds and climate finance. payment appropriations would thus be down by 7% in 2017. yet the eu has still not finished paying the bills for the 2007-2013 programming of the structural funds! these arrears will still not be settled by the end of 2016. and as payment appropriations continue to be under-calibrated, further delays are being made in implementing the 2014-2020 programmes to the detriment of all sectors concerned by european funding. i am voting against this resolution which confirms the parliament's disregard for the needs of the people.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. after voting on the amendments to the draft budget for 2017, the budg committee voted on the resolution setting out parliament's position in the negotiations with the council, which will start on 8 november. it will launch the three-week conciliation period with the aim of reaching agreement on the budget and its signing before december. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all modes of transport, including the carrier's own transport. this is a very expansionist european budget aimed at financing the reception and integration of migrants, but also the federalist whims of the eurocratic elites. the financing of these is of course ensured by a further increase in the amounts and not by a redistribution of appropriations or an effort on the administrative expenditure of certain institutions or structures. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this text aims at an unreasonable increase in the european budget. all the criticisms that have been made of the draft budget are also entirely valid. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2017 budget of the european union. this budget will amount to eur 162.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 138 billion in payment appropriations. i particularly welcome the €1.5 billion allocated to youth employment, but also the €15 million increase in the erasmus budget. the additional €1.8 billion, notably to increase the budgets and staff allocated to frontex, is also a significant step forward in the current context of the need for external border control. however, it will be necessary to wait until the conciliation phase with the council is completed before the final budget is adopted.
in writing. ‒ this is a very expansionist european budget aimed at financing the euro-immigration whims of the meps but also the forced federalisation of the main features of sovereignty such as defence or asylum. their financing is ensured by a further increase in the amounts and not by a redeployment of appropriations or an effort made on the administrative expenditure of certain institutions whose usefulness is more than doubtful. once again, the french will be charged more for doing more for europe when they want less and want to take back democratic control of their destiny. i shall of course vote against this budget.
in writing. ‒ at the sitting on 26 october 2016, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal on the 2017 budget of the european union. in its proposal, parliament calls for a budget that responds to the many challenges facing the union, including addressing the refugee crisis, strengthening the means to boost employment and investment and supporting young people. in this context, i voted to reject the cuts proposed by the council and to increase the budget ceilings through the revision of the european union's multiannual financial framework (mff). the european parliament is therefore in favour of a budget of €160.7 billion for 2017. in this context, i would like to raise funds to strengthen the youth guarantee and the union's support for young people. finally, i voted for the restoration of the budgets of the connecting europe facility (which funds transport infrastructure projects) and horizon 2020 (which supports research projects) which were cut to finance the juncker plan. parliament now has to reach an agreement with the council and the s&d group; we must be vigilant in order to adopt a budget that is up to the challenges of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2017 budget, which rejects all the budget cuts proposed by the council, gives more room to respond to current challenges and maintains the priorities to be pursued. i supported this text because it provides for an adequate level of funding for dealing with the refugee crisis, both in its internal and external dimension. the union will have the means to tackle the root causes of this crisis by cancelling the cuts planned by the council in neighbourhood, development cooperation and humanitarian aid. it is important to underline that this 2017 budget provides for an increase in the amounts allocated to agencies with security-related tasks such as europol and eurojust. this budget enables the union to continue its efforts to promote employment and competitiveness by increasing funding for the horizon 2020 programmes, the investment fund, the cosme programme for smes, erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative. the budget also addresses the agricultural crisis and proposes to mobilise an additional eur 600 million to help farmers, particularly those affected by the russian embargo.
in writing. ‒ combating youth unemployment, welcoming migrants, supporting research, helping to tackle the milk crisis - these are the european priorities for 2017. europe must therefore devote sufficient resources to respond to them. the european parliament's draft eu budget for 2017 is consistent in that it specifically provides for an increase in programmes addressing these issues. it is also ambitious, as it provides for a €1.5 billion contribution to the youth unemployment programme to respond to the social emergency. finally, it is responsible because, through the accompanying resolution, it establishes a conditional link between the revision of the multiannual financial framework of the european union 2014-2020 and the 2017 budget. the framework adopted in 2013 is no longer in line with current realities and challenges. it needs to be revised urgently so that the 2017 budget and the subsequent ones will allow europe to act. the message is therefore clear: this budget cannot be adopted without a revision of the mff. the council must quickly come up with a proposal on the revision of the mff to start the discussion. the ball is in the court of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates a substantial increase in expenditure, due in particular to the reception of migrants, and furthermore proposes to finance it by increasing the financial contributions of the member states, which are already too high in my view, without examining the possibility of making savings on operating costs. it also refers to the strengthening of the eu's role in the area of asylum and defence, which i consider to be the prerogative of the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this resolution by 446 votes to 181, which again shows parliament's determination to bring the union's political objectives and its means into line. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the chronic investment deficit, youth unemployment, the agricultural crisis, the reception of migrants, climate change, the establishment of european borders: these are the challenges that must be addressed as european priorities.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. the text calls for more financial resources to be made available to the eu by increasing the ceilings of the mff, in particular to deal with the challenges of migration and terrorism, and thus by increasing the contributions of the states. it focuses on youth mobility through the free train ticket for 18-year-olds of young europeans, an age group regularly targeted by pro-european propaganda. the report also calls for an increase in the eu's own resources and therefore for a european tax. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework marks the end of a cycle and should be an opportunity to put an end to two forms of hypocrisy. the first concerns the special instruments and the differences in perception between parliament and the council, which runs the risk of widening the gap between commitments and payment appropriations. the second concerns the various budgetary satellites which violate the principle of budgetary unity and at the same time create a blind spot for parliamentary control. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which represents an opportunity to make the budget both more legible and more sincere.
in writing. ‒ if money is the lifeblood of war, the eu has understood this well, since it is seeking, through this mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, to provide itself with more financial resources, which are obviously intended to increase its political prerogatives. i therefore voted against this resolution, which also opens the door to a european tax. for the europeists, the logic is supported by ideology, since the aim is to increase the ceilings of the mff to deal with the challenges of migration and terrorism, problems which the eu has greatly contributed to aggravating, if not creating. instead of constantly asking for additional contributions, it is time for the european institutions to start redeploying the unnecessary funds; they are not afraid to demand this of the member states by imposing ever more austerity on them while at the same time requiring them to contribute ever more to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ this mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) calls for an increase in the eu's financial resources, in particular to finance the reception of illegal migrants in the member states. at a time when the peoples of europe are suffering from mass unemployment and a decline in their purchasing power, it is truly scandalous to see the european union give priority to welcoming these illegal migrants rather than to the fate of our fellow citizens. we are also strongly opposed to the creation of a european tax to help finance the functioning of the brussels bureaucracy. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. this mid-term review was a commitment of the council and i therefore call on the member states to respect this commitment. i support the broad lines of the commission's proposal, which provides flexibility and additional means made necessary by the new challenges facing the european union. i would stress the importance of the additional €6.3 billion proposed until 2020, which will be devoted to growth and jobs, security and external border control, and the european fund for sustainable development. these are fundamental areas for european citizens, on which the union must act.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the european commission's proposal for a mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. the multiannual financial framework provides the framework for the union's resources and expenditure over a period of seven years. the european commission's proposal aims to increase the flexibility of this framework and to remove certain restrictions in order to allow the reuse of previously unused margins. it also proposes the creation of an eu crisis reserve to finance crisis responses, including migration, agriculture and humanitarian crises. if these proposals are positive, it seems to me essential that the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework be raised in order to finance the priorities of the union, which has to face a whole series of crises, while financing the common agricultural policy, infrastructure and research policies and cohesion policies. in view of all this, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff). i welcome the european commission's proposal to create an eu crisis reserve to finance responses to crises, including migration, agriculture and humanitarian crises. in addition, it is very important that the commission provides the budgetary authority with all relevant information to take into account the budgetary implications for the current multiannual financial framework of the uk referendum of 23 june 2016 and, eventually, the uk's withdrawal from the european union.
in writing. ‒ the debates on the revision of the european union's multiannual financial framework follow one another and are similar. more and more expenditure, financed if possible by a european tax. austerity is good for others, while every year the court of auditors struggles to give its full approval to the commission's use of taxpayers' money, and even criticises certain expensive and dubious policies. in july, the debate took place after some colleagues had asked for it to be postponed, given the unprecedented situation created by the victory of brexit. we don't know much more, but we're still talking. but there is something new in this crucial proposal to fight against populism: a free 'interrail pass' for young europeans on their 18th birthday. the existence of such an advantage would undoubtedly have been decisive in the british referendum! suppose the eurostar is not delayed by the presence of migrants on the tracks! your contempt for the people is such that you think you can fight with a hook the growing aversion your policies arouse among their victims. no wonder more and more of them want to run away.
in writing. ‒ this text seeks to increase the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework and thus to increase the contributions of the member states. it also encourages the mobility of young europeans under 18 years of age by offering free train tickets, which is motivated by european propaganda. finally, given the eu's objectives of increasing resources, there is every reason to believe that we are moving towards the creation of a european tax. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff). this proposal for a revision of the mff is part of the european parliament's desire to make the budget more flexible. to this end, the provisions on the simplification of budgetary rules and the establishment of a budgetary reserve were largely approved. this flexibility should make it possible to respond better to crises (agricultural, humanitarian or migration) and to avoid the multiplication of funds outside the budget. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. parliament also expressed its political will to increase the ceilings in certain areas: growth and employment, security and citizenship, economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it calls for more financial resources to be given to the eu by increasing the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework (mff), in particular to deal with the 'migration challenges' and terrorism (and thus by increasing the contributions of states).
in writing. ‒ in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, the european parliament had obtained a mid-term review. this is what the commission proposed when it presented the draft revision on 14 september. the text begins by recalling the shortcomings of the current mff in the face of the challenges that have emerged since its adoption. it recommended raising the ceilings for the headings which are in dire need of new liquidity: competitiveness for growth and employment, economic, social and territorial cohesion, security and citizenship and europe in the world. the report, which also proposes measures to avoid a payment crisis, stresses the importance of continuing to fund the youth employment initiative, but also of offering greater budgetary flexibility. in the face of the humanitarian catastrophe caused by the refugee crisis, the deep economic and social crisis in europe and the growing terrorist threat, this text calls for the eu to provide a budget that is up to the challenge. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ faced with a monetary union which deprives the monetary and exchange rate policy instruments, the fiscal union is still in its infancy. the european union's budget for seven years (the multiannual financial framework, mff) is limited to 1% of its gdp. in the last parliament it was even lowered below that figure! since then, the greek crisis, the launch of the juncker plan, the refugee crisis and the fight against youth unemployment have led to a stronger commitment by the union. this commitment cannot be expressed in financial artifices or "off-the-record" arrangements. in the resolution on the mff, the social democrats succeeded in getting the european parliament's own-initiative report on this issue to remain firm: it is imperative to create eu own resources to respond to the payments crisis. each year, the member states agree to open appropriations for commitments, but refuse to increase or even often reduce the appropriations for payments (cash). this is because the union budget is too dependent on national contributions. this resolution is clear on these points, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report finally opens the debate, promised in 2014 during the european elections, on a revision of the european budgetary framework for the period 2014-2020, which had been adopted in 2013. this budgetary framework is marked by austerity, since it has eliminated 50 billion appropriations. meanwhile, the eu population has increased by 10 million inhabitants compared to the previous programming! the report repeats its demands for a revision of the 2014-2020 framework, in the same terms as parliament has been saying since 2013... in vain. but it has no consequences for the commission and the council. it welcomed the commission's decision to propose an amended financial framework regulation. the commission is proposing only redeployments and no increase in the budgetary ceilings, whereas parliament considered them too low. and the report calls, in a totally hypocritical way, for the 'revised framework' finally achieved to be incorporated in the 2017 budget. but at the same time it supports the commission's 2017 budget proposal which does not incorporate this 'revised framework'. i vote against this nonsense which endorses emptiness and submission.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for more financial resources to be made available to the eu by increasing the ceilings of the mff, in particular to deal with the 'challenges' of migration and terrorism (and thus by increasing the contributions of states). the idea of an open approach is also mentioned in relation to the increase in the eu's own resources and thus the idea of a european tax. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to increase the eu's financial capacity, which could potentially translate into an increase in the contribution of states to the eu budget. a european tax is even being considered. the text must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament, unlike the commission, is in favour of raising the ceilings, but it nevertheless supports the commission's proposals. increased flexibility to allow the reuse of previous margins and the creation of a crisis reserve to finance responses to different crises are two essential elements today.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for more and more resources for the eu and provides for the financing of very expensive propaganda projects, such as the free inter-rail pass for all 18-year-olds. it also calls for the creation of a european tax. i am of course opposed to all these deviations and i am voting against the guidelines of this mid-term review.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which follows the proposals of the european commission, because i wanted to send a clear message: the european union's long-term multiannual financial framework (mff) must be adaptable and resilient to crises. as in the budgetary approach for 2017, the revision of the mff must be done in the light of the emerging priorities for european public action. clearly, the current financial resources at european level are not sufficient and new mechanisms need to be put in place, such as a permanent financial reserve that could be mobilised in case of crisis (migration, humanitarian, agricultural...). the european commission's desire to simplify the mobilisation and use of the various financial instruments is also to be welcomed, and this is therefore part of an ambitious revision of the general financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution calling for a reconciliation of the union's political objectives and its means. faced with the chronic investment deficit, youth unemployment, the migration crisis and the climate emergency, the eu budget must provide an operational response to all these challenges. the multiannual financial framework is now obsolete because of the multiple crises affecting the european union. it will therefore have to be revised at the same time as the 2017 eu budget is adopted. this is the meaning of this resolution, which gives parliament a mandate to obtain from the council the flexibility proposed by the european commission, the increase in ceilings and additional funds for a number of priority programmes. parliament called for the negotiations to include the next financial perspective, in order to put an end to the structural shortage created by the growing imbalance between the weakness of own resources and national contributions. the message from parliament is therefore clear: the member states must now take a stand for a budget that finally meets our needs!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out parliament's priorities in the context of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework for 2017-2020. the text stresses that the european union must update its long-term financial framework in order to better withstand unforeseen crises and respond to new priorities that have emerged in recent years. it is crucial that the union budget is more flexible in order to respond more quickly and effectively to current challenges such as terrorism, internal security, the migration crisis, the agricultural crisis and high unemployment. the resolution welcomes the fact that the commission has incorporated in its draft review of the cfp the parliament's proposal to create a permanent reserve in the european budget which could be mobilised in the event of a crisis. finally, i supported this text because it calls for the revision of the mff to be used as an opportunity to make commitments for the period after 2020, such as a reform of the union's own resources system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report granting aid from the globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of 800 workers made redundant by three companies in the petrochemical sector in estonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for eur 1 131 358 in aid from the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to help the dismissed employees of eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as. however, i regret that the aid is being paid out in conjunction with the redundancies, whereas it could have been of great value in helping the company to restructure. it is urgent to act and to understand that our companies are the victims of the lack of structural reforms necessary to adapt them to the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the three estonian petrochemical companies nitrofert, eesti energia and viru keemia and their 1 500 workers made redundant. these redundancies were caused in particular by the competition which these companies face from asian companies, but also by the fall in oil prices and the increase in natural gas prices. estonia is heavily dependent on exports of goods and services (almost 80% of national gdp in 2015 compared to 43.5% for the eu-28). it would be a joke, if we were not talking about a dramatic deindustrialisation, to find that even the gurus of globalisation and totalitarian free trade recognise the need for this 'adjustment fund', a true symbol of the social and economic harmony of the eu's trade policy.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 1.13 million to facilitate the reintegration into employment of the 1 500 estonian workers made redundant by companies specialising in the petrochemical industry. these companies have been destabilised both by the fall in oil prices and by chinese competition. while we welcome the mobilisation of the emff in favour of estonian redundant workers, we do not conceal the european union's responsibility for the deindustrialisation and mass unemployment suffered by the peoples of europe. by increasing free trade agreements and tariff concessions with countries that practice social and environmental dumping, the european union is exacerbating the unfair international competition that weighs on our companies. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to help member states experiencing a reduction in activities and employees in a particular professional sector. in this report, the mobilisation of the fund is requested for egf petroleum. i supported this report, considering that the eu must promote the transition of its economy towards sectors that generate growth and jobs by supporting workers who are made redundant.
in writing. the european commission's proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to enable estonia to receive financial contributions from the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the petroleum and chemical production sector. this is the first application to mobilise the egf by estonia, which has brought together two economic sectors, namely the chemical industry and refining, in a single application in order to limit the administrative burden. since estonia has complied with the conditions for granting financial contributions from the egf and the redundancies are due to the recent turbulence in the world oil market and competition from third regions with cheap gas, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i support this initiative to help hundreds of workers made redundant by petrochemical companies to re-enter the labour market. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr victor negrescu, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs. the fund will provide eur 1 131 358 for the 1 550 redundant employees. this amount will be used to finance training, counselling and support services to help these redundant workers return to work. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 1 550 workers made redundant in the economic sectors of coking, refining and the chemical industry. the fund was set up to help those who are affected by some of the negative consequences of globalisation, for example by funding new training courses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concerns aid from the globalisation adjustment fund to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of 800 workers made redundant by three companies in the petrochemical sector.
in writing. ‒ mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following the request of estonia for egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following estonia's request for ee/petroleum and chemicals. the fund should help redundant workers in this company to re-enter the labour market. the gef aims to mask the consequences of eu trade and monetary policies and to relieve large companies of their responsibilities without requiring any compensation. however, this aid is useful for the reintegration of workers, who should not have to suffer the free trade whims of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ this is the first case of the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) allocated to estonia. it is also the first egf to be allocated to the shale gas sector! several production sites have been forced to close due to the fall in global oil and gas prices. the state is responsible for terminating the contract of these workers. in its unbridled drive for independence from russia, estonia has over-invested in shale gas, ignoring expert reports demonstrating the poor cost-benefit ratio of europe's few deposits, not to mention the real threats to public health and the environment of this practice (fracking). the report is satisfied with a new distribution of public money without any question. if the training to be given to the workers made redundant is necessary, it would also be possible to envisage training to encourage conversion to green jobs. russian-speaking estonians do not have access to citizenship and the report pretends to ignore it. 63% of estonian redundancies are considered 'non-eu citizens' i am voting against this discriminatory and immoral report.
in writing. ‒ this is the globalisation adjustment fund to help reintegrate 800 workers made redundant by three petrochemical companies into the labour market. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the support provided by the globalisation adjustment fund is useful. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund requested following the redundancies at petroleum and chemicals in estonia. the european globalisation adjustment fund shall support employees whose redundancies are due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, to the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or to a new global financial and economic crisis. in the present case, the amount of the egf mobilised is eur 1 331 358 for 1 550 eligible beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ once again, the european globalisation adjustment fund is used in the short term to prevent workers who are affected by the eu's globalisation policy from immediately finding themselves in poverty. i regret that no real change has been made to european policy, but i am voting in favour of this aid which benefits workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in international trade, such as relocations or business closures. i voted for this fund to be used to help the 1 550 former employees who were made redundant by an estonian chemical company.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive aims to harmonise the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the accessibility requirements for public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications which must be 'visible, usable, robust and understandable', in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it also lays down the rules under which member states must ensure that websites, irrespective of the device used to access them, and mobile applications of public sector bodies comply with accessibility requirements (for older people and persons with disabilities). the improvement of the single market would be a very good reason to vote against, but the attention the text pays to the elderly and disabled justifies abstention.
in writing. ‒ this is a directive on which my opinion is mixed. the focus on the elderly and disabled, for whom the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications should be optimized, is certainly a step in the right direction, but the text as a whole works towards strengthening the single market, which can only be done at the expense of french workers. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. while i welcome the intention to make public sector websites more accessible, particularly for people with disabilities and the elderly, who are often victims of generational gaps, we should be clear about the european commission's intentions. for some time now, the commission has been tackling the issue of accessibility, which had never seemed to be one of its priorities, as a trojan horse for ever greater integration with the expansion of the internal market and the digital single market. i condemn this political recovery of an issue which touches on the concrete problems faced by people with disabilities or the elderly.
in writing. ‒ the improvement of the single market is a very good reason to vote against, but the attention paid to the elderly and disabled in the text would be more likely to motivate the choice of abstention. there is no vote because the text was at second reading.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to improve the accessibility of public bodies' websites for people with disabilities and older people, and follows the commission's proposal for a european directive. the text lays down minimum conditions for the accessibility of the websites of administrations, public hospitals, police services and courts, in order to facilitate internet browsing and online procedures, such as tax declaration. member states will have to appoint an authority to ensure the monitoring and proper application of these rules. citizens will also be able to report a problem with access to websites or request the content of information that is not available. considering that access to information, public bodies and online services can significantly improve the lives of disabled and elderly people, and all european citizens, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported this text on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. as public bodies increasingly use websites to fulfil their public service mission, it is essential to ensure that these platforms are accessible to all citizens, including older people and people with disabilities. by harmonising legislation on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications, we are ensuring full access for all european citizens to public bodies' internet platforms, allowing public bodies to benefit from a more competitive market and restructuring the market so that economic operators can grow.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive aims to harmonise the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the accessibility requirements for the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. the latter must be 'perceptible, usable, robust and understandable' in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. the text also lays down the rules under which member states must ensure that, whatever the device used to access them, the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies comply with accessibility requirements (for older people and persons with disabilities). although this text is a further justification for the much-criticised single market, its focus on the elderly or disabled made me prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ abstention from voting: technical text. the improvement of the single market is a very good reason to vote against, but the attention paid to the elderly and disabled in the text would be the reason for abstaining.
in writing. ‒ this text, whose sincere commitment to the protection of plants cannot be criticised, implies a challenge to the globalisation to which i am a party. however, a worthy cause does not always have the most appropriate means at its disposal. while there is clearly a need for better control of the agencies, the commission is at the same time strengthening its prerogatives. it is therefore the responsibility of the commission to draw up a list of harmful organisms and to arrange for the disposal of contaminated plants. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague dita charanzoza on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. the directive requires member states to adopt rules on the accessibility requirements, in particular for disabled persons, of content available on the internet and mobile applications. i welcome this initiative, which is part of the european strategy for disabled people. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications aims to introduce binding accessibility criteria at union level, in order to make the content of these websites accessible to all users and in particular to disabled and elderly people. the epp succeeded in imposing several points during the negotiation, which made it possible to obtain a text combining accessibility rights and reasonable requirements.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive aims to harmonise the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the accessibility requirements for the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies, in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it also lays down the rules under which member states must ensure that websites, irrespective of the device used to access them, and mobile applications of public sector bodies comply with accessibility requirements (for older people and persons with disabilities). despite our consistent opposition to the single market, the special attention paid to the elderly and disabled would have led us to abstain, but the text passed second reading without a vote.
in writing. ‒ digital is a great way to impose the harmonisation of the single market on member states by introducing common rules. however, the fact that it encourages easy access to websites cannot be seen as a negative.
in writing. ‒ this directive specifies the implementation of accessibility on all public sector websites. accessibility is governed by technical rules of the w3c (world wide web consortium) and the wai (web accessibility initiative) to allow access to web content for people with disabilities (deaf, blind, motor disabilities) and the elderly (vision impairment, etc.). it is essential to promote the accessibility of the web for as many people as possible. this is part of the principles i stand for with net neutrality and the protection of data of users of services on the internet. this is a step in the right direction. however, this report (as always) is placed in the context of the establishment of the digital single market: the standardisation of accessibility rules in all eu countries to be able to appeal, potentially, to all eu agencies. under the guise of improving access to websites for people with disabilities, this is actually about increasing competition and pressure on member states. the process is unfair. i voted against this text at first reading, i am still opposed to it and i am voting against it because it is as incomprehensible as the texts in question.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive aims to harmonise the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the accessibility requirements for the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it also lays down the rules under which member states must ensure that websites, irrespective of the device used to access them, and mobile applications of public sector bodies comply with accessibility requirements (for older people and persons with disabilities). despite our consistent opposition to the single market, the special attention paid to the elderly and disabled would have led us to abstain, but the text passed second reading without a vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive aims to harmonise the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the accessibility requirements for public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications which must be 'visible, usable, robust and understandable', in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. this directive also lays down the rules under which member states must ensure that websites, irrespective of the device used to access them, and mobile applications of public sector bodies comply with accessibility requirements (for older people and persons with disabilities). the concern of these fragile audiences for the text would have tempered our will to oppose the text (adoption without a vote).
in writing. ‒ improving the single market and extending it to all sectors of the economy should not be an end in itself. i note a desire to make certain services more accessible to older people, which is a positive thing. no vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report was on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. this was a text at second reading for which no rejection amendments were tabled. the text was therefore adopted without a vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive aims to harmonise the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the accessibility requirements for public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications which must be 'visible, usable, robust and understandable', in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. the disabled are hypocritically used to defend the internal market and european integration. this text was adopted without a vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. the aim of this directive is to introduce binding criteria at eu level to make the content of websites more accessible, particularly to people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to harmonise the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the requirements for the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies which must be 'visible, usable, robust and understandable', in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it also lays down the rules under which member states must ensure that websites, irrespective of the device used to access them, and mobile applications of public sector bodies comply with accessibility requirements (for older people and persons with disabilities). this text is aimed at improving the single market, which i am against, but the attention it pays to the elderly and the disabled is the reason why i abstained.
in writing. - i was one of the first to sound the alarm about xyllela fastidiosa, the chestnut cynip or the olive fly. our farmers must be better protected against the entry of these pests which cause serious damage to their crops. in order to combat such health threats, i had consistently advocated a border protection system to better control the entry of plant pests into the european union. it's done now. the european union will finally apply reciprocal rules on health with its major trading partners! we were calling for a risk management-based import control system. this draft regulation will make it possible to put in place a genuine preventive strategy. a preliminary assessment will identify plants and plant products with a high risk and prohibit their import until a phytosanitary risk assessment has been carried out. this text will allow for better protection of plant health and, consequently, of our ecosystem and the biodiversity of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of this text is to respond to the risks to plant health caused by new pests and diseases imported from third countries. the criticism of globalisation and its effects on trade has thus been largely ignored. the text aims to modernise control instruments, both within the internal market (improved traceability) and in trade with third countries, while reinforcing a risk-based approach. to this end, the draft lays down rules for determining the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic animal or plant parasite harmful to plants, and the measures to reduce this risk to an acceptable level. the text increases controls on the entry and movement of new organisms into the internal market, but it also increases the commission's powers. it will be responsible for drawing up the list of harmful organisms and deciding on the eradication of affected plants, as it did this year with the olive trees affected by xylella fastidiosa in puglia. i abstained on the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of a common, transparent, sustainable and european regulatory framework to control and prevent the de-mining of non-indigenous pests. this european framework is necessary because we can no longer be reactive only, but we need to anticipate.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because, while the text as a whole increases controls on the entry and movement of new bodies into the internal market, it also increases the commission's power. it's a further attack on the sovereignty of france that i cannot condone.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain on the rejection amendment tabled by the alde group on the second reading of the draft legislative resolution on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants. the legislative proposal itself is based on a rather commendable intention to limit the risks posed to our plants by new pests or diseases imported from third countries. the aim is therefore to modernise the control instruments, in particular by improving traceability, which i support. however, i am concerned that the commission is using this precautionary principle for political recovery, in particular by increasing its powers in this area, sometimes to the detriment of our national farms. the commission, which is responsible for drawing up the list of harmful organisms, will thus be able to decide on the eradication of the plants affected, as it did for olive trees affected by xylla fastidiosa in puglia, which is damaging the italian olive oil sector.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates the strengthening of the union's competence in defining pests and plants to be eradicated where necessary, whereas i believe that this should remain the competence of the member states. on the other hand, it contains an interesting critique of the effects of globalisation, particularly on trade. i abstained on the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to protect plants from harmful organisms, especially those imported from third countries. the text calls for the modernisation of control instruments, particularly in terms of traceability, both within the internal market and in trade with third countries. to this end, the draft resolution lays down the rules for determining the phytosanitary risk posed by any pathogenic species, strain or biotype or by any parasitic plant harmful to plants, and the measures to reduce this risk to an acceptable level. it is true that this report advocates stricter controls on the entry and movement of new organisms into the internal market. however, it also helps to strengthen the power of the european commission, which is now responsible for drawing up the list of these pests. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the reform of the european union's system for monitoring and combating health hazards that could affect plants. i was particularly active on this issue in the parliamentary committee, because it perfectly embodies the action of the european union to protect its citizens. this text seems to me all the more necessary as public opinion and we ourselves want to use less pesticides to protect our crops. the best way to protect crops is to avoid primary infection. in order to avoid primary infection, we need more active controls on the various movements of goods, which are increasing due to globalisation. i would rather have effective controls at the airport in antwerp or paris than have our farmers sitting idly by with infected crops, unable to treat them because we will not have the product to do so and because research is not going fast enough. we can see this with xylella, a plague that affects my constituency! with this legislation, a case like xyllela can be avoided in the future. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported this text, the general objective of which is to address the increased risks facing the european crop and varietal production sector arising from the emergence of new pests and diseases. the text also provides for the introduction of a phytosanitary certificate to be provided by professional operators of plant products, as well as by customers of postal services, the internet and passengers carrying risky varieties in their luggage. this allows trade-related plant health instruments to be modernised, with a focus on a risk-based approach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on protection measures against organisms harmful to plants. these measures seem to me to be quite appropriate and will allow for better protection of the health of plants, forests, natural areas and biodiversity. the report proposes, in particular, the establishment of harmonised surveillance and control of quarantine pests, plant health certificates to control and regulate the import of varieties at risk, and variety passports to manage the movements of these species within the eu. plant products presenting a high risk will be identified and imported will be prohibited until a phytosanitary risk assessment has been carried out. these traceability and risk control obligations will allow effective protection of the territories of the european union, which is paramount.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the succession of health accidents caused by the import of pests such as xyllela fastidiosa, it is important that measures are taken at european level to prevent the spread of this type of parasite which can cause the destruction of entire crops and damage an entire regional agricultural economy. this text is a real step forward for the protection of the union's territory and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. since 2013, the italian region of puglia has been facing a major ecological disaster. olive groves are being decimated by a bacterium for which there is no treatment, xylella fastidiosa, which has spread to corsica. this bacterium, previously unknown in europe, is believed to have originated in south america. the union must protect crop production and biodiversity. therefore, it should identify plants and plant products presenting a risk and prohibit their import until a phytosanitary risk assessment has been carried out. the monitoring system must be improved and a traceability requirement for all plant products must be introduced.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of this text is to respond to plant health risks caused by new pests and diseases from third countries. it aims to modernise control instruments, both within the internal market, such as improved traceability, but also in trade with third countries. it lays down the rules for determining the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic animal or plant parasite harmful to plants (or plant products) and the measures to reduce that risk to an acceptable level. the text strengthens controls on the entry and movement of new organisms into the internal market, but it also increases the commission's powers. the latter will be responsible for drawing up the list of harmful organisms. it will also be able to decide on the eradication of affected plants, as it did this year with the olive trees affected by xylella fastidiosa in puglia. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ abstention: this is the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading. the agri committee recommended that parliament approve the council's position at first reading without amendments. there is no final vote at second reading. the vote in plenary is on an amendment tabled by the alde group to reject it.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is definitely not a happy one, for plants as much as for humans. importing anything and everything from any country leads to the introduction of undesirable organisms (diseases, parasites, predatory plants, etc.) to which the local vegetation is vulnerable. it's a bit like the islamic state fighters in the flows of syrian and iraqi migrants we are being asked to take in. the text before us today aims to strengthen controls on imports of potentially harmful organisms and to improve protection measures (quarantines, phytosanitary certificates, etc.) in the light of the risk involved. however, it is the commission alone which is responsible for both the risk analysis and the decision. in the case of the xylella fastidiosa bacterium, which attacks olive trees in southern italy, i understood that her judgment was not entirely reliable, since she advocated the felling of centenary trees (and thus the ruin of their owners), whereas the bacterium in question did not represent a danger to the quality of the olives or to health. this further encouraged imports from outside europe. in terms of importing harmful organisms, whether terrorists or bacteria, experience shows that brussels is not to be trusted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a text to address the increased risks facing the european plant and crop production sector, arising from the emergence of new pests and diseases (caused by globalisation of trade and climate change). the regulation also provides for the modernisation of trade-related plant health instruments, whether within the eu (improved traceability in the internal market) or from third countries, with a focus on a risk-based approach. these new measures will apply to invasive alien species, whether parasitic or not, on the basis of a list.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anthea mcintyre on protection measures against organisms harmful to plants. these rules are designed to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the entry of harmful organisms. to this end, the text provides for the modernisation and improvement of the traceability of plant protection products from third countries. it also requires that import decisions be governed by the precautionary principle in order to avoid the risk of contamination or spread of native pests. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. it aims to take into account the increased health risks posed by the emergence of new pests and diseases resulting from globalisation and climate change, as well as the risk associated with imports from third countries.
in writing. - i abstained. it is true that this is a text which increases controls on products imported from third countries which are potentially contaminated with organisms harmful to plants. however, it leaves the commission alone to analyse and decide on the list of such organisms and the possibilities of quarantine.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on protection measures against organisms harmful to plants. the aim of this text is to respond to the risks to plant health caused by harmful organisms from third countries. on the positive side, it should be stressed that this text calls globalisation and its excesses into question. it also called for more controls, both within the internal market (in particular on traceability requirements) and in trade with third countries. this is done by reinforcing a risk-based approach. the main problem with this text is that it leaves the commission with the task of analysing and taking decisions. in short, it will be responsible for drawing up the list of organisms harmful to plants, for establishing the various quarantine possibilities and for arbitrarily deciding what measures to take. as a recent example, the radical and unilateral decision taken by the commission on the xylella fastidiosa problem in puglia is based on total interference, coupled with a precautionary principle which is detrimental to italy and beneficial to a third country (tunisia).
in writing. ‒ the general objective of this text is to address the risks to the health of plants. it is threatened by new pests and diseases from third countries. the criticism of globalisation and its effects on trade and on the issue of climate change is therefore a foregone conclusion. the text aims to modernise the control instruments, both within the internal market (improved traceability) and in trade with third countries. to this end, the draft resolution lays down the rules for determining the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of a plant pathogen, animal or plant parasite harmful to plants and the measures to reduce this risk to an acceptable level. however, this project also increases the commission's power. it will be responsible for drawing up the list of harmful organisms and may even decide on the eradication of affected plants. there is no final vote on second reading, but i abstained on the rejection amendment tabled by the alde group.
in writing. ‒ the recent outbreaks of xyllela fastidiosa and olive fly have shown that there are serious shortcomings in the current sanitary controls and that european agriculture is not sufficiently protected against the introduction of new pests from third countries. it was therefore urgent and imperative that the union take ambitious measures to protect against organisms harmful to plants. this european regulation represents a real step forward for the protection of the territory of the european union, particularly in the fight against the emergence of new organisms. i welcome it all the more as it will also make it possible to have a comprehensive framework for a preventive, graduated and risk-based approach. i support this text because it will ensure that european farmers are no longer victims of insufficient protection at our borders.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the idea, which is initially interesting, of limiting the phytosanitary risks linked to the globalisation of agricultural trade does not hide the commission's intention of assuming additional powers. it could impose radical standards and measures on all member states, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ globalisation of trade and climate change are promoting the introduction and spread within the eu of new organisms harmful to particularly dangerous plants. the report aims to take measures to promote plant protection in this context. in terms of control, the relationship remains with the 'reasonable control' solutions (prevention, crop rotation, no automatic pesticides) that date back 30 years. but it strengthens controls on the import of plants or plant products from third countries, through phytosanitary certificates. specific provisions have also been added concerning the introduction of wood packaging material into the union and its movement within and outside the union. finally, i regret that gmos are not included in the list of harmful organisms, since they have the main characteristics of harmful organisms: organisms which are not present on european territory (gmos are not naturally present) and which may present risks to plants (contamination of other plants by gmos). i am, however, voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of this text is to address the risks to the health of plants. it is threatened by new pests and diseases from third countries. the criticism of globalisation and its effects on trade and on the issue of climate change is therefore a foregone conclusion. the text aims to modernise the control instruments, both within the internal market (improved traceability) and in trade with third countries. to this end, the draft resolution lays down the rules for determining the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of a plant pathogen, animal or plant parasite harmful to plants and the measures to reduce this risk to an acceptable level. however, this project also increases the commission's power. it will be responsible for drawing up the list of harmful organisms and may even decide on the eradication of affected plants. there is no final vote on second reading but i abstained on the rejection amendment by the alde group.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this rejection amendment concerning an interesting text, which nevertheless gives too much credit to the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to deal with the dangerous consequences of the emergence of new pests and diseases for the plant sector. the text provides for the introduction of a phytosanitary certificate for operators importing plant products into the european territory. the text also provides for the possibility of suspending imports of a species if it is found not to comply with the requirements and criteria laid down.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to respond to plant health risks caused by new pests and diseases from third countries. he is therefore critical of globalisation and its effects on trade. the text aims to modernise the control instruments, both within the internal market (improved traceability) and in trade with third countries. this is done by reinforcing a risk-based approach. to this end, this draft legislative resolution lays down the rules for determining the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of a pathogenic agent, animal or plant parasite harmful to plants (or plant products), and the measures to reduce this risk to an acceptable level. the major defect of this text is that it increases the commission's power. it will thus be responsible for drawing up the list of harmful organisms. it will also be able to decide on the eradication of affected plants, as it did this year with the olive trees affected by xylella fastidiosa in puglia. that's why i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on protection measures against organisms harmful to plants. the main objective of this regulation is to address the growing risks in crop production in the european union, due in particular to the increase in diseases from foreign countries and climate change. this will include modernising trade-related plant health instruments to improve the traceability of organisms and products on the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the report by anthea mcintyre comes at a time of a succession of health accidents, highlighting the urgency of strengthening protection against plant pests. the commission has already submitted a report on this issue to the previous parliament, but this central text of the health package has remained blocked in the council. the organisation of health checks is seriously flawed and does not sufficiently protect the eu territory against the introduction of new pests from third countries. in the previous parliament we had already expressed our regret that the commission's legislative proposal did not envisage any change to the existing system. the amendments of the socialists in favour of a new preventive control strategy based on a risk management approach were not accepted, however, as the right wing did not support them. the commission and the council seem to have become aware of the serious shortcomings of the current legislation. we are pleased that things are moving forward. farmers can no longer be the victims of insufficient protection at the frontiers.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of this text is to respond to plant health risks caused by new pests and diseases from third countries. the criticism of globalisation and its effects on trade and on the issue of climate change is therefore a foregone conclusion. the text aims to modernise the control instruments, both within the internal market (improved traceability) and in trade with third countries. this is done by reinforcing a risk-based approach. the legislative procedure for adopting the text is now completed. today's vote concerns a rejection amendment on which i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need to improve the union's overall capacity to generate growth, create and maintain quality jobs and, therefore, to combat high unemployment rates by putting in place a growth-friendly regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is a process of coordinating the economic policies of the eu member states. the purpose of this report is to take stock of the implementation of the recommendations for 2016. despite a re-design of the format last year (more precise and fewer recommendations ahead of national finance laws), the mindset remains the same. it is a question of imposing the famous structural reforms, i.e. the liberalisation of markets, by incentives and eventually by pressure. in this context, it is worth recalling the context in which the eu considered, for the first time, suspending the disbursement of structural funds to spain and portugal for non-compliance with such recommendations. the report accumulates a large amount of commonplace on macroeconomic uncertainties, the need for targeted investment, job creation, etc., which shows how difficult it is for parliament to formulate clear criticisms, such as the german trade surplus. there are some positive elements to be noted on the issues of inequality or state competence. both the principle of the semester and its supranational logic and the content of the recommendations justify voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ by voting against this text, i wanted to oppose the extreme liberalism in certain areas (internal market, competition), the refusal to denounce germany's attitude, or to underline the role of the euro in macroeconomic imbalances. there is no question of supporting the supranational logic of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the implementation of the european semester, which is nothing more than a trap for the european institutions to take control of the economic policies of the member states. the modest words 'european semester' actually hide the brussels' condemnation of the famous 'structural reforms', including austerity policies towards countries that do not follow the ultra-liberal dictates: note that the eu has already considered suspending the payment of structural funds to spain and portugal for non-compliance with its benevolent recommendations. the report, in line with this ideology, welcomes 'mass immigration, a real 'reserve army of capitalism' and, according to the rapporteur, supposed to counteract the effects of population ageing (although one wonders why the introduction of genuine natalist policies is not considered instead). of course, the report omits the reality: nothing about the german trade surplus plunging the other countries of the euro zone or the macroeconomic imbalances created by this single currency.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to take stock of the implementation of the recommendations of the european semester in each member state. the european semester is a process of coordination of the economic policies of the member states, the purpose of which is to impose on national governments the implementation of structural reforms. these include market liberalisation, pension reform and labour market reform. the eu's means of pressure to force member states that are unwilling to apply the commission's ultra-liberal potion can range from financial sanctions to the suspension of structural funds. as such, spain and portugal are currently undergoing a procedure to suspend funds for them, for excessive budget deficits. we denounce both the principle of the european semester and its supranational logic and the content of the recommendations formulated in it. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the implementation of the priorities for economic policy coordination between member states for the year 2016. in this context, the report recognises the delicate situation facing the european union, namely a large investment deficit, as well as the need to increase domestic demand and correct macroeconomic imbalances. the report stresses the need to base economic policy coordination on three fundamental pillars: firstly, support for investment in innovation, growth and job creation, secondly, the development of socially balanced structural reforms, and finally, the development of responsible public finances. considering that it is necessary to limit the number of recommendations for member states and to base mainly the recommendations of the european semester on the social and macroeconomic aspects, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination and the implementation of priorities for 2016. faced with a slowing global economy, stagnating investment in europe and high unemployment, member states need to coordinate their economic policies in line with the recommendations of the european semester. it is also essential that the european parliament calls on the member states to implement economic policies adapted to the development of the internal market. these must be focused on promoting innovation and growth, while meeting the criteria of both social justice and economic efficiency.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to take stock of the european semester and its economic recommendations to the member states. despite a re-design of its format last year, with more specific, fewer and more upstream recommendations to national finance laws, the principle remains the same. the aim is to impose structural reforms and market liberalisation. for the record, the eu had considered, for the first time, suspending the disbursement of structural funds to spain and portugal for non-compliance with such recommendations. the report makes a number of points on macroeconomic uncertainties, the need for targeted investment and job creation. despite positive elements relating to inequalities or the competence of states in social matters, the text praises the contribution of immigration to compensate for the ageing of the population. i voted against this semester and its supranational and ultra-liberal logic (internal market, competition) and the refusal to denounce germany's attitude or the role of the euro in macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is the exercise of supervising the national budgets and, consequently, the policies, especially economic and social, of the states which have adopted the euro as their currency. the member states must avoid excessive budgetary imbalances, or else face sanctions. that is why i voted against this report, which often contains a series of trivia in its analysis but does not call into question this absurd exercise. in fact, i fully agree with only two things in this report: - the condemnation of the absurd sanction envisaged (this is a first) against spain and portugal (to cut off the european regional funds they receive), when these two countries have been engaged for years in austerity policies, particularly painful for their peoples, dictated by brussels; - the amendments which stress the destabilising effects of the single currency on the economies of the euro area and denounce the surpluses accumulated by germany at the expense of its european partners. they assume that german imbalances should also be punished, in accordance with european texts. the future of germany is not in the preservation of its social security system and the prosperity of its pensioners. i hope the next election will prove it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it provides an assessment of the implementation in the member states of the economic measures for growth recommended by the commission in the context of the european semester. the report rightly stresses that monetary policy alone cannot be sufficient to stimulate growth unless accompanied by sustainable investment and structural reforms. it is also a message to françois hollande and the socialists, who have failed to reform france. our country must complete its reforms, clean up its public finances and simplify the labour market.
in writing. ‒ although the report has been modified in form previously, it continues to try to impose its structural reforms on the member states by all means. without a critical approach to the substance, the whole is incomplete. until the cases of excessive liberalism, the destabilising role of the euro or the attitude of germany are studied in depth, all will be mere talk. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr alfred sant, on the implementation of the european semester for 2016. the european semester allows the european commission to issue recommendations and guidance to member states to promote growth and jobs. the report supports the commission's approach, but notes that gdp and unemployment figures are disappointing in relation to the forecasts and calls for the european semester to be streamlined by addressing the social and macroeconomic objectives set for the next 18 months as a priority. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which presents the european parliament's opinion on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. in addition to the commission's priorities, which i support, namely boosting investment, pursuing structural reforms and implementing responsible fiscal policies, i agreed with the philosophy of the various elements in this report, knowing that no prescriptive taxation model was included and that a call for public investment at the expense of private investment was avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not denounce, in form or in substance, the european semester process which, under the guise of coordination, participates in the liberal shackle imposed by brussels on national economies, with the results we know.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the report does not denounce, in form or substance, the european semester process which, under the guise of coordination, participates in the liberal shackle imposed by brussels on national economies, with the results we know. the ultra-liberalism in certain areas (internal market, competition) and the refusal to denounce the attitude of germany or the role of the euro in macroeconomic imbalances must be denounced.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is a process of coordinating the economic policies of the eu member states. it results in country-specific recommendations, which are rarely followed by the states. the purpose of this report is to take stock of the implementation of the recommendations for 2016. the report is very descriptive, which shows how difficult it is for parliament to formulate a clear criticism, whereas our approach is transparent, both on the principle of the european semester and on the recommendations in question. we do indeed wish to denounce, among other things, ultraliberalism in certain areas (wild competition), and a contrario the domination of germany and the euro over our economies and their roles in macroeconomic imbalances. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text continues to offer the same ultra-liberal solutions to the ills of the european economy. alongside the structural reforms advocated, there is a tightening of the eu's policy, which suspends its aid to the countries of the south in situations of excessive macroeconomic imbalances. finally, the use of mass immigration is recognized as beneficial to compensate for the demographic deficit of european countries, something we strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ this report argues that all the economic problems facing the eu stem from the failure to implement the country-specific recommendations, i.e. the failure to meet deficit reduction commitments. the report does not, however, take the time to question the ecb's role in monetary policy or the unrealistic pursuit of the absurd objectives of the stability and growth pact. despite some positive recommendations on the importance of public investment or access to a minimum income, the essential liberal mantras are recited throughout the report. the rapporteur simply calls for 'sustainable structural reforms' and 'the removal of obstacles to investment and the development of the internal market'. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is a process of coordinating the economic policies of the eu member states. it results in country-specific recommendations, which are rarely followed by the states. the purpose of this report is to take stock of the implementation of the recommendations for 2016. the report is very descriptive, which shows how difficult it is for parliament to formulate a clear criticism, whereas our approach is transparent, both on the principle of the european semester and on the recommendations in question. we want to denounce, among other things, ultra-liberalism in certain areas (wild competition) and, conversely, the dominance of germany and the euro over our economies and their roles in macroeconomic imbalances. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ despite a re-design of the format last year (more precise and fewer recommendations ahead of national finance laws), the spirit of the european semester remains the same. the aim is to impose the famous structural reforms, i.e. the liberalisation of markets, on the member states by means of incentives and, eventually, pressure. in this context, it should be recalled that the eu initiated, for the first time, a procedure for the suspension of the structural funds against spain and portugal for non-compliance with this type of recommendation. the report accumulates a large amount of common sense about macroeconomic uncertainties, the need for targeted investments, job creation, etc. there are some positive elements, particularly on the issues of inequality or some incidents in favour of state competence (for example in social matters). the whole is very often bland and descriptive. our approach is much more critical, both in terms of the principle of the semester and its supranational logic and in terms of the content of the recommendations. the european council in brussels in december 2000 called for the creation of a european monetary system (ems) and called for the creation of a european monetary institute (emi). i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is a tool for oppressing the people, forcing them to submit to austerity policies which have already proven their failure. i am naturally voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the 2016 priorities of the european semester. the report first notes that europe is still plagued by unemployment and a high deficit, which is particularly damaging to investment. this is why action is needed to allow growth to return to the european continent in a more sustainable way. the report therefore sets out ways of exploring such as tax coordination within the european union, which will make it easier to finance smes.
in writing. ‒ the text as a whole is very often bland and descriptive, a sign of the difficulty of the parliament in formulating clear criticisms, as for example in the case of the german trade surplus. i am much more critical, both of the principle of the semester and its supranational logic and of the content of the recommendations. the european council in brussels in december 2000 called for the creation of a european monetary system (ems) and called for the creation of a european monetary fund (emf). i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is part of an approach to harmonising the economic policies of the member states of the european union. the union can only be strong if its member states use common means to achieve common ambitions at european level: growth, jobs, security above all. in economic matters, the european semester was set up to allow each member state's budgetary and structural policies to be examined at european level and for the european commission to make recommendations for the next 12 to 18 months. this is not a supranational control, but indications that take into account the objectives of the european union (europe 2020 strategy) so that they can be incorporated into national public action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the implementation of the priorities set by the european commission in the framework of the european semester for the year 2016. the report highlights the fragility of the economic recovery in the member states in 2016, with particular reference to the worrying figures on unemployment, especially among young people. this text recognises the importance of coherence between the instruments of cohesion policy and the economic governance framework, with a view to supporting the recovery efforts needed to ensure compliance with the rules imposed by the european semester. the main objective of economic policy coordination is to ensure sustainable economic growth within the union. thus, while it is crucial that all member states take fiscal consolidation measures to ensure the sustainability and sustainability of their economic models, it is essential that they are accompanied by measures to promote investment, reduce inequalities and create jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report makes a number of findings that i share: the need to increase domestic demand in european markets, the urgency of tackling the challenge of structural unemployment, especially youth unemployment, the need for better use of eu funds to correct macroeconomic imbalances to a greater extent, the need for long-term investment in education, innovation and research and development. it also states that, under the present conditions, 'the objective of poverty reduction cannot be achieved'. this should have led our institution to question the logic of flexibilizing the labour market and of full liberalization which underlies the injunctions made to the member states in the context of the european semester. but it is not. the stability and growth pact remains the cornerstone of all the proposals in this text. the recommendations of the labour tax relief committee, which have proved ineffective, are praised. the full transposition of the liberalisations contained in the services directive is called for. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which recalls that industrial trans fats are the most dangerous nutrient for heart health and that they do not need to be added to processed foods. they should therefore be banned at eu level, as they have already been in denmark, austria, latvia and hungary. we call on the commission to come forward with a text as soon as possible, in order to save tens of thousands of lives a year.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids pose risks to human health, including increased risk of cardiovascular disease, gallstones, diabetes and certain cancers. to date, the european food safety authority recommends that the intake of trans fats be kept to a minimum. however, there is no european regulation on this matter. the resolution proposes the introduction of new european regulations on the content of trans fatty acids in food. this would be preceded by an impact assessment, which would be introduced within two years. my colleague from the national front, mireille d'ornano, was a co-author of this motion for a resolution: it is indeed imperative to limit the content of trans fatty acids in view of their deleterious effects, now proven, on human health. the enf group emphasised two other key points: the fact that naturally occurring trans fatty acids are harmless and that regulation of the content of trans fatty acids in food should take into account national specificities. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary for the commission to look at the introduction of a european legal limit on the content of trans fatty acids in all food. my decision is supported by studies conducted by efsa and the who which recommend as low a consumption as possible.
in writing. ‒ trans fats pose serious health risks to humans: increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease, gallstones, diabetes and some cancers. the resolution proposes the introduction of new european regulations on the content of trans fats in food, which would be introduced within two years. it is necessary to limit the content of trans fatty acids in view of their now established harmful effects on human health. i voted in favour of this resolution, which was co-written by my colleague from the front national and coordinator of the enl group, mireille d'ornano.
in writing. ‒ on the resolution aimed at creating a european regulation on the limitation of the content of trans fatty acids in food, i wanted to oppose it and support the alternative resolution tabled by the enl group. while everyone agrees that there are health risks from trans fats, particularly cardiovascular problems and obesity, the aim of the proposal is to bring the european regulatory framework closer to the us framework in the run-up to ttip. i would also stress that this problem must be tackled as a matter of priority by the member states, if only because of the national specificities of food, which is particularly true of france, since our gastronomy is recognised as an intangible cultural heritage by unesco. i am also concerned about the ambiguity which the text maintains between industrially produced trans fatty acids and naturally produced trans fatty acids: it would not be a matter of bringing a new reproach on our dairy industry, which is in particular difficulty at the moment.
in writing. ‒ this report emphasises the need for a genuine european regulation on the consumption of these trans fats, as the current recommendations have not brought about any significant improvement. since these substances may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, gallstones, diabetes and certain cancers, we must act. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to limit the content of trans fatty acids in food. the latter pose health risks, including cardiovascular disease, gallstones and diabetes. in addition, the report highlights the inadequacy of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of 25 october 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers, in particular as regards the immediate identification of the trans fatty acid content by reading the labelling. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to protect the population from the risks associated with the consumption of foods with trans fatty acid levels well above the maximum recommended standards.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids are types of unsaturated fatty acids naturally present in foods derived from ruminants (milk, meat, etc.), in certain plants and products of plant origin and artificially in partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. the trans fatty acids in these industrial oils help to extend shelf life. we cannot deny that the consumption of these products increases the risk of coronary heart disease, cardiovascular disease, obesity and type 2 diabetes. the resolution calls on the commission to take action to limit the consumption of trans fatty acids by imposing a legal limit on the trans fatty acid content of all foods. we must act on this, it is a matter of public health. however, we should not stigmatise trans fats which are naturally present in foods such as milk, meat and certain vegetables which do not present these health risks. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, we call on the european commission to limit the use of trans-fatty acids in processed foods. these unsaturated fats are used in the food industry and are present in high doses in products such as pastries, prepared dishes or fried foods. however, consumption of trans fats is associated with a risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes and alzheimer's disease, which cause almost 660 000 deaths in the union each year. we therefore call on the commission to set limits on the use of trans fats in industrial food products as soon as possible. it should be remembered that these limits do not apply to foods such as milk or meat which naturally contain such fats. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that these measures are intended to strengthen consumer protection and the health of european citizens.
in writing. natural trans fatty acids (tfa) are considered by the world health organisation to be unlikely to pose a health risk in contrast to industrially produced trans fatty acids, which are the subject of this resolution. i supported this resolution which stresses the need for action, both at national and union level, to significantly reduce the overall consumption of trans fats and points to the lack of consumer awareness of the negative health effects of agts. it is therefore essential that the european commission establishes, as soon as possible, a limit value for agt for all industrial food.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on trans fatty acids. these acids are hazardous to health when consumed in excessive quantities. it is therefore important that the commission should set a limit value for all processed foods, which we consume very widely. it is essential to protect european consumers. in this respect, it is important to distinguish between fatty acids naturally present in agricultural products such as meat and milk and unnatural fatty acids for which such legislation is necessary.
in writing. trans fatty acids (tfa) are a class of fats contained in industrially produced vegetable oils such as frying oil or certain margarines used in pastry. according to the european food safety authority, frequent consumption of these agts increases the risk of developing cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer' s disease, diabetes or certain types of cancer. some member states introduced, as early as 2003, a limitation on the maximum rate of agt of industrial origin. these measures have led to a reduction in the number of deaths from cardiovascular disease. the union must therefore extend this limitation to the european level. the union should also ensure better consumer information through systematic labelling of products containing agts.
in writing. ‒ trans fats increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, gallstones, diabetes and some cancers, among other things. the european food safety authority recommends that the intake of trans fats be kept to a minimum. however, there is no european regulation on this subject to date. the aim of this resolution is to limit the content of trans-fatty acids in food by means of european regulations. this would be preceded by an impact assessment, which would be introduced within two years. as co-author of this motion for a resolution, i naturally voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: very interesting contribution by mrs mireille d'ornano, coordinator of the enf group in the envi committee and co-author of this motion for a resolution. it is imperative to limit the content of trans fatty acids in view of their now established harmful effects on human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential to set a limit for trans fatty acids in foodstuffs produced industrially. these unsaturated fats, which are often found in large quantities in prepared meals and processed foods, are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. it is now clear that these fatty acids pose a risk to public health, that they are present in too large quantities in processed foods, and that current labelling measures have proved ineffective in reducing their consumption. their presence in food should be limited. however, there is no question of stigmatising agricultural products such as milk or meat, in which fatty acids are naturally present.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that we need to limit the amount of trans fats in our diets as much as possible, because of their scientifically recognised harmful effects on our health. the group to which i belong, the enf, has also stressed the absence of harmfulness of naturally occurring trans fatty acids and calls for national specificities to be taken into account in the regulation of the trans fatty acid content of food. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on trans fatty acids (tfa). agts are present in many industrial food products and if consumed in excess, they contribute to cardiovascular problems, diabetes, infertility and obesity. the text calls on the european commission to set a european limit for all foods containing trans fatty acids. i welcome this decision which is also part of a strengthening of social justice for consumers, as agts are generally present in the cheapest foods, with lower income people being more exposed. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to set a limit value for trans fatty acids for all processed foods, as is already done in countries such as denmark, austria and hungary. i voted against all the paragraphs and amendments which would have stigmatised agricultural production. their protection is guaranteed since the resolution confirms that the limit value would only apply to industrially produced trans fatty acids.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, co-authored by mireille d'ornano, because it aims to regulate the content of trans-fatty acids in food in the european union.
‒ consuming too much fatty acids is now associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer. however, the labelling measures currently in place are insufficient to prevent them. i therefore supported this resolution which calls on the commission to act to protect consumers by limiting the trans fatty acid content in processed food. as a member of the committee on agriculture, i believe that such measures should not apply to foods in which these fatty acids are naturally present, such as milk or meat.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on trans fatty acids. these pose health risks: increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease, gallstones, diabetes and certain cancers. some good market foods have trans fat levels well above the recommended maximum levels, in particular bakery products, industrial biscuits and similar products. the report highlights the shortcomings of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of 25 october 2011 on food information to consumers: it does not allow the immediate identification of the trans fatty acid content of a food by reading its labelling. the resolution proposes the introduction of new regulations on the content of trans fatty acids in food. this would be preceded by an impact assessment, which would be introduced within two years. the co-author of the resolution, mireille d'ornano, rightly emphasised that the regulation of the content of trans fats in foodstuffs must take into account national specificities (consumption habits, gastronomy, etc.). the enf group also emphasised that naturally occurring trans fatty acids are harmless.
in writing. ‒ my colleague mireille d'ornano, from the envi committee, was a co-author of this motion for a resolution. it is imperative to limit the content of trans fatty acids, given their now proven harmful effects on human health. our group stressed that naturally occurring trans fats are not harmful, that regulation of the content of trans fats in foodstuffs must take into account national specificities (consumption habits, gastronomy) and that incentive measures for agri-food businesses should not be neglected. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. the proposal aims to strengthen european legislation on the standards and identification of the content of trans fats in food, particularly in the agri-food industry, due to their harmfulness to human health. the enf group is co-author of the standards and insists that national dietary habits be taken into account when adapting the standards.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids (tfa) are unsaturated fatty acids found in dairy products and meat as well as in industrially produced vegetable oils. these agt are used by the food industry for their specific characteristics (consistency) and especially for their low production cost. they're found in fast food, prepared meals and basically all sorts of processed foods. according to the european food safety authority (efsa), increased consumption of these products increases cholesterol and triglycerides and is a risk factor for cancer. the resolution advocates limiting agt by introducing a % limit for each type of product. i am voting for this text, although i regret that the impact of industrial processes is not more strongly questioned in the food and health sector.
in writing. ‒ my colleague mireille d'ornano of the envi committee was a co-author of this motion for a resolution. it is imperative to limit the content of trans fatty acids in view of their now established harmful effects on human health. our group stressed that naturally occurring trans fats are not harmful, that regulation of the content of trans fats in foodstuffs must take into account national specificities (consumption habits, gastronomy) and that incentive measures for agri-food businesses should not be neglected. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights that despite the proven dangers of trans fatty acid consumption to human health, consumption persists among the lowest population groups, even though for the european population as a whole it remains below the who recommendations. some of the best-selling foods have trans fatty acid levels well above the recommended maximum levels (bakery, industrial biscuits). the report also highlights the lack of information for consumers. the resolution also calls for the introduction of new european regulations on the content of trans fats in food within two years. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights that despite the proven dangers of trans fatty acids consumption for human health, their consumption persists among the most modest population groups, even if, for the european population as a whole, it remains below the who recommendations (less than 1% per day). it is therefore important to try to reduce the consumption of these fatty acids and i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on trans fatty acids, the excessive consumption of which increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. these acids are naturally present in many foods (milk, meat, etc.) and are also used in industrial foodstuffs. it is therefore necessary to set a limit value for trans-fatty acids for those processed foods. this is one of the aims of this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to bring about european regulation on the content of trans fatty acids in food. the report highlights that despite the proven dangers of trans fatty acids to human health, their consumption persists among the lowest population groups, even though for the european population as a whole it remains below the who recommendations (less than 1% per day). some of the best-selling foods have trans fat levels well above the recommended maximum levels, in particular bakery products, industrial biscuits and similar products. in addition, the report highlights the shortcomings of regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 of 25 october 2011 on food information to consumers: it does not allow the immediate identification of the trans fatty acid content of a food by reading its labelling. the resolution also proposes the introduction of new european regulations on the content of trans-fatty acids in food. this would be preceded by an impact assessment, which would be introduced within two years. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution which allows progress to be made on the subject of industrial trans fatty acids (tfa). these unsaturated fatty acids are present in many food products and can pose a risk and facilitate the development of diseases, including coronary heart disease. it is also worth noting that the european union, which is held up as a model in food safety and standards, is only just beginning to reflect on the risks of agt. the united states and canada, with whom we have just ratified the ceta trade agreement, have already begun to ban agts or already consider them not to be risk-free. manufacturers must quickly find a replacement for these agts, which is not easy because it could change the texture and especially the taste of certain foods. in any case, the health of consumers comes first!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a limit of trans fatty acids in processed food. the intensive use of these trans fats in industrially produced foods increases the risk of developing serious health problems. the european union must act urgently because these industrially produced trans fats are a real danger to the health of european citizens, in particular by taking measures to correct the current ineffective labelling system.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids pose risks to human health, including increased risk of cardiovascular disease, gallstones, diabetes and certain cancers. the european food safety authority recommends that the consumption of trans fats be kept to a minimum. however, there is no european regulation on this subject to date. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to bring about european regulation on the content of trans fatty acids in food. the report highlights that despite the proven dangers of trans fatty acids consumption to human health, their consumption persists among the lowest population groups, even if for the european population as a whole it remains below the who recommendations. some of the best-selling foods have trans fats levels well above the recommended maximum levels. it is important to limit the content of trans fatty acids in view of their now known harmful effects on human health. the incentives for agri-food businesses are also important, and have proved to be effective. i voted for this text.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the court of auditors has raised the problem of trust. if the error rate is not an indication of fraud, inefficiency or waste, what does it reveal? the court states that this is a wrong estimate of the payments, because the amounts paid were not used in accordance with the rules. how is that possible? even if the errors are less important from one year to the next, it is still true that 5.5 billion euros are not strictly controlled and monitored. it's not nothing. if this is not a human problem or an accounting problem, then it is a functional and general architectural problem. of all the institutions, the court of auditors is the one which functions best, but it is clear that not all institutions can say the same. we must therefore rethink the general architecture and move away from an institutional and accounting scheme which no european citizen understands any more and which the institutions - and you give evidence of this - themselves have difficulty applying. the confidence of the people is inversely proportional to the opacity of our operating rules and the lack of transparency in them. subsidiarity, freedom and transparency should lead europe to move forward with its nations and around its nations, without seeking to impose everything and complicate everything with opaque rules. when things don't work or don't work anymore, it's not unusual to change them. now that is what the people will have to do.
author. mr president, commissioner, we are discussing children in the context of migration and i would like to return to the situation of unaccompanied children, that is to say, those who arrive or are alone on our european territory. in september 2013, parliament adopted a report on the situation of these unaccompanied minors. more than three years ago, as rapporteur, i proposed and called for the adoption of a real strategy, real measures and common minimum standards, which i stressed as necessary to protect these children properly. since then, almost nothing has been done. at that time there were 13 000 unaccompanied miners and we were already denouncing the urgency of the situation. today, 96,000 unaccompanied children have arrived in europe, and naturally, we have no more strategy and no more appropriate responses. do you realise, commissioner, that the images of these lonely and frightened children who are the victims of networks are contributing to the risk of collective disaster that threatens our europe? i would like to emphasize three points. firstly, commissioner, we need a comprehensive strategy for unaccompanied children. however, in the european agenda on migration, the word 'children' appears only once to indicate that a follow-up to the action plan is under way. i'm asking you, where are we with this follow-up? secondly, the relocation. i would like to appeal to the member states of the union which have committed themselves to relocating 160,000 refugees from italy and greece. we all know that this is clearly not the priority of the states, since today only 6,000 people have been relocated since last year. of these, only 75 unaccompanied minors were relocated. it's a shame! i don't even understand how that's possible. thirdly, there is dublin. the current revision of the dublin regulation cannot be ignored, and it is not an unfortunate revision in itself, but in the elements envisaged. your proposal on unaccompanied minors is the exact opposite of the clear case law of the court which prohibits the transport of children from one country to another. in conclusion, in the face of the courage of these children who have crossed a part of the planet, we respond with a kind of inability to welcome them properly. there are solutions. it is simply a matter of having the political will to live up to the values which our union normally upholds.
in writing. half of the 65.3 million uprooted people worldwide are children, either alone or with their families. these miners find themselves in highly vulnerable situations, facing the risks of psychological manipulation, physical or sexual violence, but also exploitation by criminal groups. the best interests of the child should always prevail over other considerations, such as immigration control. yet migrant and refugee children are not given the specific assistance and protection they need. the european union and its member states have a responsibility to develop appropriate policies to address this shortcoming, including by strengthening the coordination of efforts on the ground between civil society, national and european authorities. this includes more effective asylum procedures for children, the facilitation of family reunification procedures, the prohibition of administrative detention for minors, but also decent reception and integration conditions. it is also essential to designate a guardian for each unaccompanied minor. this humanitarian emergency can't wait. europe must stop turning a blind eye to the rights of these children, whose only crime is being born on another continent.
madam president, the offensive on mosul is underway. it is necessary. the islamic state must finally be destroyed. i want to salute our french soldiers who are sacrificing their lives in this fight against totalitarianism. i also think of the soldiers from other european countries, the americans, the russians who, despite the divisions, are all fighting for the same goal: the elimination of this islamic state. the bells are ringing again in several villages near mosul. for eastern christians, who have survived so many genocidal attempts by conquering islam, hope of return is being reborn, as it is being reborn for other communities. i think of the yazidi people, who have suffered these criminals denying all humanity to women, children and all those who oppose their sharia. the islamic territorial state will disappear, but this monster will mutate. other serious problems for the european union are about to arise. in syria, the free syrian army is already growing in numbers in a strange way as defections from the islamic state increase. so we have to stop distinguishing between isis and other islamic components. they are, in fact, the various facets of the same evil: islamic totalitarianism. the european union's supporters of the islamic state will, alas, return to sow death and desolation in our country. rest assured, the collapse of the islamic state is only the prelude to a global war of great intensity between the jihadists and all other civilizations. in these circumstances, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the voice of reason is cooperation between all civilizations.
the question is "blue cardboard". sir, i don't understand why you don't denounce about east aleppo what you denounce about mosul? it's exactly the same situation. ask the bishop of aleppo or the bishop of mosul. i know both of them, and they'll tell you exactly the same thing. why two weights, two measures? what you said is very good. why don't you say that about aleppo?
madam president, i also welcome the retreat of the islamic state. the liberation of mosul and the nineveh plain gives hope to the civilian populations who have suffered or fled the cruel yoke of the islamists. some, however, have a short memory. the atlanticist international coalitions are the main culprits of the chaos in the middle east, but skilled communicators are already explaining to us, hand on heart, that the western powers have the best intentions in the world and are using nice democratic bombs that bring about a singing tomorrows, unlike the evil russian bombs. are not those who are praising the coalition's bombing today the same people who are, through their politics, allowing the islamists to hold the people of eastern aleppo hostage; the same people who applauded the neoconservatives when they preached the crusade against saddam hussein, whose overthrow is ultimately the cause of the current disaster; the same ones who sympathize with qatar and saudi arabia; the same people who faint at the antics of the war-mongering bernard-henri lévy? i think the hypocrisy has to stop.
in writing. the offensive by iraqi forces, backed by the kurds, on the iraqi city of mosul began last monday. the offensive, if successful, would signal the end of the islamic state's expansion in iraq, culminating in the capture of the city of two million people on june 10, 2014. located in the nineveh plain, mosul is home to many ethnic and religious minorities, including the christian minority. the latter have been at the forefront of the persecution by the islamic state: from 1.5 million in 2003, the number of christians has risen to about 200,000 today. this massacre was called genocide by the european parliament on 4 february 2016. the battle for mosul will result in a major humanitarian crisis: 1.5 million refugees would be added to the 3.3 million iraqis displaced since 2014. in this context of emergency, i support the assistance effort of the european union, whose contribution has so far amounted to eur 134 million, including eur 50 million for the city of mosul. we cannot, however, endorse any interference by the european union in iraq's internal affairs, since it is western interventionism that led to the disintegration of that state following the us military operation in 2003.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am surprised at the sudden leniency shown by the high representative towards the man whom the european union called the last dictator of europe. the rope is a bit thick: lifting sanctions against approaching the western camp, but looking for an exit from the russian orbit. strangely enough, human rights are no longer on the agenda. the belarusian government, however, continues to exercise strict control over the media and is not ready to give up the death penalty. but geopolitical blackmail is above the so-called european values, which are also very fluctuating according to the interests of the extra-european powers. belarus, however, remains a pillar of european integration. this is demonstrated by the nuclear power plant projects with russia or the russian and belarusian airborne troops. my dear colleagues, let us try to build bridges and not walls against the great europe.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is turkey's day. mr juncker announced this morning that he would resume negotiations with turkey. i ask you, what is the point of this debate? as you all have noticed, it is almost 8.45 p.m. and we are putting the debate as far back as possible in order not to offend the good conscience of the eurocrats. what can i say about this debate? this week we have the in 't veld report, which confiscates sovereignty, democracy, our freedoms and public liberties. today we are made to cry with the turkish journalists, but finally wake up! do you want turkey in europe? do you want turkey to do the same to european journalists? tomorrow we will hear that it is resumed, that the debate continues, that we are opening the 18th chapter of 32. finally, a little cynicism or at least a little responsibility! i believe that what the people of europe want is a europe of nations and freedoms, a europe without mr erdoğan's muslim brotherhood. they want a free europe, a different europe, the europe of nations and freedoms.
madam president, democracy in turkey is in danger. the attempted military coup, which has been widely condemned in turkey and elsewhere, is being used as a pretext for a regression of the rule of law. the arrests of journalists, as well as those of magistrates, are a symbol of this. hundreds of media outlets have been shut down; 200 journalists were arrested, two-thirds of whom are still in prison; 2,300 media workers have lost their jobs, while police raids on newsrooms seem to be becoming a regular occurrence. among these journalists is indeed can dündar, our candidate for the sakharov prize. anyone who dares to criticize the turkish government's policies is threatened. dozens of people have been charged for using a mobile application, bylock, which is suspected of being used by fethullah gülen's supporters. however, turkish ministers are currently using this application. finally, the kurds are paying a heavy price once again. the arrest yesterday of the two co-mayors of diyarbakir is a symbol of this. sending them back to back is not the answer. if we do not want turkey to return to the darkest pages of its history, the european union cannot remain silent any longer, otherwise it will bear a heavy responsibility for the development of the situation.
madam president, beyond verbal condemnations, our european institutions must be firm and forceful towards the turkish authorities, whom the nobel prize winner, orhan pamuk, has said are instituting a reign of terror. it is necessary to take strong action to secure the release of journalists, judges and trade unionists and the restoration of the rights of elected officials. so let us stop this hypocrisy of turning turkey into a place of detention for refugees in exchange for billions and complicit silence. the european union's external action services must carry out observation missions and provide support to journalists, judges and trade unionists in prisons. finally, we must immediately stop any process of upgrading our trade relations and consider economic and trade sanctions until freedom is restored.
madam president, the situation of journalists and freedom of expression in turkey - which is not very bright, it must be said - has deteriorated sharply in recent months, particularly since the failed coup attempt of 15 july. it is clear, however, that the state of emergency, which was extended - as many have said - by 90 days last week, has blown all the locks. it has created a climate of fear and widespread self-censorship, as highlighted by reporters without borders, depriving the public of a free and diverse debate, at a time when it needs it most, to shape an opinion on the kurdish question, on the conflict in syria and its extremely complex players, on the influx of refugees, of course, and on relations with the european union. instead, the turks are fed hate speech against journalists who are guilty of simply doing their job and alleged supporters of mr. gülen, who is accused of fomenting the putsch in the judiciary, police, army and education. imprisonment becomes the rule for all who oppose. for all these reasons, madam president, i am in solidarity with the struggles of the turkish journalist can dündar, who has been nominated for the 2016 sakharov prize, and i sincerely hope that he will win it.
i have received eight motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 27 october 2016, at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on nuclear security and non-proliferation (2016/2936(rsp)).
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 27 october 2016 at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on discharge 2014:- report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council [com (2015) 0377 - c8-0201/2015 - 2015/2156 (dec) ] (a8-0271/2016),- report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 [com (2015) 0377 - c8-0247/2015 - 2015/2202 (dec) ] (com (2016) 0268-046)), report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, section ii european council and council [com (2015) 0377 - c8-0201/2015 - c8-0247 (dec) ] (a8-027224/2016), and report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 [com (2015) 0758-0246], on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 [2015] (com (2015) 0278-024),
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 27 october 2016 at 12 noon.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, st thomas aquinas wrote in his summa theologica that the best is the enemy of the good. i think that this is particularly true of the work of this institution. indeed, who can deny the positive and enriching nature of volunteer work? it is not just about serving society but also about personal development through the skills acquired, the contacts made and the satisfaction of giving of oneself. it is therefore a matter of great pride that over the past 20 years more than 100 000 young people have taken up the european voluntary service. still, i don't know whether to be worried or admired for your ability to put every good idea to work in the service of your political ideology. you want to use volunteering as a means of promoting european citizenship. but you forget that citizenship, if you please, is legally and essentially linked to nationality, which is a problem for you because it prevents you from building a european federal state and because having citizens who are rooted in their land, their nation and their traditions is all the more a limitation on your globalism. you praise the importance of volunteers in managing the refugee crisis. is it really up to civil society to manage the stalemate that you, the politicians, have created? by following jean-claude juncker in his idea of creating a european solidarity corps, you are showing no confidence in the citizens and you are admitting your total irresponsibility in managing a disaster that you have fostered; this is the whole point of the eu aid volunteers programme, launched by dg echo. you want to send european volunteers to humanitarian projects all over the world. that's very charitable, very good. but what about the homeless in europe? do you have a program to help our needy? i remind you that according to the 2014 report of the european observatory on homelessness, in france, the number of homeless people has increased by 44% in 11 years, from 80,000 to 150,000 people. these figures are no more impressive in the rest of the european union: 44% in the czech republic, 29% in sweden, 21% in germany, 17% in the netherlands and 16% in denmark. i ask you, therefore, do you also count on volunteers to help the poor of europe? the idea of civic service is a good one, but you should know that it already exists in several member states, where it can be effective and change the game, that is, as close as possible to the people it serves. for example, in france, in 2014, there were nearly 35,000 young people in the civil service; 50,000 volunteer firefighters are under 35 years old; 27 000 young people aged 11 to 18 are young sappers and are learning to rescue. what do these examples show? they show that young people want to be involved, but they want to be involved close to home, to improve the lives of their grandparents and to be of service to their neighbours. this is another of my concerns: i am afraid that, like what you are trying to do with erasmus+, which was your only success, you are perverting this good commitment of volunteering into a study of future workers seconded to precarious statutes and salaries and in the service of your large market. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will hear my message: yes to the recognition of the great work done by the volunteers, no to its political recovery to save the furniture of a house which you yourselves have set on fire. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs costa, i understand very well. i think that the commission has a duty to do something about this. most of the time, in this europe, as we do not use what has been done and we do not learn from it, it does not change much. i explained it to you and this is what i do not understand: you always break open doors by trying to answer questions with other questions. the problem is simple: we french - and this is where your europe is not working - are not seeing the same results as you keep telling us in the commission. that is why we will never agree with your ideologies.
madam president, economic change and globalisation have indeed significantly changed the labour market and young people have been the first victims of this. it is therefore necessary to make every effort to facilitate their social and occupational integration. training is, of course, one of the ways. a number of measures, both at national and european level, are aimed at this, but i believe that mobility is another way. the erasmus programme is of course to be welcomed and i believe that we must go further, particularly with regard to the mobility of apprentices. a pilot project under way can indeed foreshadow a new organisation of european learning which allows both mobility and the acquisition of new skills and languages. i think it is important in europe to allow this mobility so that the young people of our europe can speak different languages and acquire european-level skills.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, this is the first time in 54 years that the subject of employment and the cap has been directly addressed. we are in the midst of a paradox: the budget for the common agricultural policy represents almost 40% of the budget of the european union and employment is at the very beginning of our priorities, the first we have set within the institutions of the european union. for more than 50 years, the common agricultural policy has shaped agriculture by directing it towards the intensification of its production (s) towards international markets and the development of increasingly concentrated and specialised farms. these choices have been marked by a dramatic increase in labour productivity, which has had a considerable impact on agricultural employment. in 1957, in a europe of six, farmers accounted for 20% of the total workforce in the european union. today, they are only 4% in a union of 28. in the last ten years, we have lost a quarter of our farms. if we continue with this policy, we will not be able to attract young people in the years to come. the cap has also gradually lost its legitimacy over time. today it no longer meets the needs of farmers and is being challenged by all our european citizens. the elements which have long structured the common agricultural policy are no longer appropriate today, and the liberal choice applied to this policy since the 1990s has led us to a dead end. this model destroys many jobs in production and in the territories, especially in the most fragile. we must rethink the cap in depth, and it must remain a common policy for all european agriculture. we are facing several challenges today: the food challenge, the environmental and climate challenge and the territorial challenge. on the food challenge, the cap must give priority to ensuring food security for europe's 500 million citizens and giving everyone access to sufficient food in quantity and quality. the question of human health and the nutritional aspect must be at the heart of the future reform of the common agricultural policy. one in two europeans is overweight or obese. as for cancer, the new forms of the disease among young people in europe, young men and women, especially in rural areas, cannot leave us indifferent to the policies we must implement. the environmental and climate challenge and the productivity model show us every day their limits in terms of sustainability. above all, it is important to produce, but to produce better by managing more efficiently and better protecting natural resources and biodiversity, which can play a positive role for the climate through soils. this implies changes in our production methods, which will have to be adapted to each region and each ecosystem. we cannot forcefully grasp the territorial challenge. we need to re-territorialise agriculture. agriculture is an essential component of the development of rural and peri-urban areas. these areas also contain important resources for diversifying agricultural and forestry activities. we need to reinvest in short circuits, circular economies and organic farming. the answers to these challenges involve three specific responses: a main policy of aid for the settlement of young people; a policy of regulation of agricultural markets; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the european union.
madam president, i think that this report is well-intentioned but in reality it is useless. it's just a box of measurements. today, the cap is a disaster for european farmers. we often hear in our country that hell is paved with good intentions. this report is polluted by claims about the integration of migrants into the european labour market. it also contains claims on gender neutrality. in addition, the title has skewed the report from the outset, because relying on the cap to create jobs is totally paradoxical. it is in fact the cap that has destroyed a large proportion of agricultural jobs, particularly since 1992, and the macsharry reform, which has obviously had an impact on prices.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate mr andrieu very sincerely on his vision of the future of agricultural policy. i think this is essential for the future of the rural world in general, which is structured, as everyone knows, around agricultural activities. i also believe that it is essential to keep the jobs that go with it alive if we are to keep the agricultural world alive. i believe that the future cap must indeed give priority to employment over hectares and that the direction given in the report is very important. the expansion of farms is detrimental to employment. i would like to say that we need more neighbours and less land for farming in the future. i believe that this rural world today is part of the right balance between food, fighting global warming and maintaining a good environment. i think this report is absolutely right and i really hope that all members will support it.
in writing. i thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done. this report aims to develop jobs in rural areas, and it is a commendable project! however, it proposes a mid-term review of the current cap which is not relevant. we cannot afford to change the rules of the game halfway through today. if the goal is simplification, the best way to achieve it is stability. reforming now would be tantamount to mortgaging the substantive considerations which should be made when preparing the next cap. the report also proposes a number of questionable measures. it is turning the cap into a social aid policy, which is not its purpose. the cap must help to create and maintain jobs in the agricultural and agri-food sector. the proposals for reform in this report are not in line with the foundations of this policy. the report also takes a position on trade agreements which go beyond the subject. as things stand, i find it difficult to support this report, even though i am in favour of its draft. some of the ideas are interesting ideas that need to be explored further.
in writing. ‒ this is the second report, the discharge having been postponed at the first vote in april. once again the council refuses to cooperate with parliament, the budgetary discharge authority. this is a serious breach of the obligations laid down by the treaties, since the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions. once again, the council did not forward its activity report to parliament. as every year, the report takes up the idea of imposing a separation between the council and european council budgets in order to ensure more transparent financial management, a constraint which the council seems to want to avoid. the report calls on the council to provide parliament with accurate data on building projects and their costs. naturally, the report highlights the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes and calls on the council to participate in the eu transparency register, adopt an internal code of conduct within the institution and anti-corruption guidelines. in short, every pretext is used to emphasize the absence of parliamentary control over the council's budgetary activity. i therefore voted in favour of this report which calls for the discharge to be refused in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the discharge to be refused on the implementation of the general budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014, given the lack of cooperation with parliament on the provision of the documents necessary for the evaluation of the respective expenditure. the european council and the council must urgently take their responsibility towards european citizens by being more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this report because the council is once again refusing to cooperate with parliament, the budgetary discharge authority. this is a serious breach of the obligations laid down by the treaties, since the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions. once again, the council did not forward its activity report to parliament. as every year, the report attempts to impose a separation between the budgets of the council of the union and the european council in order to ensure more transparent financial management, a constraint which the council seems to want to avoid. the report calls on the council to provide parliament with accurate information on building projects and their costs. naturally, the report highlights the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes and calls on the council to participate in the eu transparency register, adopt an internal code of conduct within the institution and anti-corruption guidelines. how can the council still want to evade parliament's control over its budgetary activity in this way?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recommends refusing discharge to the european council and the council for the implementation of their 2014 budget. it is still incredible that the council continues to refuse to cooperate with parliament, which is, in one of the few democratic elements present in the european treaties, the budgetary discharge authority. the council refuses to forward its activity report but also opposes any transparency measure, such as the separation of the council and european council budgets. the council also maintains this opacity in the costs of its real estate projects, whistleblowers, internal codes of conduct and the fight against corruption. this shows the council's respect for the only democratically elected european institution.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on meps to refuse to vote on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget. this is the second time this year that a report has been drawn up on the discharge for the 2014 budget. it has now become a habit: the council refuses to cooperate with the european parliament, which is, according to the union's treaties, the budgetary discharge authority. by failing to provide a comprehensive activity report, it therefore breaks the basic rules for the functioning of a union in a state of uncertainty. more specifically, the report states that no exact data has ever been obtained on the cost of certain real estate projects. it also stressed the absence of rules on transparency or the fight against corruption and the separation of the council's and the european council's budgets. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ for the eighth consecutive year, the european parliament has decided to refuse discharge to the council and the european council, mainly because of the lack of cooperation with parliament, the discharge authority. only three of the 27 questions put by parliament are clearly answered in the documents provided by the council and the european council. in view of this repetitive and unnecessary situation, i believe that it is appropriate to consider various options for updating the rules on the discharge to the council, the budgetary authority, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i supported the conclusions of this report and voted in favour of refusing to grant discharge to the council.
in writing. in the interests of transparency in the management of public funds, i voted in favour of the report rejecting the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. as long as the european council and the council refuse to provide clear answers to each of the questions put by the european parliament on its management of public funds and to forward the requested documents, the european parliament must refuse to grant this discharge for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the 2014 budget to be refused. once again the council refuses to cooperate with parliament, which has the power to grant discharge. this is a serious breach of the obligations laid down by the treaties, since the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions. once again, the council did not forward its activity report to parliament. as every year, the report takes up the idea of imposing a separation between the council and european council budgets in order to ensure more transparent financial management, a constraint which the council seems to want to avoid. the report calls on the council to provide parliament with accurate data on building projects and their costs. the report naturally points out the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes and calls on the council to participate in the european union's transparency register, adopt an internal code of conduct within the institution and anti-corruption guidelines. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the 2014 budget to be refused. once again the council refuses to cooperate with parliament, the budgetary discharge authority. this is a serious breach of the obligations laid down by the treaties, since the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the council refused to cooperate with parliament by sending its activity report, which is a clear indication of non-compliance with the rules laid down by the treaties, since expenditure is traditionally subject to the control of parliament, the budgetary discharge authority. i support the proposal to separate the budgets of the two institutions for greater transparency and i join the collective effort to recall the parliament's role in monitoring the council's budgetary activity. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the general budget of the eu to the european council and the council. the vote was motivated by the council's lack of cooperation with the discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it deplores the lack of transparency in the implementation of the council's budget. it is scandalous that the council has refused to provide parliament with information on its accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2014 discharge to the european council and the council. this report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the 2014 budget to be refused. once again the council refuses to cooperate with parliament, which has the power to grant discharge. this is a serious breach of the obligations laid down by the treaties, since the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions. once again, the council did not forward its activity report to parliament. as every year, the report takes up the idea of imposing a separation between the council and european council budgets in order to ensure more transparent financial management, a constraint which the council seems to want to avoid. the report calls on the council to provide parliament with accurate data on building projects and their costs. the report naturally points out the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes and calls on the council to participate in the european union's transparency register, adopt an internal code of conduct within the institution and anti-corruption guidelines.
in writing. ‒ once again, the council refuses to cooperate with parliament, the budgetary discharge authority. this is a serious breach of the obligations laid down by the treaties, since the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions. once again, the council did not forward its activity report to parliament. the report calls on the council to provide parliament with accurate data on building projects and their costs. the report naturally points out the absence of rules on whistleblowers in the council's statutes and calls on the council to participate in the european union's transparency register, adopt an internal code of conduct within the institution and anti-corruption guidelines. the report calls for the discharge to be refused on the implementation of the 2014 budget and highlights the worrying lack of factual control by parliament over the council's budgetary activity. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the text refuses to vote on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget. the council refused to cooperate with parliament and to forward its activity report, so that discharge could not be given on the implementation of the budget. the report also proposes to clarify the financial management of the institutions, a wish we can only support.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to refuse to grant the european council and the council discharge in respect of the implementation of their 2014 budget. the council is in breach of several of its budgetary obligations and is not forwarding to parliament the reports necessary for parliament to exercise its budgetary control. this is not new, as parliament has already refused to give a discharge for the council's 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 budgets. so we don't see what this new refusal will change. as long as parliament does not block the budgetary procedure, as it is theoretically entitled to do, the council will continue to ignore its votes with the commission's complaisance. so, although it is symbolic, i am voting for this refusal of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends refusing discharge on the implementation of the 2014 budget. once again the council refuses to cooperate with parliament, which has the power to grant discharge. this is a serious breach of the obligations laid down in the treaties, since the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions. the council has not forwarded its activity report to parliament. as every year, the report takes up the idea of imposing a separation between the council and european council budgets in order to ensure more transparent financial management, a constraint which the council seems to want to avoid. the report calls on the council to provide parliament with accurate data on building projects and their costs. my vote is in favour (i.e. the refusal of discharge).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which refuses to grant discharge. i followed the opinion of the cont committee which unanimously decided to refuse discharge, in particular because of the council's lack of cooperation with the discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous decision of the committee on budgetary control, we have decided to refuse discharge because of the council's lack of cooperation with the discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. while the financial commitments are mainly from external contributors, the court notes a lack of seriousness in the follow-up of the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service, as the joint undertaking tends to continue to disregard any possible optimisation of its internal audit. the report nevertheless notes that the joint undertaking has received assurances from the relevant national authorities on the reliability and regularity of its operations. the joint undertaking is to be governed by the laws of the member states and the union, and is to be managed by the commission. while they aim to demonstrate that the national procedures provide reasonable assurance of the legality and regularity of the operations, the court found that there were no practical arrangements for ex post audits of the joint undertaking. this does not guarantee that its management is followed precisely. the commission has therefore issued reserves in its accounts for the fourth consecutive year. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as recommended by the committee on the substance in its second reading, in view of the receipt of the additional evidence to justify and close the accounts on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking has been very light-headed in its management, refusing to follow closely the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the european court of auditors found that there were no practical arrangements for ex post audits of the joint undertaking, which does not guarantee accurate monitoring of its management, and this is the fourth year in a row that the court has expressed reservations on its accounts. i therefore voted against the discharge for the implementation of its budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for eniac to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors' finding, echoed by the parliament's rapporteur, is clear: little seriousness in following up on previous recommendations provided by the commission, no internal audit report provided by eniac in 2014; the commission has also been informed of two major irregularities in the management of the joint venture. from a purely budgetary point of view, it may be recalled that the initial budget for 2014 included only commitment appropriations for operating costs, amounting to eur 2 300 000, and that the budget did not provide for commitment appropriations for operational activities. in addition, it was found that the utilization rate of administrative commitment appropriations was only 43%. a real waste of budget which deserves to be highlighted and reformed.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the joint undertaking's budget execution, while at the same time raising serious doubts about the integrity of its accounts for the fourth consecutive year. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of its budget. however, the present report is rather harsh on the management of the union's contribution, which amounted to almost €450 million over 10 years. despite the guarantees of reliability and regularity given by the national authorities concerned, i voted against the report granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ over the ten years of operation of the joint undertaking, the union's contribution was €450 million, out of a significantly larger total. the report is rather harsh on the activities of this joint venture. while the financial commitments come mainly from external contributors, the court notes a lack of seriousness in following up the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the joint undertaking does not appear to be committed to improving its internal audit. the report nevertheless notes that the joint undertaking has received assurances from the relevant national authorities on the reliability and regularity of its operations. the joint undertaking is to be governed by the laws of the member states and the union, and is to be managed by the commission. the court also found that there were no practical arrangements for ex post audits of the joint undertaking. the commission has therefore issued reserves in its accounts for the fourth consecutive year. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ vote against: while the report mentions the need to review the management of the joint undertaking, many audits are ongoing, following the internal investigation of the joint undertaking in 2015. while they aim to demonstrate that the national procedures provide reasonable assurance of the legality and regularity of the transactions, the court found that there were no practical arrangements for ex post audits of the joint undertaking. this does not guarantee that its management is followed precisely. it has therefore issued reserves in its accounts for the fourth consecutive year.
in writing. ‒ the activities of this joint undertaking are criticised by this report, which highlights a lack of rigour in taking account of the recommendations of the commission's internal audit and a lack of interest in optimising the latter. even if the competent national authorities have guaranteed the reliability and regularity of the company's operations, the fact remains that due diligence audits reveal the absence of practical provisions for ex-post audits of the company and thus the inability to follow its management precisely. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking. this vote has been refused many times, but the new elements of information provided by eniac now allow us to grant this discharge. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it could be more critical in view of the criticisms made by the court of auditors of this undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 2014 discharge for the eniac joint undertaking. the joint undertaking is to be governed by the laws of the member states and the union, and is to be managed by the commission. while they aim to demonstrate that the national procedures provide reasonable assurance of the legality and regularity of the operations, the court found that there are no practical arrangements for ex post audits of the joint undertaking, which do not guarantee accurate monitoring of its management. the commission has therefore issued reserves in its accounts for the fourth consecutive year. there is a lack of seriousness in the follow-up of internal audit.
in writing. ‒ while the financial commitments are mainly from external contributors, the court notes a lack of seriousness in following up the recommendations received from the commission's internal audit service. the report nevertheless notes that the eniac joint undertaking has received assurances from the relevant national authorities on the reliability and regularity of its operations. the court found that there were no practical arrangements for ex post audits of the joint undertaking, which did not guarantee a precise follow-up of its management. the commission has therefore issued reserves in its accounts for the fourth consecutive year. the report calling for discharge on the implementation of the budget, i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the audit focuses on the share of eu funds allocated to the joint undertaking. the court of auditors expresses reservations, while the national authorities concerned approve of its effectiveness: it is not acceptable to vote for discharge for the agency on the joint technological initiative for nanoelectronics technologies (eniac) in such a vague management context.
in writing. ‒ this report gives a discharge to the eniac joint undertaking, set up by the european union to promote nanotechnologies and now merged into the eselc joint undertaking on electronic components and systems, for the implementation of the 2014 budget. the report notes, however, that the court of auditors expressed doubts as to the regularity and legality of the financial operations of the joint undertaking. it pointed out that the audit reports of the states on the agency's work had not been evaluated or taken into account. i regret the lack of democratic control over the budget, especially on a sensitive and controversial subject such as nanotechnology. i therefore vote against this discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the granting of discharge, originally planned at the april plenary session, had been postponed because eniac had not submitted certain information necessary for the granting of discharge. this information has since been properly communicated to the cont commission. therefore, there is no longer any reason why we should not agree to both these discharges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the 2014 discharge to the eniac (nanoelectronics) joint undertaking. this technical vote follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets that the annual evaluation of the agency's accounts did not take over the past management of the joint undertakings and was no longer completed. the commission notes that the financial commitments were not fully implemented in 2014 and that the financial commitments were not fully implemented in 2014. from the management point of view, this raises a problem of the regularity of the accounts. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in place. although now merged, it is legally bound to comply with it as long as it exists. finally, no robust policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been put in place. the report nevertheless indicates that the joint undertaking has obtained audit reports from the national authorities attesting to its financial soundness since the last discharge. however, management is not yet sufficiently rigorous, as audits do not cover all the operations monitored. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as recommended by the committee on the substance in its second reading, in view of the receipt of the additional evidence to justify and close the accounts on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for a discharge to be given to the artemis joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of its budget. the latter has been merged with another within the ecsel joint undertaking, and accounting is unclear, as the regularity of financial commitments which predate the merger and are ongoing cannot be established. other problems are to be noted, for example the lack of a policy to prevent conflicts of interest or the lack of updating of the management rules to comply with the new financial regulations in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which asked for the discharge to be given on the implementation of artemis' budget for the financial year 2014. it is true that artemis merged with eniac in 2014 into the joint venture called ecsel. however, the problems stem mainly from this merger, as the report rightly notes: financial commitments continued in 2014 without it being known whether they concern ecsel, i.e. the new joint venture, or artemis. this kind of opacity obviously calls into question the regularity of the accounts. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial regulation. finally, and this seems to be the case with many of the union's agencies and joint undertakings, there is a total lack of transparency on the prevention of conflicts of interest at ecsel.
in writing. ‒ this report advocates the discharge of the joint undertaking's budget execution, while at the same time raising serious doubts about the rigour of its management, in particular that the audits do not cover all the operations monitored and that a blur persists between the activities of artemis and those of ecsel following the merger in 2014 with eniac. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge to be given to the artemis company for the implementation of its budget. audits and other management reports do not cover all the operations monitored and no serious conflict prevention policy has been implemented. for these two main reasons i voted against the report granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets that the annual evaluation of the agency's accounts did not take over the past management of the joint undertakings and was not more successful. indeed, many financial commitments continued in 2014 without it being possible to establish whether they concerned ecsel or artemis. from the management point of view, this raises a problem of the regularity of the accounts. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in place. although now merged, it is legally bound to comply with it as long as it exists. finally, no robust policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been implemented. the report nevertheless indicates that the joint undertaking has obtained audit reports from the national authorities attesting to its financial soundness since the last discharge. however, management is not yet sufficiently rigorous, as audits do not cover all the operations monitored. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ votes against: insufficient management, audits failing to cover all the operations monitored.
in writing. ‒ while incomplete audits by the national authorities have revealed the sound financial health of the joint undertaking, the management is not, in my view, considered sufficiently serious to support the report's proposal to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the artemis joint undertaking. this vote has been refused many times, but the new information provided by artemis now allows us to grant this discharge. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it is not sufficiently critical: no voluntary policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 2014 discharge for the artemis joint undertaking. although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to form the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets that the agency's annual accounts assessment did not take over their past management. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to ecsel. in management terms, this poses a problem of the regularity of the accounts. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in place. although now merged, it is legally bound to comply with it as long as it exists. finally, no robust policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been put in place.
in writing. ‒ although the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to form the ecsel joint undertaking in 2014, the report regrets that the agency's annual accounts assessment did not take up the past management of the joint undertakings. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. in management terms, this situation poses a real problem of the regularity of the accounts. in addition, the joint undertaking did not change its management rules to comply with the new financial regulation in place. finally, no robust policy to prevent conflicts of interest has been put in place. we do not consider the management to be sufficiently rigorous, since the audits do not cover all the operations monitored. the report calling for discharge on the implementation of this budget, i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the annual evaluation of the accounts of the agency for the joint technology initiative for the development of information technology (artemis), which since 2014 has been merged with the agency for the joint technology initiative for nanoelectronics technologies (eniac), is not serious, and not in line with the new financial regulation in place. once again, the audits of the national authorities concerned validate the regularity of the accounts: once again the reliability of these reports can be called into question. it is therefore inconceivable to validate the management of this company.
in writing. ‒ this report gives a discharge to the artemis joint undertaking, set up by the european union to develop embedded it systems and now merged into the eselc joint undertaking on electronic components and systems, for the implementation of the 2014 budget. the report notes, however, that the court of auditors expressed doubts as to the regularity and legality of the financial operations of the joint undertaking. it pointed out that the audit reports of the states on the agency's work had not been evaluated or taken into account. the report even expresses its 'concern' about the lack of internal audit measures for the company's activities. so we wonder why he's giving a quitus. i therefore vote against this discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the discharge, originally scheduled for last april's plenary session, had been postponed because artemis had not submitted certain information necessary for the discharge. this information has since been properly communicated to the cont commission. therefore, there is no longer any reason why we should not agree to both these discharges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 discharge to the artemis joint undertaking (on-board computer systems). this technical vote follows the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget. the iter joint undertaking is subject to criticism by the court. the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. an iter (governance) council was set up to address these planning weaknesses. the procurement procedures, which have been criticised in the past for their lack of rigour (or for the lack of conformity of the contractors with the project requirements), have been partially corrected. the report notes that the action plans are now better implemented and closely monitored by the iter organisation and the joint undertaking. he added that this should lead to improvements. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the project's financial situation. four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met. the report adds that the issue of the lease of the joint undertaking's premises has been resolved and welcomes the entry into force on 1 january 2016 of the new joint undertaking financial regulation and the new implementing rules. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as recommended by the committee on the substance in its second reading, in view of the receipt of the additional evidence to justify and close the accounts on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ although there are still some shortcomings, the iter joint undertaking has made a significant effort, which has already produced impressive results, and this should lead to further improvements for the good project it is carrying out. four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met. the report adds that the issue of the lease of the joint undertaking's premises has been resolved and welcomes the entry into force on 1 january 2016 of the new joint undertaking financial regulation and the new implementing rules. it is on the basis of this progress that i am voting in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which recommends granting discharge to the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and which i have therefore supported. it is true, as the court of auditors has repeatedly pointed out, that there is a need to be vigilant about the risks of cost overruns, despite the establishment of an internal financing fund to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress. however, it should be borne in mind that these risks are due to the nature of the project itself. it should also be noted that the problems related to the procurement procedures have been partially resolved. finally, the conclusions of the iter council meeting in june 2016 should be taken into account, which found that the project is now moving in the right direction, in particular due to a realistic timetable and reasonable associated costs. for example, four of the six deadlines for fusion for energy have already been met. the progress made by iter on financial management issues, including the entry into force of its new financial regulation, should be acknowledged.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that iter be given discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget. while shortcomings in the management of the joint undertaking had been identified previously, the report acknowledges that serious progress has been made since then. therefore, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the iter joint undertaking is being strongly criticised by the court of justice of the european union. despite the establishment of an internal financing fund to compensate for any potential risks in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns that remain high. the report also states that cost estimates are systematically lower than the actual costs. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the project's financial situation. four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met. the report adds that the issue of the lease of the joint undertaking's premises has been resolved and welcomes the entry into force on 1 january 2016 of the new joint undertaking financial regulation and the new implementing rules. that is why i voted in favour of this report granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ despite the creation of an internal financing fund, intended to compensate for any potential risks in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. an iter governance council was set up to address these planning weaknesses. the procurement procedures have been partially improved. the report states that cost estimates are systematically lower than the actual costs. despite the development of a cost management system, many shortcomings remain in the quality of the project organisation. the report notes, however, that the action plans are now better implemented and closely monitored by the iter organisation and the joint undertaking. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the project's financial situation. four of the six deadlines set for fusion for energy have since been met. the report adds that the issue of the lease of the joint undertaking's premises has been resolved and welcomes the entry into force on 1 january 2016 of the new joint undertaking financial regulation and the new implementing rules. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: on the continuation of the project, the iter council confirmed in june 2016 that the project is now moving in the right direction, with a realistic timetable and reasonable associated costs. of the six deadlines assigned to fusion for energy, four have since been met. the report adds that the issue of the lease of the joint undertaking's premises has been resolved and welcomes the entry into force on 1 january 2016 of the new joint undertaking financial regulation and the new implementing rules.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the high probability of cost overruns in the complex and flawed project of the joint undertaking, despite the creation of an internal financing plan and a governance council to improve planning efforts. in addition, cost estimates are consistently underestimated in relation to reality and prevent the proper organisation of the project. however, the report notes improved implementation of the action plans and greater rigour in the project monitoring. there is reason to expect rapid improvement in cost estimates and timing. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the iter council took account of the criticisms of the court of auditors and presented a realistic timetable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2014 discharge concerning the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. this report calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. despite the establishment of an internal financing fund, intended to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. these risks are inherent in the complex nature of the project and the regular evolution of its scope. an iter (governance) council was set up to address these planning weaknesses. the procurement procedures, which have been criticised in the past for their lack of rigour, have been partially corrected. the report notes that the action plans are now better implemented and closely monitored by the iter organisation and the joint undertaking. he added that this should lead to improvements. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the project's financial situation.
in writing. ‒ the iter joint undertaking is subject to criticism by the court. despite the establishment of an internal financing fund, intended to compensate for any uncertainties in the project's progress, the report highlights the risks of cost overruns, which remain high. these risks are inherent in the nature of the project, which is itself quite complex, and in the regular evolution of its scope. an iter (governance) council was set up to address these planning weaknesses. despite the establishment of a cost management system, many shortcomings remain in the quality of the project organisation. the report notes, however, that the action plans are now better implemented and closely monitored by the iter organisation and the joint undertaking. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the project's financial situation. i voted in favour of the report calling for discharge.
in writing. - i voted for this text. i think it is legitimate to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of this joint undertaking. recently, management has improved following serious checks which clearly revealed shortcomings in the project organisation.
in writing. ‒ this report gives a discharge to the iter joint undertaking, set up to develop a new generation european nuclear reactor, for the implementation of its 2014 budget. i have criticised the scale and frequency of european investment in nuclear, while renewables remain the poor relation of european energy policy. i therefore voted against this budget and i shall logically vote against this discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the discharge, originally planned at the april plenary, had been postponed because iter had not submitted some of the information needed for the discharge. this information has since been properly communicated to the cont committee. therefore, there is no longer any reason why we should not agree to both these discharges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 discharge for the iter project (civil fusion research reactor, 35 participating countries), which is a technical vote following the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the actions of the iraqi government and the anti-daesh coalition in iraq to liberate mosul. it is essential that international humanitarian law be respected in the course of this operation.
in writing. ‒ the resolutions of the groups and the joint resolution that emerged from them constitute the european parliament's commentary on the battle of mosul, where the iraqi army, supported by the international coalition, intends to defeat the islamic state group. the joint resolution, like all the resolutions of the political groups, with the exception of the ecr group, critically uses humanitarian action to call for an international role for the eu which it cannot claim and to demand additional resources which will be requested from the states. i have criticised in this house the hypocrisy which prevails on this subject in the european parliament. you can find my speech on my website.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution which supports the operation of the iraqi forces to liberate mosul from the islamic state group, while recalling that the protection of the civilian population must be a top priority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in this vote because, if the project has a humanitarian purpose which can only be welcomed, the european union would have been given a diplomatic role to which it cannot claim. it is for the sovereign nations to decide on such matters.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this resolution concerning the situation in northern iraq and mosul. i supported the observations made on the humanitarian situation itself, particularly with regard to the precarious situation of christian minorities and their essential role for the stability of the region. it is therefore necessary to emphasize - as i myself have done in various resolutions - the real ethnic and religious cleansing of which christians are victims. iraq had 1.5 million christians in 2003, but now only between 200,000 and 350,000 live in extreme poverty. it is true that it was also important to raise the issue of displacement of population and i was pleasantly surprised that my colleagues mentioned the 'right to return to one's country of origin' in this resolution. however, i reject the diplomatic role that the european union wishes to play in this resolution. it is up to the member states, with their military, experience and diplomatic relations, to act together to deal with this situation. the european union, as a supranational legal body, does not enjoy this constitutive prerogative of the states.
in writing. ‒ the iraqi government and the international coalition launched a major offensive on the night of 16-17 october 2016 with the aim of liberating mosul and northern iraq from daesh. this resolution fully supports this operation because the humanitarian situation on the ground could not go on any longer. indeed, ethnic and religious minorities such as christians and yazidis are daily victims of persecution in the areas occupied by daesh. the text calls on the member states to do everything possible to ensure that the international criminal court considers the crimes committed by daesh to be 'genocide'. we must also step up the european union's humanitarian aid in the region. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the capture of mosul by the jihadist group 'islamic state' and the iraqi operation to liberate the city. the resolution urges the iraqi authorities to take the necessary measures to protect civilians and public service buildings. the resolution also condemns the crimes against humanity committed by the islamic state against iraqi minorities, in particular christian minorities, and calls on the international criminal court to address the issue. considering that the protection of civilians and stabilisation, supported by the european union, are the priorities of the iraqi military forces, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the situation in northern iraq and mosul. the group 'islamic state' is engaged in a veritable massacre of christians, yazidis and other ethnic and religious minorities. these atrocities in iraq include war crimes, crimes against humanity, whose horror is beyond description. calls on the member states of the european union to make every effort to ensure that the international criminal court can be seized and try these crimes committed, in particular, in iraq, syria and libya by the islamic state. we must continue to intensify our efforts to protect christians in the east in particular.
in writing. the armed conflicts in syria and iraq are a challenge for the world and for europe. the war is upsetting the game of alliances in the middle east and has repercussions as far as europe, which is being overwhelmed by the influx of civilians fleeing the violence. it is essential to fight against the group 'islamic state' (is) in order to put an end to terror. iraqi and kurdish forces have launched a massive ground operation to retake iraq's second city, mosul, from isil since 2014. this offensive must be accompanied by humanitarian support. according to unhcr, 1.5 million people are at imminent risk of displacement from the ongoing operation. there is an urgent need to open and secure camps to accommodate them. humanitarian corridors must be established to allow the necessary aid to transit from neighbouring countries. the union must also intervene at the political level. support reconstruction, stabilisation and security for all local communities through enhanced dialogue between iraq and the countries of the region.
in writing. ‒ this is the european parliament's commentary on the battle for mosul, where the iraqi army, backed by the international coalition, is aiming to defeat the islamic state group and various jihadist militias. the various resolutions on the subject are texts of a humanitarian nature. the joint resolution, like all the resolutions of the political groups, with the exception of the ecr group, critically exploits humanitarian action to invoke an international role of the eu from which it cannot benefit. in addition to undermining the sovereignty of states, this would have the effect of increasing their contributions. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ abstention on the joint resolution: this, like all the resolutions of the political groups (except the ecr group), critically uses humanitarian action to call for an international role for the eu which it cannot claim and furthermore demands additional means which will be requested from the states.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution focuses mainly on humanitarian considerations, which are rather sensitive in nature, but it gives the european union a diplomatic role that it should not have. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague lars adaktusson on the situation in northern iraq and mosul. we are voting in support of the iraqi authorities in taking all necessary measures to protect civilians and to liberate mosul from daesh terrorists. in this context, the european union has provided €134 million in humanitarian aid to iraq and €50 million for mosul. it is therefore more necessary than ever to continue our efforts to stabilize the region. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - i abstained on that resolution. it is true that it has the merit of supporting iraqi forces against the islamist militias. but it is trying to give the eu a diplomatic role, whereas i believe that diplomacy should remain the prerogative of the states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the situation in northern iraq and mosul. this is a very worrying situation indeed. while the text rightly raises humanitarian problems, it does give the european union a diplomatic role which it cannot claim.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the city of mosul has been under the control of daesh since 2014. the resolution is parliament's comment on the recent efforts of the iraqi army, backed by the international coalition, to retake the city. this text, which is humanitarian in nature, is quite balanced. on the other hand, we are opposed to the eu using humanitarian action to justify its international role and to justify requests for additional resources from member states.
in writing. ‒ the resolution rightly condemns the abuses committed by the 'islamic state' group in iraq, and more particularly in mosul. the resolution 'strongly supports the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from the islamic state group' while at the same time the eu condemns the operations to liberate east aleppo from the jihadists'. the resolution naively believes that 'this operation is a crucial element in an ongoing global effort to inflict a lasting defeat on the islamic state group' when we already see some daesh members retreating to the city of raqqa, which only moves the problem to syria. finally, the resolution ignores the heterogeneous nature of the coalition, which itself poses threats to the civilian population, the majority of whom are sunnis, in particular by the shiite militias of the popular mobilization forces or hachd al-shaabi. i am voting in favour, denouncing the asymmetry in the assessment of the treatment of military operations in the middle east and its purely propagandistic character.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the situation in northern iraq and mosul, which supports the action being taken at this very moment to liberate this city in which the islamist barbarians have proclaimed a caliphate and in which they continue to commit mass atrocities every day.
in writing. ‒ i supported the operation of the iraqi forces to liberate the city of mosul from the control of the so-called islamic state group. the presence of jihadists scattered throughout the region, from iraq to syria, is endangering the desired stability in the area. it is mainly civilians and minorities (christians and yazidis in particular) who are the victims of daesh's atrocities. we must fight with all our might against these barbarians, eradicate their presence and restore to the people the simple right to live in peace.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which gives the european parliament's support to the iraqi operation to liberate mosul from the terrorist group 'islamic state'. this terrorist organisation uses children, the elderly, women and vulnerable people as shields against the military liberation operations carried out by iraq, the peshmerga and kurdish forces; this is unacceptable. it is therefore crucial and urgent that the iraqi authorities take all necessary measures to protect civilians, schools and hospitals. in the face of the systematic massacre of religious and ethnic minorities by the 'islamic state' group in iraq, it is essential to act without delay against these abuses and to bring to justice those responsible for such atrocities. in this sense, i supported this text which once again calls the systematic persecution and execution of christians, yazidis and other minorities genocide.
in writing. - i co-signed that resolution. i condemn the recent police raids and the detention of several journalists and media representatives in turkey. these actions undermine the freedom of the media, an essential pillar of democracy.
in writing. ‒ the text acknowledges the deplorable situation of press freedom and freedom of opinion in turkey, but fails to draw the logical and obvious conclusion that turkey does not meet the criteria for negotiating eu membership and that these negotiations must therefore be stopped. the enl group tabled its own resolution and three amendments to the joint resolution. none of these proposals was adopted. the mainstream political groups like the european commission continue to deny reality and refuse to recognise that turkey has no place in the european union. i therefore voted against the joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion on the situation of journalists in turkey tabled by the enf group. while it is necessary to denounce the turkish authorities' action against journalists in the country, i believe that the considerations in this resolution are aimed at defending the interests of the enf group.
in writing. - the text is remarkable in that it takes note of the disastrous situation of freedom of opinion in turkey, about which we should not remain silent, and that it still does not know how to draw the logical consequences. the proposal refuses to stop the negotiations for the accession of this country to the european union, while stressing that the criteria are far from being met. i voted against, of course.
in writing. ‒ i supported the alternative resolution tabled by the enl group on the situation of journalists in turkey, but i opposed the joint resolution of the other groups, which condemns the consequences of the causes it cherishes. i myself have tried several times to raise awareness of the situation of journalists and freedom of expression in general in turkey. it is, however, incredible that this resolution recognizes that these fundamental freedoms are being flouted, without also calling for the negotiations in the framework of turkey's accession process to be stopped. the union, so quick to finger the member states when it comes to respect for the rule of law, does not seem to realise its total schizophrenia when it comes to turkey. since 15 july, the date of the failed military coup in turkey, dozens of media outlets have been closed down (three news agencies, 45 newspapers, 16 television channels, 23 radio stations, 15 magazines and 29 publishing houses), 150 generals have been dismissed, 1 099 officers have been excluded from the army, more than 15 000 people have been placed in custody and thousands of teachers have been made unemployed.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for a resolution is a realistic assessment of the appalling climate in which journalists have been living in turkey since the failed coup attempt of 15 july 2016. as of october 2016, no less than 130 media professionals were detained for acts related to their work. some of them were denied the right to access a lawyer. however, this joint motion for a resolution is limited to a mere sterile description of the persecution of journalists and does not at any time call for the permanent breakdown of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. that is why i voted against this joint motion for a resolution and supported the motion for a resolution by the europe of nations and freedoms group. the latter recalled the incompatibility of the turkish government's authoritarian excesses with european fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the situation of journalists in turkey. since the failed coup attempt of 15 july 2016, the turkish government has arrested at least 99 journalists, revoked the press cards of at least 330 journalists, and closed the offices of more than 100 media outlets. these measures have led to the elimination of more than 2 300 press jobs. the resolution strongly condemns the policy of the erdogan government towards the media and the press, denouncing the violation of the freedom of the press, a fundamental principle in the european union. the resolution recalls that 'a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy'. considering that the emergency measures following the attempted coup d'état should not be used as a pretext for the government to infringe freedom of expression, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported this resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey. the turkish government's reaction to the coup attempt of 15 july 2016 should not jeopardise freedom of expression and allow the opposition and journalists to be gagged. freedom of expression and freedom of the media are essential components of any democratic and open society, as are the right to a fair trial, the presumption of innocence and the independence of the judiciary.
in writing. following the failed coup attempt in turkey, the turkish government has taken numerous repressive measures leading, among others, to the arrest of journalists and media executives across the country as well as the closure of several newspapers, television channels, radio stations and online media. according to reporters without borders, during the first two and a half months of the state of emergency, 99 journalists were imprisoned, sometimes without charge, making turkey the country with the highest number of journalists in prison. the attempted coup d'état must be condemned. but it must not be used as a pretext to gag the opposition, to deprive journalists and the media of the peaceful exercise of their freedom of expression by disproportionate and unlawful acts and measures. the union must denounce these violations of freedom of expression, freedom of the press and media pluralism and act to strengthen the rule of law in the country.
in writing. ‒ this text is clear on the deplorable situation of press freedom and freedom of opinion in turkey. however, it does not draw the obvious and logical conclusion that turkey does not meet the criteria for negotiating eu membership and that these negotiations should therefore be terminated. the enf group tabled its own resolution and three amendments to the joint resolution. none of these proposals was adopted. the political groups of the system and the european commission continue to deny reality and refuse to recognize that turkey has no place in the european union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote: for the enf resolution and against the joint resolution. the text of the joint resolution acknowledges the deplorable situation of press freedom and freedom of opinion in turkey, but fails to draw the logical and obvious conclusion that turkey does not meet the criteria for negotiating eu membership and that these negotiations must therefore be stopped.
in writing. ‒ i note that this text mentions the deplorable situation of freedom of opinion in turkey but does not draw the conclusion that everyone must draw, namely that this country does not meet the criteria for negotiating its integration into the european union, which proves the impossibility of continuing this process. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, renate sommer, on the situation of journalists in turkey. since the failed coup of 15 july, more than 23,000 media professionals have been unemployed (withdrawing press cards, arresting or closing media outlets). we are voting in strong condemnation of the turkish authorities' crackdown on all those who are peacefully opposing the regime. we call for the release of journalists against whom there is no irrefutable evidence of criminal activity. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it shows great hypocrisy. it rightly protests against the violation of press freedom in turkey, but does not draw the obvious conclusion that turkey does not meet the criteria for negotiating its accession to the eu. the alternative resolution of the enf group, which called for the end of the accession process for turkey, received only 83 votes out of 751.
in writing. ‒ in response to the 15 july coup in turkey, the erdogan regime has launched a massive witch hunt in the turkish state apparatus. with these purges in the turkish army, administration, education and justice, it is the whole of the institutions that are being put on hold, leaving only the press and the media as counterpowers in the face of the turkish power's excesses. they are also victims: since the coup attempt, the turkish police have arrested at least 99 journalists and writers, most of whom have not been charged to date. around 100 broadcasters, newspapers, magazines, publishers and distribution companies have been arbitrarily closed down, resulting in more than 2,300 journalists being unemployed and 330 journalists being deprived of their press cards. the resolution strongly condemns the turkish authorities' attempts to undermine media freedom and pressure on journalists and their associates. it is also concerned about the current drift and calls for the scope of emergency measures to be reduced so that they can no longer be used to undermine freedom of expression. i therefore joined in this resolution by co-signing it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey. the text acknowledges the deplorable situation of press freedom and freedom of opinion in turkey, but fails to draw the logical and obvious conclusion that turkey does not meet the criteria for negotiating eu membership and that these negotiations must therefore be stopped. the mainstream political groups like the european commission continue to deny reality and refuse to recognise that turkey has no place in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint motion for a resolution. turkey does not meet the democratic criteria and should not be allowed to negotiate its accession to the european union. the text pretends to ignore this truth, but notes that the situation of journalists in turkey is unacceptable and that freedom of the press, as well as freedom of opinion, are not respected. this proposal does not accept that negotiations with this country, which does not and will never belong to european civilization, must be stopped. we tabled a motion for a resolution which very logically arrived at this conclusion, but it was rejected by the rest of the members who prefer to indulge in illusions and believe that they can change turkey and make it 'european'. we do not share that view.
in writing. ‒ following the coup attempt in july 2016, the turkish authorities closed the offices of more than 100 broadcasters, newspapers, magazines, publishers and distribution companies, leaving 2,300 journalists and media professionals without jobs, and 330 journalists without press cards. the resolution 'calls on the turkish authorities to release journalists and media professionals who are detained without irrefutable evidence of criminal activity' while recognising 'the right and responsibility of the turkish government to respond to the coup attempt'. i regret that this text does not mention can dündar, former editor of the turkish daily cumhuriyet, arrested in november 2015 for "disclosure of state secrets" after his newspaper published articles and a video showing a shipment of weapons, operated in 2014 by the turkish secret services (mit) to syrian islamist groups. his case shows that the situation of journalists was already problematic before the attempted coup. that is why i voted for this text despite his guilty amnesia and shyness.
in writing. ‒ this text was about the current situation of journalists in turkey. following the failed coup attempt on 15 july 2016, the government has continued to arrest journalists, although the majority of journalists arrested have no charges against them. the text stresses that the coup in turkey must not be used by the government to arrest journalists who are doing their job in order to silence the opposition. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the turkish government to release journalists arrested and arbitrarily detained in the country. the turkish government has recently, and particularly since the attempted coup in the country (which shows the political instability that can take place there), multiplied actions that go against fundamental freedoms defended in our european states. as a reminder, since july 2016, offices of nearly 100 turkish media outlets have been closed by the authorities and about 100 journalists have been arrested. in this context, the question of turkey's accession to the european union, which has been under negotiation for several decades, is inevitably raised once again. i repeat firmly: i am and will remain opposed to turkey's entry into our community, the european union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey to ask the turkish government not to use the failed coup attempt of 15 july to gag the opposition, the media and the judiciary. the resolution condemns the closure of media outlets, the unjustified imprisonment of journalists, the denial of the right to access a lawyer, and the pressure on the families of journalists and foreign correspondents. it also reiterated its call on the turkish government to reform its anti-terrorism legislation and to reduce the scope of emergency measures in order to put an end to their extensive interpretations which are contrary to freedom of expression. it advocates the reopening of arbitrarily closed media outlets and the release of unjustly imprisoned media professionals. that is why i am signing this text. i regret, however, that the resolution is limited to journalists and the media, without mentioning the imprisonment of several thousand judges, which undermines the independence of the judiciary and therefore the rule of law. i also regret that the persecution of kurdish media and personalities has not been denounced and that, in this context, can dundar's application for the sakharov prize has not been accepted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am deeply concerned about the deterioration of the security situation in the eu's neighbourhood and beyond, which could lead to a resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and possible proliferation among state and non-state actors, and about the lack of effective disarmament and non-proliferation measures.
in writing. ‒ this report is an extension of the 2003 european strategy against nuclear proliferation and comes in the context of the anniversary of the non-proliferation treaty. if the objective of reducing nuclear weapons can be accepted as an international objective, most of the resolutions contain serious infringements of the sovereignty of states such as: the desire to force france and england to give up their strike forces; the joint resolution also calls for the establishment of a binding principle of international law (jus cogens) requiring the end of nuclear weapons. such a provision is a danger to the classical international law based on the will of states. the various resolutions call for an end to technological improvement and maintenance of nuclear arsenals; the fight against proliferation is already assigned internationally to different agencies such as the iaea, the eu does not have to use this cause to take on an international role. it should be noted that only the ecr resolution, which i voted in favour of, respects the sovereignty of states and their right to possess tactical nuclear weapons in accordance with freely agreed international conventions. as for the joint resolution, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution, which denounces the deteriorating security situation in the eu's neighbourhood and beyond. the proliferation of nuclear weapons, coupled with the absence of effective disarmament measures, is a real threat and it is necessary for the union, in collaboration with international institutions, to take measures to counter it.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of this resolution which seeks to give the european union a diplomatic role that would encroach on french sovereignty, while de facto reducing the influence and defence capabilities of our country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation because, although this text is well-intentioned, it falls into the trap of interfering with the defence strategy policy of both member states and non-member states. it bothers me that a supranational but non-state structure like the eu allows itself to dictate to sovereign nations the military doctrines they should apply. it is interesting to note that, while it is seeking to channel the defence capabilities of the member states, the eu seems to be seeking to increase its own. if this resolution thus outlines the contours of a 'europe of defence', it would obviously be done within the framework of nato, that is to say under american control: however, the authors of the text are not afraid to accuse russia of all possible violations of freedom. we wonder what freedom would be like for a european army at the head of the atlanticist strategy. finally, i wanted to support the ecr resolution on the subject because it has the merit of respecting the sovereignty of states as well as international conventions.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is part of the 2003 european strategy against nuclear proliferation. we share, of course, the desire to contribute to the reduction of nuclear weapons. however, we cannot endorse this motion for a resolution which seriously undermines the sovereignty of the member states. the text advocated forcing france and england to give up their strike forces. in addition, it is called for an end to technological improvement and maintenance of nuclear arsenals without any awareness of the consequences such measures could have for the security of our fellow citizens. finally, we recall that the fight against nuclear proliferation must be dealt with between sovereign nations at international level. the european union therefore has no diplomatic legitimacy to intervene in this area. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with nuclear non-proliferation and related prevention measures. considering that this resolution goes far beyond mere recommendations on nuclear management, stressing the need to 'rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons of all types', by establishing a binding legal instrument prohibiting nuclear weapons and paving the way for their total prohibition, including for recognised military powers such as france, i have decided to vote against this report which goes beyond its mandate without effectively addressing the issue of proliferation in the world.
in writing. i did not support the resolution on nuclear safety and non-proliferation. while it is extremely important to have a strict framework on the issue of nuclear proliferation to prevent, inter alia, terrorists or new states from acquiring or using nuclear weapons, i am not in favour of holding a conference open to all states to negotiate a legally binding instrument prohibiting nuclear weapons and paving the way for their total prohibition.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on nuclear safety and non-proliferation because it contains paragraphs which make proposals that are not adapted to the reality of certain member states. the text proposes a ban on nuclear weapons, with a view to their total elimination. i think that this proposal is not appropriate for countries which possess nuclear arsenals and pursue a strictly defensive and deterrent policy. i am more in favour of pragmatic and gradual disarmament, but unfortunately this resolution does not propose that solution.
in writing. ‒ this text is a continuation of the 2003 european strategy against nuclear proliferation and comes in the context of the anniversary of the non-proliferation treaty. while it is commendable to aim at the reduction of nuclear weapons as an international objective, the joint resolution advocates the establishment of a binding principle of international law (jus cogens) requiring the end of nuclear weapons. such a provision is a danger to conventional international law based on the consent of states. finally, it should be remembered that the fight against proliferation is already assigned at international level to different agencies such as the iaea. the eu does not have to use this case as a pretext for playing an international role. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against the joint resolution: while the reduction of nuclear weapons can be accepted as an international objective, the resolution contains serious infringements of the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ in my view, this proposal justifies a diplomatic role which should not be returned to the european union, just as it threatens the french strike force. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation. the text went against france's nuclear deterrence strategy, which helps to protect europe, and i could not support it. however, i agree with those who denounce the deterioration in relations between the nuclear-armed countries, which seriously undermines the security of europe. as in the case of the iran deal, we must now, more than ever, continue our efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is too aggressive towards russia. secondly, and above all, the eu is trying to interfere in france's nuclear defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which seeks to end nuclear deterrence. given the current international security context, this strategy does not seem relevant, because we need these defensive tools that help to guarantee our sovereignty. this resolution proposes a counterproductive process, whereas some countries, including france, are currently committed to a progressive and pragmatic disarmament, which would not be applied by the main countries concerned.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text extends the 2003 european strategy against nuclear proliferation. we are not opposing the international objective of reducing nuclear weapons, but we are opposing the serious attacks on national sovereignty. the text envisages forcing france and britain to renounce their strike forces by establishing a binding principle of international law requiring the end of nuclear weapons and by resolutions calling for an end to the technological improvement and maintenance of nuclear arsenals.
in writing. ‒ this resolution uses the pretext of the fight against nuclear proliferation to attack russia once again. yet russia does not threaten any country with nuclear attack and has never carried out a nuclear attack, unlike the united states. in fact, it was the united states that announced in october that it was preparing to invest massively in the renewal of its nuclear weapons for the next decades, under the pretext of guarding against the "russian threat". the two countries also planned to oppose the un resolution banning nuclear weapons. this resolution, which denounces only russia's nuclear force, is therefore completely hypocritical and asymmetrical. i am in favour of nuclear arms reduction and non-proliferation. but this text is an act of bellicose commitment which will aggravate the tensions it denounces. i abstain on this text
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation. the presence of provisions which once again call russia into question justified my vote. the european union, by imposing sanctions which harm our farmers and producers more than they bring about diplomatic solutions and instead of talking to russia to fight effectively against daesh, which is more than ever our common enemy, prefers to lock itself up in this anti-russian paranoia.
in writing. ‒ the fight against nuclear proliferation, which is unfortunately still a problem in some countries of the world, is an objective shared by a large majority in the european parliament. however, the role of meps should not be to challenge the choice of eu member states, particularly france, which make the presence of nuclear power a principle of national security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that enhances active citizenship and personal human development, and is an essential tool for social integration and cohesion, alongside training, education and intercultural dialogue, while making a major contribution to the dissemination of european values. it should be noted that its benefits are also recognised in voluntary activities with third countries, as it is a strategic tool that promotes mutual understanding and intercultural relations.
in writing. ‒ as usual, the european union is using good feelings and laudable ideas as the trojan horse of an ever-deepening integration policy and a strengthening of its competences. there is also concern that, like erasmus+, volunteering will be diverted to be used as a school for europe's 'future posted workers'. finally, the desire to appeal to the good feelings of the citizens of the member states to manage the refugee crisis in their stead is unacceptable. i therefore did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to have a european legal framework for voluntary activities which are an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility and which enhance citizenship and personal development. it is necessary to take into account the fact that nearly 100 million europeans are volunteers.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this vote because, while i am of course not against the principle of voluntary action, the european union is once again using the goodwill of citizens to try to arrogate powers that threaten our sovereignty and to accelerate the integration of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this resolution on the european voluntary service, which is a further example of the capacity of the european institutions to take a good idea and turn it into a trojan horse in the service of their federalist ideology. if everyone agrees to recognise the benefits of volunteering - whether for society as a whole or for the volunteer himself, who acquires valuable technical and human skills - there was no need for parliament to take up the issue in order to call for the creation of a european civic service or a european solidarity corps. as i said in the plenary, to use volunteering to promote european citizenship is to forget that citizenship is legally and essentially linked to nationality, which bothers them because it prevents them from building a european federal state. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is an admission of their total irresponsibility in managing a disaster they have fostered!
in writing. ‒ the european voluntary service has been in existence for 20 years. during these years, 100,000 young people have participated in this programme and have taken up volunteering activities all over the world. volunteering is an act of citizenship and solidarity which contributes fully to the social and societal integration of individuals. the european union must continue to support voluntary actions such as the european voluntary service. it is important to provide appropriate funding and organisational clarification for european voluntary schemes. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is about improving the european voluntary service. since its creation, about 100 million citizens have participated in voluntary actions in the fields of education, culture, sporting events and humanitarian aid. the resolution considers that the system needs to be deepened so that young europeans can take full advantage of volunteering to gain useful experience in the labour market. meps consider, among other things, that citizens of all ages should be able to benefit from this programme and that a better communication policy on european voluntary offers should be put in place. considering that volunteering is a real opportunity for young people in terms of personal development and employability in the labour market, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in europe, nearly 100 million citizens of all ages are volunteers. i supported this resolution on european voluntary service because it supports the idea of allowing voluntary activities to benefit from eu grants under co-financing and encourages young people to engage in service to others while gaining valuable know-how and experience for the future.
in writing. european voluntary service is an eu initiative that was set up 20 years ago under the erasmus+ programme. it has enabled 100 000 young people aged 17 to 30 to take part in voluntary projects abroad in the fields of culture, environmental protection or social assistance. the quality of supply could be improved by creating more effective support structures and financing solutions at european and national level. because it embodies the european values of solidarity, social integration and personal human development, european voluntary service is a great way to promote european citizenship among young people. the union must promote it.
in writing. ‒ while the development of volunteering is commendable, the european union should not use this issue as a tool to defend an ever more intensive integration policy and strengthen its own competences. in addition, there is a concern that, like erasmus+, volunteering will be diverted to be used as a school for europe's 'future posted workers'. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: politically, it seems complicated to vote against a resolution on volunteering, which is widely considered by the population as a good idea. however, as usual, the european union is using good feelings and laudable ideas as the trojan horse of an ever-deeper integration policy and a strengthening of its powers.
in writing. this year we are celebrating 20 years of the european voluntary service. one hundred million europeans of all ages are volunteers whose work contributes to 5% of europe's wealth. volunteering is a form of solidarity that gives substance to european citizenship by promoting a greater sharing of european values. however, this commitment is weakened by the absence of a legal framework in some member states, including rights and responsibilities, and facilitating the recognition of competences. it is in this context that it would be desirable to adopt a european skills passport or europass which would also make it possible to better recognise skills acquired in informal or non-formal learning. it is in this spirit that i have supported this resolution which also calls on the european commission to make a thorough assessment of its proposed 'european solidarity corps', in particular as regards its added value in relation to the work already undertaken by civil society and its funding, which should not come to cut off the budgets already allocated to other programmes.
in writing. ‒ over time, we have learned to see clearly through the actions of the european union. enough to remind us that once again good feelings are being used here in favour of an integration policy which i consider misleading and excessive. similarly, vigilance requires that efforts be made to ensure that volunteering, like the erasmus+ programme, does not facilitate seconded work in europe. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrea bocskor on the european voluntary service. the european voluntary service enables young people to participate in voluntary projects abroad, fully funded by the european union. this scheme has benefited nearly 100 000 european citizens but is facing management difficulties. the vote on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work was taken on 16 june. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the 'volunteering' covered by this resolution is the trojan horse of a policy of ever-deeper european integration.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on european voluntary service. volunteering is rightly considered a noble and positive thing. however, as usual, the european union is using good feelings and laudable ideas as the trojan horse of an ever-deeper integration policy and a strengthening of its powers. there is also concern that, like erasmus+, volunteering will be diverted to be used as a school for europe's 'future posted workers'. finally, the desire to appeal to the good feelings of the citizens of the member states to manage the refugee crisis in their stead is unacceptable.
in writing. - i abstained on this motion for a resolution. this text sets up a positive initiative to encourage young people to volunteer. this voluntary work makes it easier for them to gain first-hand experience of work, which we very much welcome. however, this motion for a resolution, and european voluntary service as such, raises a number of problems. first, we believe that the european union uses the good feelings of its citizens to strengthen its competences and to push forward its integration policy. in addition, european voluntary service, like several initiatives funded by the eu budget, is one of the sources of fraud used by some companies. finally, we feared that european voluntary work would become a school for europe's 'future posted workers', which we oppose. there are already over 300,000 in france.
in writing. ‒ this resolution supports european voluntary work and voluntary associations. in france, we distinguish between voluntary work, which is by definition unpaid, and voluntary work. the latter involves a commitment for a defined period and a remuneration, at least a disbursement, for civic actions. the resolution encourages european countries that do not yet have such a legal framework to do so, in the interests of volunteers' rights. our programme proposes to go even further and create a genuine compulsory civil service in france. for military tasks but also for tasks of general civil interest (firefighters, environmental protection, etc.) and paid by the smic. but what is problematic about this report is the underlying logic: solving unemployment by promoting volunteering. the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of refugees and to the protection of the rights of the child. the idea put forward by juncker is basically to encourage young people, the population on the galleys, to help other populations on the galleys, through associations, especially those working with migrants. so it's almost free. frontex is beating up the migrants and the young people are putting the bandages on. how deeply unjust! i am voting against, as i will vote against juncker's legislative proposal when it is presented to us.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution follows the statements made by jean-claude juncker in his annual state of the union address of 13 september 2016. it called for the establishment of national legal frameworks for volunteering, for volunteering to be recognised as an informal skill acquired and valued in the context of job search. access to european funds for voluntary organisations would be facilitated. it also stressed the importance of volunteers, particularly in the management of the refugee crisis. he wants the creation of a european civil service. if the idea seems good, as usual, the european union uses good feelings and laudable ideas as the trojan horse of an ever-deeper integration policy and a strengthening of its competences. there is also concern that, like erasmus+, volunteering will be used as a school for europe's 'future posted workers'. finally, the desire to appeal to the good feelings of the citizens to manage the refugee crisis in their stead is unacceptable. consequently, it is not possible to vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on european voluntary service. this scheme, part of the erasmus programme, enables young europeans to participate voluntarily and free of charge in activities in a wide range of fields (sport, culture, etc.) in a country of the european union or a neighbouring country. it has already supported 100 000 volunteers since its creation 20 years ago. in a world with an increasingly globalised economy, it is important for young people to be able to open up to new cultures and to discover new languages.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which calls for a better coordinated eu policy on volunteering, to give volunteers a clear legal status and facilitate their participation. despite the social and economic benefits of volunteering, both for individuals and organisations, participation in european voluntary service remains modest and the remaining obstacles need to be removed. citizens of all ages should be encouraged to benefit from volunteering in order to develop their skills, their understanding of other cultures and their chances of finding a job.
in writing. ‒ the european voluntary service (evs) is a european scheme for young people aged 17 to 30 who take part in volunteering projects in organisations abroad for periods of two weeks to 12 months. the fields of action are varied: culture, environmental protection, educational or social aid, etc. above all, this commitment to service to others is a tool for recognising the learning achieved by the young person concerned. i voted in favour of this resolution which stressed the importance of consistent funding and a clear legal framework for both volunteers and programme managers.
in writing. ‒ at the plenary session of 27 october 2016, i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european voluntary service (evs). the european voluntary service has already supported over 100 000 volunteers in education, culture, sporting events and development aid. it is a real tool for european youth and for the blending of cultures in europe, which must be strengthened and supported. i welcome the fact that this resolution advocates the extension of the evs to all people, regardless of age, to all fields of work and to all destinations, in particular to encourage the mobility of all volunteers in the field of humanitarian crisis management. i also fully support parliament's call for a legal status for the european volunteer. finally, i supported this resolution to encourage the commission to facilitate the rules for the participation of companies and associations, in particular through a simpler application system. the commission will also have to take account of parliament's recommendations to allocate more funds to more ambitious voluntary schemes at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a better coordinated policy on volunteering. european voluntary service allows young people aged 17-30 to participate in projects with organisations abroad for periods ranging from two weeks to 12 months. participation in european voluntary service remains modest, 100,000 young people in the last 20 years; it is therefore urgent that the remaining obstacles be removed. in this respect, the resolution calls on the commission to improve its communication strategy and to facilitate public access to information on the opportunities offered by the european voluntary service. this resolution stresses that european citizens should benefit from volunteering in order to develop their skills and understanding of other cultures and to enhance their employability.
in writing. ‒ the european voluntary service (evs) is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. five years have passed since the european year of volunteering. and yet the questions and the difficulties have changed very little. first of all, i want to denounce once again the confusing englishness in france when we talk about volunteers, we should speak in french about volunteers. this report rightly denounces the communication shortcomings of the evs. a good start would be to ask for all documents concerning him to be translated into all the languages of the union. the text also rightly raises concerns about the conditions in which volunteers work. i welcome the interest in volunteers over 30 years of age, but note that there is no request to extend the evs to all ages. that's too bad. i would also like to support this text when it takes as an example the volunteers who help refugees in europe. these are tasks that should be valued and funded in the framework of the evs. i am voting for this text, although i regret that it lacks the slightest ambition.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it is essential that young people and youth organisations are systematically involved in the development of youth policy. we need to channel investment into inclusive education to ensure equal access and opportunities for all young people, including those from different socioeconomic backgrounds, as well as vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. we must strive for better recognition of skills acquired through non-formal and informal learning, not only because they provide young people with skills and knowledge, but also because they contribute to the personal development of the apprentices.
in writing. ‒ despite some good proposals, i voted against this report which uses youth and education policies to encourage migrants to settle on the european continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is devoted to my main concern since taking up my duties in the european parliament: the scourge of youth unemployment. the findings are clearly disappointing for the period 2013-2015. therefore, the period 2016-2018 should mark a turning point in the union's youth strategy by focusing on the integration of young people into the labour market. learning is one of the ways to go.
in writing. ‒ this resolution seeks to give more power to the european union in youth and education policies, which is an attack on our sovereignty. these policies will be used as a means of promoting the integration of economic migrants, when they should be sent back home. moreover, it is partly because of previous eu strategies on this subject that our young people are now in precarious situations, which is why i voted against, although there are some good aspects to this report.
in writing. ‒ talking about culture in the dark and difficult times we are currently experiencing in france and europe may seem to be a trifle and not a priority for action. but it is not, quite the contrary. it is our young people today who must regain this sense of belonging to a country, a nation, a territory, a western culture, because what unites us above all is culture, this essential element of any society and the foundation of our civilizations. the report we voted on recalls the essential role that european culture must play in our young people. yes, that is true. but culture is also regional and national and it is these three cultures that need to be developed to cope with the globalisation and the americanization of culture among our young people. we have to fight back. you have to be organized. we need our political elites, our teachers, our academics to focus on teaching languages, mathematics, history but also, and this is essential, on art history, which is in my view at least as important as geography, physics or other subjects.
in writing. ‒ despite some good points in the report, i had to oppose this text which aims to give more competence to the eu in youth and education policies, used as a mechanism for the integration of migrants. the eu is suffering from the schizophrenia of the "pyromantic fireman", seeking to extinguish the fire of endemic youth unemployment, which it has itself created through its ultra-liberal policies, its single currency, its posted workers and its immigration "capitalist reserve army". that is why i tabled, on behalf of my group, an alternative motion for a resolution in which i recall that not only education and youth policies are the responsibility of the member states, but also that any strategy in favour of youth will be doomed to failure if we persist in initiatives such as the youth guarantee or the youth employment initiative, which cannot compensate for the effects of austerity policies or the tendency to make young people, through european programmes, future 'posted workers'.
in writing. ‒ the eu's youth strategy has two priorities: to promote the integration of young people into the labour market and to contribute to the social integration of young people into our societies. we share most of the findings of this draft report, which addresses the consequences of brain drain, the mismatch between the skills acquired in higher education and the needs of the labour market, and the entrepreneurial spirit among young people. however, we cannot endorse certain positions defended in this text, in particular those promoting multiculturalism and multilingualism. the report also calls for the mobility of young people within the european union to be promoted in order to tackle the mass unemployment they are suffering. but it is first and foremost the budgetary austerity policies imposed by the european commission and the measures aimed at making the labour market more flexible that have contributed to accelerating the precariousness of young people in our societies. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union's youth strategy has been established for the period 2010-2018. this report aims to assess the framework for cooperation in the youth field and its application by the member states. the strategy has a twofold objective: to facilitate the transition from school to work and to encourage young people to become more involved in society. youth policies are the responsibility of the member states. the european union therefore has only a coordinating, guiding and supporting role in this area. the exchange of good practice between member states needs to be intensified if the strategy is to really bear fruit. it is important to act because young people were and are particularly affected by the economic and financial crisis of 2008. this strategy must be adequately funded. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report builds on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 and aims to set priority objectives to facilitate the transition from school to work and to promote active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity among young people. considering that young people, with their creativity, dynamism and knowledge, represent a valuable human and social capital for the european union, but that at the same time this segment of the population has been hit harder by the economic crisis, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union youth strategy 2013-2015. more than 4.5 million young people (aged 15 to 24) are currently unemployed in the european union. the youth unemployment rate is more than double the overall rate and masks considerable differences between countries. many european initiatives and strategies for youth employment have already been implemented in recent years, but it is essential that the next cycle (2016-2018) contributes to the objectives of the youth strategy. the erasmus+ programme must be fully implemented, particularly in the area of apprenticeships. in addition, the possibilities for traineeships in the other member states of the european union must be improved.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur of this text, who had pointed out that youth was a competence of the member states, is not clear on respect for sovereignty and subsidiarity. in addition, there are some key points, such as the need for intercultural dialogue, the integration of refugees and migrants through education, sport and the fight against xenophobia. it calls for special attention to young people who identify as lgbti, and for the promotion of multilingualism. these include the belief in mobility as a solution to unemployment, and the promotion of the 'european dimension' in education. the text acknowledges the problem of 'brain drain' without addressing its causes. it emphasises the importance of the family in mentoring young people and the support needed for young entrepreneurs. it also supports apprenticeships and vocational training. however, in view of the negative aspects, i preferred to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the rapporteur is not very clear about his intentions on respect for sovereignty and subsidiarity (in particular recitals b and c, paragraphs 1, 2, 26 and 30), although he acknowledges in his explanatory statement that youth is a matter for the member states and that therefore no act taken by the european union can have legislative effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to improve the employability of young people, their integration into the labour market and their social inclusion and participation. in the face of a growing socioeconomic divide and a brutal economic crisis, we have a duty to find lasting solutions to tackle youth unemployment, strengthen social inclusion and prevent violent radicalisation, which requires more systematic cooperation across a range of policies at eu and member state level, for example in the fields of employment and education.
in writing. unemployment, poverty and social exclusion are the challenges facing young people today. the ep also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it for their own purposes. i believe that we must fight for better recognition of learning outcomes in non-formal and informal learning, not only because they provide young people with a good set of skills and knowledge, but also because they contribute to personal development and help to make them engaged, responsible and open-minded citizens. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ although there were some interesting proposals here and there, the uneven content of this report, putting the right side with the wrong, did not finish convincing me. the states must remain sovereign in this area and not accept the schizophrenic policy of the european union, which on the one hand promotes education and employment for young people and on the other produces the conditions of a disastrous economic situation. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrea bocskor on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. this strategy sets out a framework for cooperation to promote equal opportunities for all young people in education and the labour market and to encourage them to participate actively in society. in view of the positive results of the 2010-2018 youth framework, parliament renews its support for this initiative and proposes to involve local and regional authorities in youth policies. it is by bringing decision-making as close as possible to the citizens that we will be able to respond to the needs of young people in the best way. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it aims to give the eu more competence in youth and education policies, which are used as a trojan horse for the integration of migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. there are positive aspects to this text. i am thinking in particular of the proposals to encourage young entrepreneurs to set up their smes and the importance attached to the role of the family in guiding young people and to solidarity between generations. however, there are also the usual europeanist and politically correct remarks in this type of text. these include the call for 'intercultural dialogue' and the promotion of the 'european dimension' in education. the text also reflects the firm belief that mobility would solve the problem of skills mismatch with the labour market and would be a solution to the problem of unemployment, while pretending not to see that this could lead to young people becoming future posted workers.
in writing. - i voted against this text. although the rapporteur recalls in her explanatory statement the reasons why youth remains a matter for the member states and therefore no eu act can have legislative effect, she seems to forget this in the content of her proposal! it wants, for example, the development of youth policies within the european union. the text also calls for better integration of refugees and migrants through education and sport, and encourages the promotion of the 'european dimension' in education. we oppose such ideas.
in writing. ‒ in 120 paragraphs in new european language, this report details the eu's strategy and objectives for youth. it contains good elements: to promote access to the labour market, to erasmus, not to mention that it is now a loan system, to quality education, to invest more and not to make budget cuts. better: the report supports the creation of a guaranteed minimum income between the end of education and the first job, or the rsa (available only from the age of 25). and more generally, he advocates a permanent fund for young people (youth guarantee). but behind these fine words, there is the main objective of turning all young people into 'entrepreneurs' (22 occurrences in the text). the text even proposes to develop 'entrepreneurial learning' as early as the cp class! this is ridiculous. the logic remains to adapt the university to the needs of the private sector and to promote mobility. or the forced exile of millions of young people forced to look for work elsewhere in the face of the austerity crisis. i vote against this useless text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the follow-up to the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. the text calls in particular for better integration of young disabled people into the world of work. more broadly, it sets out a series of principles and elements to be explored in order to better consider the young people who constitute the future of europe (better language learning, the fight against school drop-out, teaching ict to better understand the world today, etc.).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. youth policy is a matter for the member states. the european union cannot legislate on this subject, but acts as a coordinator of initiatives and projects at european level. it is a matter of strongly recalling how essential it is to set up a genuine european framework for cooperation in the youth field, as this will be the necessary condition for the emergence of a lasting european citizenship and increased solidarity between the populations of the european states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the implementation of the youth strategy 2013-2015 and sets out recommendations for the 2016-2018 cycle. it is crucial to ensure that the various programmes dealing with youth policies at union level are properly implemented in order to meet the new needs linked to the socio-educational challenges ahead. in this regard, the union's youth strategy for the next cycle 2016-2018 should focus on tackling early school leaving, promoting youth entrepreneurship, investing in education, traineeships, apprenticeships and vocational training, and facilitating the transition to the labour market. the fight against unemployment must be the priority of the union's action in relation to young people.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to have brought together all the forces of the european left on my report. this vote brings new colours to the common agricultural policy (cap) and to the european project as a whole! this is proof that there is a common vision on the future of agriculture on the left, and that another model of agriculture is possible. despite their fine speeches, it is clear that the national front and the right have not supported a report calling for market regulation, the redirection of aid to family farms or better support for young farmers. there are two models in conflict today: an intensive, productivist and concentrated exploitation model, oriented towards export markets, which is supported by the european right; and a model that emphasizes the recovery of the internal market, food quality, short circuits and family structures, that is the one we are advocating. in any case, the divisions observed within the right and the far right during the vote on my report are proof that neither the right nor the national front have a clear vision of the future of agriculture!
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which has been polluted by the usual claims about migrants and gender issues. in this respect, paragraph 74 which promotes the social and economic integration of migrants and refugees (and their spouses) is unacceptable. moreover, the situation is one of a dual crisis of agriculture and employment.
in writing. ‒ reading this report, i see that the rapporteur has exceeded the initial objective assigned to him by the agri committee in trying to draw up the specifications for a new cap. i also stress this manichean vision of separating the small "good guys" from the big "bad guys". on the contrary, their complementarity is the key to maintaining activity in rural areas. however, i do recognise that the measures to simplify the cap are moving in the right direction. i therefore voted in favour of this report in the hope that it will provide concrete answers to the problems facing our countryside.
in writing. ‒ this report was spoiled by the intervention of the femm and empl committees. they have added unacceptable demands on migrants, whom the european union is once again trying to put before our producers. despite many positive points, including the defence and promotion of pdos and pgi, which i am very keen to support, and the support for smes, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on improving job creation in rural areas through the cap, despite some very positive elements. the amendments tabled by my colleagues from the enl in the committee on agriculture were adopted, which made it possible to include in the report the promotion of local production in public markets and calls for tenders, or to highlight the dangers to our agriculture of the ttip and ceta free trade agreements. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. the latter have in particular transformed a positive report into an immigrationist and pro-gender 'globe-bulga', sacrificing the interests and survival of our farms to libertarian and communitarian ambitions, in particular with the priority given to the integration of migrants and refugees over that of our farmers.
in writing. ‒ this report contains very good ideas such as the defence of pdos, local priority in markets or, indeed, the questioning of free trade agreements. it is unacceptable to add to the need to integrate migrants, in the midst of the agricultural and employment crisis, and to raise gender issues. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the contribution of the cap to employment in rural areas. i fully support the principle of this report, but its contents have been controversial since it was first discussed in committee. this report builds on the systematic opposition of agricultural models to promote a vision of agriculture based on small farms, suspicion of progress and a retreat of europe into itself. the rapporteur has also used this report as a platform to propose his vision of a re-foundation of the cap, mentioning crisis management, volatility, international trade and other subjects, which are indirectly linked to employment but are outside the mandate given for the drafting of this report. although i support many of the ideas put forward in the report, such as crisis management, rebalancing aid between farms and territories and support for niche production, i felt it necessary to oppose this report, which breaks the political balance of the latest reform of the cap and calls into question the foundations of a policy that has only just been put in place with difficulty. our action must promote the stability of public policies, not gas plants.
in writing. i voted against the non-binding text on the contribution of the cap to employment in rural areas. under the guise of promoting employment in rural areas, improving crisis management or rebalancing aid between farms and territories, this text, supported by a left-wing mep, proposes a premature re-foundation of the cap which jeopardises the current balances that have been hard to achieve. i have, for example, opposed the presumption that international trade would automatically be detrimental to employment in agriculture. i regret that a text on such an important subject has been diverted from its main purpose to make it a plea for the left on agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ the report has a commendable plan as it aims to develop jobs in rural areas. however, it proposes a mid-term review of the current cap which is not relevant. reforming now would be tantamount to putting on the back burner the substantive considerations that need to be made when preparing the next cap by 2020. the report also proposes a number of questionable measures. it is turning the cap into a social aid policy, which is not its purpose. he takes positions on trade agreements that go beyond the subject. for these reasons i voted against this report, even though some of the ideas are interesting ideas that need to be explored further.
in writing. between 1957 and today, the agricultural population has fallen from 20% to 4% of the eu's working population; more than one in five farms disappeared in the eu between 2007 and 2013, from 13.6 million to 10.8 million six years later. in the face of this situation, we need a cap that is a real instrument for employment while guaranteeing healthy food that is accessible to the greatest number. this is what my colleague eric andrieu said, and i gave him my full support. among the measures proposed, i would stress the importance of supporting the establishment of young farmers to promote the renewal of generations. in order to make this profession more attractive, my colleague also proposes to reactivate and adapt the tools for regulating markets and combating price volatility, and to put an end to the laissez-faire of markets, which is devastating for farmers, employment and the economy of the territories. by giving greater support to small and medium-sized farms, we will be better able to support employment and sustainable development, as well as more harmonious land use.
in writing. ‒ the proposal has several positive aspects, such as support for small and medium-sized farms, the demand for recognition of the role played by women in the agricultural sector and the rights deriving from it, local priority in markets and employment, and the condemnation of free trade agreements. i am also pleased that our voices have been heard and taken into account in the compromises. however, the femm and empl committees were quick to distort this promising report, particularly through the migration issue. at a time when the agricultural sector is in crisis and unemployment is at record levels, it is intolerable to promote, as required by paragraph 74, the social and economic integration of migrants and their families. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague eric andrieu on the creation of jobs in rural areas through cap funds. the report was originally intended to make the cap contribute to the maintenance and creation of jobs in rural areas, which i encourage, but it has been misused to introduce provisions which are contrary to the spirit of the cap. the report promotes an agriculture that opposes agricultural models (large farms against small ones), is hostile to progress and opposes international trade. despite the provisions for employment, crisis management and the rebalancing of aid between farms and territories, i could not bring myself to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because it contains good and bad provisions. the good news is that it supports family farming (even if it is too late or hypocritical because the cap has ruined it!). the bad news: it extols the benefits of immigration on economic growth and social cohesion, and calls for positive discrimination for migrant workers!
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which examines the contribution of the common agricultural policy (cap) to job creation in rural areas. the report was built on the systematic opposition of agricultural models to promote a vision of agriculture based on small farms, suspicion of progress and a retreat of europe into itself in terms of international trade. the rapporteur has also used this report as a platform to propose his vision of a re-foundation of the cap, mentioning crisis management, the volatility of agricultural prices and other subjects, which are indirectly linked to employment but are outside the mandate given for the drafting of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report entitled 'how can the cap improve job creation in rural areas?' other the text advocates several positive points: support for small and medium-sized farms, the defence and promotion of pdos and pgi, the call for the recognition of the role of women on farms (access to social security, retirement, etc.), local priority in markets and employment, and the questioning of free trade agreements (in their agricultural aspects). unfortunately, this report is tainted by the opinions of the femm and empl committees, which have incorporated the usual demands on migrants. in the context of the double crisis of agriculture and employment, this is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ since 1957, the agricultural population has fallen from 20% to 4% of the european working population. the cap, which has encouraged the intensification of production and the concentration of farms since its inception, has had a negative impact on rural employment. the current cap therefore needs to be reformed to address four challenges: food, environment, climate and land. the report calls on the member states to implement a comprehensive strategy for generational renewal, and to support young farmers accordingly. the text also stresses the need to reactivate and adapt the instruments for regulating markets and combating price volatility, and to put an end to the laissez-faire nature of markets, which is devastating for farmers, employment and the economy of the territories. it also called for priority to be given to direct support for small and medium-sized farms and for innovation, apprenticeship and vocational training to be promoted in order to adapt the skills of the players to the needs of the new agricultural model. i am voting in favour of this text because it contains many proposals which will enable the future cap to regain its full legitimacy and to meet the major challenge of employment.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text has many positive points (efficient support for small and medium-sized farms, defence and promotion of protected designations of origin (pdo) and protected geographical indications (pgi), local priority, etc.), but, moving away from the substantive issues, it takes a position on gender issues and the social and economic integration of migrants and refugees. we oppose these positions in the present context of crisis in the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ like the vast majority of the european parliamentary left (social democrats, ecologists, united left) and unlike the right and the national front, i voted in favour of the andrieu report on the future of the common agricultural policy, which calls for a reform of the cap in a more employment-friendly direction. i share both the diagnosis and the recommended solutions. the text starts with a well-known but still relevant observation: the cap, despite the budgetary envelope at its disposal, is misdirected. it serves productivist and intensive agriculture rather than family farming, promotes export competition rather than short circuits and weakens territorial cohesion and ecosystems. the cap needs to be reformed to respond to these ecological and social challenges (1/5 of european farms disappeared between 2007 and 2013) and to embark on a strategy to renew the generations those under 35 years of age currently represent only 7% of farms. the solutions exist but are neglected by the liberal right at the helm of europe: better regulation of markets, increased support for small farms, promotion of the circular economy. this report calls for a shift towards greater political voluntarism in agricultural matters.
in writing. ‒ this report provides a critical overview of eu agricultural policy. in an integrated approach, it considers that the 'development of the agricultural sector is also linked to the diversification and maintenance of other economic activities, such as forestry and handicrafts, and to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and integrated production capacities, rural tourism, recreational, educational and sporting activities'. this promotes a model based on small farms rather than agro-industry. the report also highlights that 'trade agreements under negotiation such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the eu-mercosur free trade agreement threaten employment and the creation of favourable conditions for farmers'. finally, the report calls for the common agricultural policy (cap) to 'support organic and biodynamic farming more effectively'. i vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report has several positive points: efficient support for small and medium-sized farms, defence and promotion of pdos and pgi, local priority in markets and employment, questioning of free trade agreements (in their agricultural components), willingness to reuse price regulation tools on markets, etc. nevertheless, this report was tainted by the opinions of the femm and empl committees, which therefore incorporated the usual claims about migrants and gender issues. in this respect, paragraph 77 which promotes the social and economic integration of migrants and refugees (and their wives) into rural employment is demagogic, off-topic and therefore unacceptable, all the more so in a dual context of the agricultural and employment crisis. for this reason, and despite the elements of the agreement, the vote will be unfavourable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the contribution of the cap to rural employment. the report is more about the socialist rapporteur's vision of the common agricultural policy than it is about genuine solutions to promote employment, crisis management, rebalancing aid between farms and territories and support for niche producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is important, in the context of the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy, to make it an instrument for employment. tools to regulate markets and combat price volatility must therefore be put in place. finally, i very much share the report's stated aim of 'reterritorialising' agriculture around short circuits and the circular economy.
in writing. ‒ we must ask ourselves what the political motives are behind this non-legislative own-initiative report, which was opposed by a large number of members, with a large number of abstentions. the text is based on a systematic opposition of agricultural models, thus offering an unrealistic view of agriculture, supposedly based on small farms withdrawing into themselves while european agricultural exports are important. we have understood that the socialist rapporteur has used this report to propose a kind of re-foundation of the cap. yet his french socialist colleagues, and particularly stéphane le foll, have been conspicuous in their failure to speak for france in dealing with the unprecedented agricultural crisis in our country. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. like many colleagues, including michel dantin, i was opposed to this text, which promotes a gas-fired plant when our farmers are asking for simplicity and stability to be the keywords of agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the many crises facing the agricultural world, this report addresses the subject of the cap and employment for the first time. it advocated making the cap a genuine instrument for employment, while ensuring that the greatest number of people had access to healthy food. the report proposes to support the establishment of young farmers to promote generational renewal, but also to reactivate, by adapting them, the tools for regulating markets and combating price volatility, and to put an end to the laissez-faire of markets, which is devastating for farmers, employment and the economy of the territories. the aim is clear: to strengthen small and medium-sized farms to better support employment and sustainable development, as well as harmonious land use. as the cap review approaches, this report sets the stage for an agricultural policy that combines rural and modernity: innovation, apprenticeship, vocational training and collective organisation must be used to meet the challenges facing agriculture at the beginning of the 21st century! i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ although there has been much debate on agricultural policy since the treaty of rome in 1957, the employment aspect of the policy had never been discussed until the report by eric andrieu. between 1957 and today, the agricultural population has risen from 20% to 4% of the total labour force in the european union, and more than one in five farms in the eu disappeared between 2007 and 2013. the analysis of eric andrieu, which i share, shows that the cap, by encouraging the outsourcing of production and the concentration of farms, has had a significant negative impact on rural employment and family farming. the report calls for a new social contract between farmers and citizens, which transforms the cap into a genuine instrument for employment, but also for healthy food, accessible to the greatest number. it must also enable young farmers to settle down, to ensure the renewal of farms. in this sense, small and medium-sized farms, which account for a very large share of production and are the most successful in terms of employment and sustainable development, deserve special attention.
in writing. ‒ the report starts from the observation that the economic crisis is particularly affecting rural areas and even more so territories with geographical handicaps. to address this, it calls on states to increase support for the cultivation of plant proteins (for which the eu depends on imports from third countries) and for the cultivation of local species (which contributes to the protection of biodiversity). it also called for the promotion of short supply chains and the development of quality systems, geographical indications and organic farming, which all share the same localised logic. i welcome these proposals and the affirmation, particularly welcome in the present context, of the positive role of migration in stimulating economic growth and social cohesion in rural areas. i would nevertheless like to express my disappointment (but not my surprise) that recital t of the version put to the vote, which stressed the negative consequences that ttip, as the commission itself admits, could have on rural areas by actually harming traditional agriculture, was deleted from the text by a vote of the epp, s&d and alde groups. i voted for it, though.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, mr president, there is an increasing number of criticisms of the ecb's policy in this parliament. we must now take the step of denouncing the very legitimacy of your monetary institution. once again, it is announced that your 1.5 trillion dollar monetary creation (quantitative easing) plan would now be extended until september 2017. your credo is to buy more and more bonds and debt to save the financial markets and the european private banks in difficulty, but nothing is done to revive the productive economy in the euro area. the shackles of your 'single euro currency' force economies to undergo an aberrant monetary policy that is anything but optimal, since all rates are divergent in the euro area. it's an economic heresy, and some savvy economists even call you an arsonist. european countries must be given back control of their monetary instruments so that they can adjust the parity of their currencies to the characteristics and needs of their national economies. the uk does, as does switzerland. the european countries must also be given back control of their national banking systems. in short, we must return to national economic governance "at any cost", to use your expression. to get economic activity back on track, germany must be persuaded to use its budgetary margins to restart the demand engine. finally, mr draghi, do not forget that if you do not want the peoples of europe to overthrow them, you must announce very quickly that you are converting the single currency into a common currency, the ecu.
madam president, mr president, mr vice-president, thank you for being here. the examination of the annual report of the central bank is also the time to take stock of the balance of the european policy mix, and this is the point of the debate that has just begun. mr president, you have said how much this unconventional policy of the central bank has helped to support the activity of the union and, as you know, this parliament, with the report by mr tremosa i balcells, supports the continuation of this unconventional activity of your bank in order to support both demand and the return of inflation in europe. but it is clear that a number of things still need to be examined and improved, including the monetary aspect. first, the question of non-performing loans. at some point i think we will have to ask ourselves whether or not, beyond the work done by supervisors, we need a european framework for thinking or action. as regards my second question, you again mentioned overcapacity, the need for rationality or the lack of profitability in the banking sector. it is a track which you now insist on regularly and which we will have to return to. finally, you mentioned the question of the banking union. we would ask you not to lose faith and to continue to advocate with us in favour of this edis (european deposit guarantee scheme) but also in favour of the final backstop of the second pillar because otherwise we know very well that the considerable steps that have been taken will be weakened. there is one element in the international context that you have not mentioned - so i will gladly mention it - which is the issue of the election of donald trump in the united states and the impact that this will have in terms of interest rate movements. i am sure that your institution is preparing for this, but we also need to have visibility on the european side of how this will or will not impact the european economy. next to you -- you always say this -- you need governments to do the work. in this sense we support one of the proposals you also made in the report by the five presidents in favour of a euro-area budget. here again, we need you to keep your conviction strong to move forward.
mr president, i would not like to be in your shoes. i think you're lucid and you're forced to make a speech you no longer believe in. the euro zone no longer works, there are no comparative advantages, the surpluses of the north no longer go to the south, it no longer makes sense. how can you get away with it if you're already in the illegal business? the only thing that would have been necessary - and you can still do it, but will you? - would have been to introduce quantitative easing aimed only at the countries of the south, to create money not to save a financial system, but to benefit the real economy, to projects that are really profitable. you would not be creating counterfeit money, as you are doing now. you have this opportunity, but if you do not take it, you will be historically responsible for the crisis you have created.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president, thank you for your initiative with this green paper on financial services. i think that my colleague mr ludvigsson's report gives a good analysis of your proposals. the central question now is how to mobilise private savings and put them at the service of a european strategy which is necessarily a long-term investment strategy. i therefore believe that the proposal we are making for a european savings product should be given serious consideration by your commission. i know that low rates do not create a favourable environment for such a proposal, but i think that you would be responding to an aspiration of our fellow citizens and would be providing a means of finding financing for investment in the ecological transition. such progress must also include the issue of consumer protection, which must never be neglected. from this point of view, i hope that we will be able to reach a rapid conclusion on the famous priips legislation that we are trying to reach. however, it is clear, and this is very significant, that operators in different sectors want to be able to compete with each other to collect the savings, but then they do not want to be able to compare their products in an open and transparent way. the legislator and the commission must be very firm in this area. my colleague has been talking a lot about fintech. i am also in favour of fintech, but i think that in this area the supervisors and the european commission must be very vigilant, because i see the development here and there of trading platforms which are sometimes pure scams against which europe must act by mobilising more strongly esma and the competent national authorities. finally, we expect you, when you consider the next proposals for a capital markets union, to bear in mind the commitments you have asked us to make in this green paper. and when that happens, we'll be right there with you to help you move forward.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president, we are discussing here what the basle committee is going to adopt by the end of the month and i think it is very important that you, as vice-president, should be present at this discussion and that you should be able to be the advocate of this parliament, because we know very well that we are the main users - the main beneficiaries, if i may say so - of the basle committee's work. we are the ones who apply these basel standards most seriously and consistently. the voice of the european people must be heard and what we represent as a banking model must be represented. from this point of view, the questioning of the internal model is questionable, because we know very well that many banks in europe use this model effectively and that it makes it possible to refine the financing conditions of the economy. from the point of view of financing the real economy - a subject which should nevertheless be of prime concern when we consider the health of the banking sector - the hearing of mr william coen in the committee on economic and monetary affairs did not give us complete reassurance. i would not like us to engage in a review of the capital of banks which does not take full account of the investment needs of our economies, whether in the housing sector, and therefore on the question of housing loans - which is a subject on which the basle committee is dealing with perhaps with very disruptive effects for this fragile market, at the heart of the recovery of economic activity in many of our countries - or on the question of infrastructure financing, at the heart of the juncker plan strategy which we support, for that matter. finally, i note that in the resolution we are going to vote by a large majority - i hope so - we are again raising the issue of the distribution of dividends by banks which, moreover, appear to be undercapitalised, a matter which must be of concern, mr vice-president, when we are looking for ways of restoring the confidence of citizens in their banking sector.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr vice-president, i am delighted that you are here tonight, because i believe that even if the crowds are not present around you, it is still very important that you take the time, as has been said before, to come and talk to the representatives of the europeans. in the spring we adopted by a large majority an own-initiative report which stressed the need for both transparency and accountability in bodies such as the basel committee. therefore, we greatly appreciate your presence. i also very much appreciate, personally and on behalf of the group, that you have taken very clear and very firm positions on a subject on which we have not always had such clear messages from the commission. the first step was the appointment of mr coen to the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i think we can also welcome his coming, even if, of course, one debate cannot be enough to establish relations of trust. this will have to be followed in the long term by dialogue. today i would like to convey two messages. the first is quite obvious, but i think it needs to be repeated again and again: we are in favour of international cooperation. it is obvious that europe wants to be open and to work with others, but there is no question that this will ultimately translate into a greater impact in europe than in other areas of the world on the financing of the economy. mario draghi told us earlier, in your presence, that we were just beginning to return to pre-crisis growth levels after eight years. so there is really no need to hinder growth in any way, and this will have to be done. we are counting heavily on the commission to work towards reconciling the positions of the member states on this point. i hope that the own-initiative report i have mentioned will be followed up so that both in the council and the commission, between the ecb and the european banking authority, we can better defend the european interests together, without necessarily creating very burdensome procedures, while always ensuring that the financing of the economy is not jeopardised. one last comment on the us elections. i remember that i went to congress last year to get this report. i was very struck by the opposition between the democrats on one side and the republicans on the other, around the dodd-frank act and the volcker rule. it's a little early to tell, but maybe the election of donald trump will impact the way americans view regulation. i would like to see as much as possible, mr vice-president, of europe not being caught up in the basle committee with americans from the previous administration and then having to deal with partners, including from other parts of the world, who would no longer agree to move forward when the time comes to implement. therefore, i ask you to be vigilant, as you have been so far.
mr president, i would simply like to recall the order of the speakers, because i have a colleague who was called and should not have been. i would therefore not like to waste the minute of speaking time i will need for my group.
madam president, commissioner, the prudential rules that the european union has imposed following the basel committee recommendations have helped to hold banks accountable. that's very good. but constantly adding additional constraints would force european banks to lend less or more. the us banks will face less financial regulation and competition will become uneven. it will be all the more so since donald trump has clearly announced that he wants to ease prudential regulation on us banks. what should be the purpose of regulations? it must protect savers and ensure the stability of the system. but the banks continue to speculate. the shadow banking system is flying, leverage and volatility are again a concern. to achieve these objectives of financial protection and stability, the bail-in of the banking union must be abolished and a genuine banking separation must be achieved by splitting the risky market activities, deposit and credit activities in two. this is the exact opposite of what the european union is doing. that is why the peoples need and want a return to control of the financing of their economies through policies of economic patriotism.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2016. (the sitting was suspended for a moment) _______________1 see minutes of the sitting
the agenda calls for the report by urmas paet on the european defence union (2016/2052(ini)) (a8-0316/2016).
madam president, european defence is meaningless if it is not based on europe's independence and its own foreign policy. independence means autonomy and sovereignty. at the moment, there was only one country in europe that was in this policy, and that was france, and russia. to want to align european policy with nato's policy means to want to share the aggressive and senseless policy that has brought us to where we are. in fact, that policy has changed. so we too need to change. it is not serious not to want an independent and sovereign europe and in that case there is only one country which continues to want that independence and sovereignty, and that is my country. i would like to say that we have never shared such an objective in the process of european integration. it is the failure of european defence because of alignment with nato policy.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2016. the competent authorities shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by keith taylor, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the exploitation of the potential of passenger transport by water (2015/2350(ini)) (a8-0306/2016).
madam president, since 2011, the european commission and parliament have joined forces to increase transparency through a register of interest representatives who can access the institutions. this is a commendable effort that should be strengthened by the revision of 28 september. unfortunately, a whole category of influential groups is exempt from these obligations. churches and religious communities are simply exempt from registration. these organisations already have, by virtue of article 17 of the treaty, privileged access to the european institutions. the minimum would be that they should be subject to the same transparency obligations. as co-chair of the european parliament's platform for secularism, i have seen in our meetings the presence of certain extremist groups, such as civitas, or sectarian groups, such as the church of scientology, and the loopholes created by this revision can only strengthen their ability to influence our decisions. we know how strong they are in this area, and we do not need anyone to make it easier for them. so, if we cannot protect our institutions from the influence of religious groups, let us expose their practices. too many rights, too many freedoms are at stake to maintain the darkness. it is up to us to shine the light and make transparency the rule.
mr president, commissioner, once again the european semester is a failure. the majority of countries have never complied with the rules of the stability and growth pact and the commission still dares not do anything about germany's huge budgetary and trade surplus. it's easier to be strong with the weak than weak with the strong. let germany set an example and pay its historic debt to greece. your policy of economic and budgetary coordination continues to produce the same result: macroeconomic indicators are still in the red. this explains the inexorable rise of euroscepticism, but you continue to run ahead in a frantic race. mr moscovici is even going to the french regions to spread your propaganda about the economic benefits of the european union. despite the disastrous record of permanent destruction of wealth and jobs, you want to try economic federalism and, moreover, every commissioner already dreams of becoming a finance minister in the euro zone. what a sham to see that the french budget for 2017 has been judged by your services to be broadly in line, when everyone knows that it is only a fanciful budget based on unrealistic economic statistics. the same causes will produce the same effects: mass unemployment, austerity which kills domestic demand, free trade, the laxity of the ecb, the lax attitude of the states towards multinational corporations and private banks, privatisation, deregulation of the labour market and mass immigration. this whole policy will lead europeans to bankruptcy! your european semester is only a palliative. as long as you keep the euro as a single currency, we will have austerity!
mr president, mr vice-president, i think the commission is slowly but surely, i hope, beginning to make a turn. i see two reasons for this, two facts that mark this turning point. the first is the recognition that spain and portugal have taken effective measures and that a suspension of the structural funds is not necessary. i believe that parliament's action in this respect has been decisive and i welcome that. let us continue this structured dialogue with effective results. the second fact is that the communication on the aggregate position of the euro area and the recommendation on the euro area, along with the renewal of the juncker plan, acknowledges that the aggregate position is essential if we are to stimulate growth and support investment at the level it needs to be. for this reason, i also believe that the message that the president of the european central bank sends day after day - and he did it again yesterday - that monetary policy needs to be supported by an aggressive aggregate budgetary position is a good one. but if we welcome both of these elements in your annual growth review for 2017, then there are two consequences to be drawn from this when it comes to the specific recommendations of the euro area. firstly, we do not want any structural reform. we want 'new generation' structural reforms, which stimulate human capital, for example. we also want to see all the tax consequences taken into account, in particular to support investment, but also to combat inequalities more effectively, which remain a major concern. finally, in the medium term, the consequences of this analysis will also have to be drawn. firstly, the stability pact needs to evolve and, above all, the road map which you must put in place with the white paper on the reform of the european union at 27 must not overlook the need for budgetary capacity for the euro area and for the completion of the tools enabling economic and monetary union to serve effectively the interests of the countries in the area. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i did not know that i was dealing with an expert in national politics. i find that, sunday after sunday, or thursday when people vote on thursday, we go from surprise to surprise and that the result of last sunday does not forbid another surprise for tomorrow. i also note that it was at the initiative of france that the debate on investment and the completion of the banking union was able to take its full dimension in the european debate, and i welcome this.
mr president, mr vice-president, i am pleased, as other speakers have said before me, to point out that you have adopted an aggregated approach this year, which seems to be a good thing because, in fact, what matters most is that we are concerned with the interest of the euro area as a whole. in this respect, i want to say, as one of the former six-pack rapporteurs, how disappointed i am with your use of it - well, when i say 'you', i'm not sure i'm speaking to the only person who is, in this case, being referred to, since it is the college that makes the decisions. the intention of the legislator, when we drew up the six-pack, was to make the rules less likely to be interpreted, not to say twisted, in terms of political compromise or compromise. i would like to remind you, as a frenchman, that article 6 of the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen, the great declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of the late 18th century, simply states that 'the law must be the same for all'. i would really like, as a pro-european frenchwoman, that the commission actually adheres to a reading that does not give gifts to countries because they are supposed to be big. greatness is about keeping your promises. secondly, there is the impression in this debate - and you have seen the crowds that this brings together in this parliament - that each one is not really addressing other europeans but his own public opinion. we are beginning to see the evils of a double demagogy. in some countries, the demagogy is to insist on the strict application of the rule without regard for the consequences, and in others, there are supporters of flexibility who eventually lose sight of the fact that the purpose of having rules was to have rules. there has been a great change in europe between the time when everyone was trying to come and contribute something to the european construction and the one we live in, where everyone is making demagogy in the use of his own opinion. therefore, mr vice-president, i cannot encourage you enough to stand firm and look closely at the laws on finance, even when they conceal a number of pitfalls because, in the end, growth and employment will only come from sound public finances and done in a spirit of humanity and flexibility, but without complacency.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for too long tax has been the adjustment variable of those, individuals and multinationals, who benefit from globalisation. for too long, too, governments have turned a blind eye to what we might call "the crime of tax evasion". the international financial system, as well as trade relations - we have often spoken about this here - are being affected by huge flows of money laundering and tax evasion. the two phenomena often follow the same path, and only a major effort to increase transparency can combat these public revenue scourges. it is precisely this spirit that has guided the reform project we are discussing today. firstly, the new directive on combating money laundering and terrorist financing will bring a substantial improvement to european policy on this matter. it will provide new tools, including - and this was much anticipated - a central and comprehensive register of all beneficial owners of companies and trusts. this information will be collected in each state by specific intelligence units. in the interests of clarity and efficiency, which we parliamentarians share, the commission, in the person of pierre moscovici - whose efforts, which i welcome here, have never been denied, together with the members of parliament, in trying to combat this scourge of tax evasion - has considered that the tax authorities of each state should have direct and horizontal access to this data, and in particular to the central register i mentioned earlier. this is the measure which is being discussed today and which will be implemented in the framework of the union's administrative cooperation directive. the initiative deserves our support. it is clear that our tax authorities must be able to obtain directly the information they need in their investigations. we have been working with our colleagues in the econ committee to ensure that this is the case, but we would like to add one more point. it is unanimously agreed, and as the commission itself admits in its communications, that the most effective weapon for us in the face of these phenomena of a globalised nature is the automatic and compulsory exchange of information between states. i wanted, together with all the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i thank here, to propose that information be shared between european states. a very simple example helps to illustrate the crucial issue. in order to prosecute cases of tax evasion by french or german taxpayers, for example, the tax authorities in our countries have a crucial need to know whether they are hiding behind trusts or letterbox companies in another member state. it is therefore important that that other member state has access to that information and provides it to france or germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the draft therefore also makes the reform consistent with its instrument, the administrative cooperation directive, which is an instrument for sharing information between states. that's what we're offering you. i would add one last point. in tax matters, as you know, the council always has the last word. the council has always been a party to the european convention on human rights, and it is not the council that has been the party to the convention. i think that this must stop and if the vote is as unanimous as possible - which is what i want - then we will send a clear message to the council. it is time to reaffirm to our fellow citizens, who are rightly outraged by what is happening with the tax evasion cases, that we want to make this fight for a fairer redistribution a top priority. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you also to the fictitious rapporteurs who have been very helpful.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the maurel report has the merit of demonstrating the european union's determination to combat tax evasion. i particularly welcome its objective of improving the exchange of information between the tax authorities of the member states. however, i doubt that the fight against tax evasion is really a top priority for the union, as the report says. it took repeated scandals involving commissioners or former commissioners for the union to start moving: swissleaks, luxleaks, panama papers, bahamasleaks, until the next brussels papers or turkishleaks. the european central bank cannot be relied upon to supervise the morality of banks, because the european court of auditors has just revealed that it is plagued by serious conflicts of interest. in this connection, it is surreal that amendment no 9 in the report asks the commission to analyse - and i quote - 'the possible role of the banking system in facilitating money laundering'. the involvement of banks is not a hypothesis but a certainty revealed by the panama papers scandal. the commission's responsibility for monitoring them is like putting the wolves in the hands of their pack leader. in this connection, i would like to end by recalling that in reply to the question i put last week in brussels, the nobel prize winner in economics, joseph stiglitz, described jean-claude juncker as 'the architect of tax evasion in europe'.
the rapporteur. madam president, i will conclude very quickly because this has been a very rich and very interesting debate. i am glad, however, because it is not so common that parliament is unanimous in sending a number of clear messages to the council, firstly because - as you have rightly understood, commissioner - it is becoming quite unbearable for members of parliament that, on these specific taxation issues, the council always manages to try to circumvent our opinion or to pretend not to hear it. that is not the case with you, and what is also comforting for you and for us is that there is support from members of parliament on all benches in this house for your undeniable action - as i said earlier - to move towards greater tax justice and, at the same time, a form of demand. that is why we have been insisting tirelessly, whether on the right or on the left of this house, on the need for automatic exchange of information because, as my colleague peter simon has very well said - and i believe in the discussion - we have seen in the tax returns that if there were no such requirement, the states would not be doing their minimum job. finally, and i will end with this, i really thank the members for the quality of this debate. to those who are hesitant, to those who are doubtful and say 'yes, but europe cannot go any faster and any further than other countries in the world', i would like to remind you of the excellent hearing we had with the nobel prize winner, mr stiglitz. he may not be a master thinker, but he said something that i think is essential. he said that in tax matters - and this is very important - europe alone can bring about great progress for the world. from this point of view, it was a great encouragement to continue our work.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with ukraine. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. in addition, the conclusion of this agreement is part of the more or less vague perspective of ukraine's potential accession to the european union. we are opposed to this idea. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. of course, this agreement is part of the prospect of ukraine's accession to the european union: i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol should make it possible to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious forms of crime. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. in addition, the agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data and this poses a risk to the privacy of the persons i refuse to meet. finally, this agreement is seen by the eu as a prerequisite for ukraine's accession to the eu, as is the case with many previously presented agreements. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to strengthen operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol in order to improve the effectiveness of the fight against serious forms of crime. the terms of this cooperation provide for exchanges of information including expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods. however, the agreement also includes exchanges of personal data; it is also part of the negotiations for ukraine's accession to the european union. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text for the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. while ukraine is an indispensable partner country in the eastern partnership framework, we need to strengthen our cooperation in order to tackle organised crime and terrorism. strategic cooperation between europol and ukraine should, in particular, allow us to strengthen our action in the fight against trafficking in human beings. we must therefore encourage the exchange of information in order to be able to dismantle the smuggling networks.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this is the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between the european commission and europol. the exchanges of information envisaged range from information needed to combat organised crime but extend to exchanges of personal data, which we would not be able to accept. moreover, we cannot accept an agreement which is a prerequisite for ukraine's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ vote against: unacceptable agreement, it is in line with the prospect of ukraine's potential accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament has authorised the conclusion of a technical, strategic and operational cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol. this cooperation is all the more important as ukraine can be a key partner in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime such as document fraud, which amplifies illegal immigration to europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mariya gabriel on cooperation between ukraine and europol. europol's mission is to facilitate the exchange of information between european police forces. in this case, it is a matter of strengthening cooperation with ukraine in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and the fight against other serious forms of crime. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to support the action of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing terrorism, organised crime and other serious forms of crime. the operational and strategic agreement between ukraine and the european police office (europol) includes provisions on the exchange of personal data, and it further extends our cooperation with third countries for the security of europeans, which is essential in these difficult times.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. this agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data of french citizens, which i consider unacceptable. in addition, the conclusion of this agreement is part of the wider perspective of ukraine's potential accession to the european union. i am opposed to that. i am in favour of greater international cooperation between police services, but this cooperation must remain intergovernmental.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. it is true that it aims to increase efficiency in preventing and combating serious crime. in this context, operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and the european transnational police agency europol provides for exchanges of information, expertise, results of strategic analyses, etc. however, this agreement also allows for the exchange of personal data, which i am strongly opposed to. finally, this text is part of the - underground - perspective of ukraine's potential accession to the european union, which is not desirable.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the purpose of this report is to give the european parliament's agreement to operational cooperation between europol and ukraine. in reality, it is the exchange of personal data of europeans. this report thus directly concerns the security of french citizens' data. that is why we are opposed to it. in addition, this report is part of a broader approach to developing close cooperation between the european union and ukraine, with a view to its potential future accession. this idea also causes our greatest reservations.
in writing. ‒ parliament is here consulted on the approval of a cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol, the european police office. at a minimum, it should be ensured that the countries with which the eu concludes such agreements offer all guarantees of respect for the rule of law, in particular with regard to the judicial system. especially when it comes to exchanging personal data of citizens like this. the present ukraine, co-governed by neo-nazis, is far from providing such guarantees. such cooperation is therefore a purely geopolitical choice which i do not approve of. i have opposed similar agreements in the past, particularly with the united arab emirates. the council is pushing for all these agreements with third countries before the end of 2016 in order to give europol full latitude for 2017 when its new regulation will come into force, which will pose an even greater threat to the security of our personal data. europol collects personal data arbitrarily in europe and may refuse to disclose it to the citizens concerned who request it. the scandal of the giant spy revelations by the nsa and the german authorities of the governments and european institutions will therefore have served nothing for brussels. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol is in fact the conclusion of an agreement between the two parties. this agreement provides for exchanges of information including expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. in addition to these exchanges of information, there are also provisions on the exchange of personal data. as i am opposed to the disclosure of personal data, i opposed this agreement which is also being made in the more or less hidden perspective of a potential accession of ukraine to the european union.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with ukraine. the terms of cooperation shall provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. in addition, the conclusion of this agreement is part of the more or less vague perspective of ukraine's potential accession to the european union. we are opposed to this idea.
in writing. ‒ this agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data, which is unacceptable. moreover, the conclusion of this agreement is part of the more or less vague perspective of ukraine's potential accession to the european union, which i oppose. i therefore vote against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. it aims to support the action of the member states' authorities in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. at a time when crime is increasingly cross-border, it is essential to strengthen cooperation between judicial authorities within the european union.
in writing. ‒ the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. in addition, the conclusion of this agreement is part of the more or less vague perspective of ukraine's potential accession to the european union. i am firmly opposed to this prospect and therefore vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. the exchange of information will enable the eu member states and ukraine to prevent organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime. the fight against these phenomena is a constant struggle.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with ukraine. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. in addition, the conclusion of this agreement is part of the more or less vague perspective of ukraine's potential accession to the european union. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jalkh is justified only on partisan grounds, for the following reasons: the fact that the present request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same parliamentarian, whereas these cases relate to events that occurred at different times; the fact that it is alleged that the present request for waiver of immunity follows a judicial inquiry opened by the prosecutor's office of the high court of nanterre against mr jalkh, which is false, since it was a complaint against x; the fact that the present application concerns an element of the national front's programme which has never been challenged by the courts in the 44 years of its existence: national preference. i therefore voted against this request for waiver of immunity which is a gross partisan manoeuvre.
in writing. - fumus persecutionis. - what is it?
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of immunity is part of a prosecution by the public prosecutor of the republic of nanterre against jean-françois jalkh as the publishing director of the website frontnational.com. a short practical guide for the fn candidate and the fn elected person was published on the website of the fn 66 federation, advising fn councillors to apply for national preference in municipal councils. this guide also existed in paper form. in my view, this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is indeed a fumus persecutionis for several reasons, including the fact that this request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same parliamentarian, although these cases concern events that occurred at different times, but also the fact that it is claimed that this request for waiver of immunity is the result of a judicial information opened in the prosecutor's office of the high court of nanterre against mr jalkh, which is false, since it was a complaint against x and other reasons. i therefore naturally voted against and supported my colleague.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is indeed a fumus persecutionis. it should be noted first of all that after more than two years of investigation, the judiciary still pretends not to know that jean-françois jalkh is not the director of the publication of the front national website of the eastern pyrenees. in addition, it is essential to recall that this request for waiver of immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same parliamentarian, although they relate to events that occurred at different times. finally, this request concerns an element of the national front's programme which has never been challenged by the courts in the 44 years of the existence of this political party, namely the establishment of a national preference for our compatriots in terms of access to work, housing and social benefits. i therefore voted against this outrageous request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this request for waiver of immunity concerns the post of director of publications of jean-françois jalkh of the website of a federation of the front national. in this case, the site encouraged city councillors to call for national preference measures. on paper, jean-françois jalkh was indeed the director of publication of the front national website but not of the websites of its federations. in essence, this is a challenge to a programmatic element which the front national has always defended in its 44 years of existence.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague konstantínos chrysogonos on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. the examination of the case showed that the facts alleged against mr jalkh were unrelated to his parliamentary mandate and therefore allowed the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh because the charge against him is not related to the exercise of his mandate. the case concerning him as the director of publications for the websites of the front national is particularly serious, linked to complaints lodged against statements contained in an online brochure.
in writing. - we are dealing with a typical case of political persecution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. obviously, i cannot condone such practices. i therefore voted against the request for waiver of immunity, as did the whole of our group.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. mr jalkh is concerned as the director of the publication of the frontnational.com website, because of a paper and digital publication of the fn 66 federation prior to his election. this priority of the facts and the absence of a link between his function as director of publications of the national website and the publications of the departmental federations are very questionable. furthermore, on the substance, prosecuting an elected official who calls on his peers to change existing legislation is a serious undemocratic drift, especially when it is a position defended by the party since its creation. this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is indeed a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the parliamentary immunity of the far-right mep jean-françois jalkh to be lifted. jean-françois jalkh is being prosecuted following a complaint by the association "la maison des potes" for having, in the "small practical guide of the municipal "elected national front", encouraged to privilege the french ("national priority") in the "access to social housing". the charges are clearly not related to the office of jean-françois jalkh as an mep since the statements in question were addressed to candidates for the office of municipal councillor in the municipal elections of 23 and 30 march 2014. i vote for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity, concerning jean-françois jalkh, comes from the prosecutor of the republic of nanterre who is prosecuting mr jalkh, as the director of the publication of the website frontnational.com, on the grounds that in a practical guide for the fn candidate and elected member it is asked for fn elected members to claim national preference in municipal councils. this guide has been published on the website of the front national of the pyrénées-orientales. after two years of investigation, the judiciary still pretends not to know that mr jalkh is not the director of the publication of the website of the federation of the pyrénées-orientales, nor of the paper publications of the front national. moreover, this request for waiver of immunity concerns an element of the front national's programme which has never been challenged in court since the front national's existence. this request arose from the fact that the french judiciary had been persecuting members and elected representatives of the front national, and i therefore opposed it.
in writing. ‒ this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity has undoubtedly a political dimension, since it follows proceedings against fn member of parliament jean-françois jalkh for publishing, on the local website of an fn federation of which he was not the director of publication, an appeal for national preference. this claim cannot be supported.
in writing. ‒ i object to this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity, which relates to the persecution, for the following reasons: - the fact that after more than two years of investigation, the court of justice still pretends to ignore that mr jalkh is not the director of the publication of the fn 66 website or the publications of the front national; - the fact that this request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same parliamentarian, although these cases relate to events that occurred at different times; - the fact that it is claimed that this request for waiver of immunity is the result of a judicial information opened by the grand chamber of the court of justice of nanterre against mr jalkh, which was false, and therefore a complaint against him; - the fact that the present application relates to an element of the national front's programme which has never been challenged by the courts in the 44 years of the party's existence.
in writing. ‒ to prosecute elected representatives on the pretext that they are calling for a change in existing legislation in their programme is an extremely dangerous undemocratic drift, since it is a particularly serious infringement of freedom of opinion. i am of course supporting my colleague jean-françois jalkh in this case and voting against the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is a fumus persecutionis, a perfume of persecution, for the following reasons: the fact that after more than two years of investigation, the justice department still pretends to ignore that mr jalkh is not the director of the publication of the fn 66 website or the paper publications of the front national; the fact that this request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same member of parliament, whereas those cases relate to events occurring at different times; the fact that it is alleged that the present request for waiver of immunity follows a judicial inquiry opened by the prosecutor's office of the high court of nanterre against mr jalkh, which is false, since it was a complaint against x; the fact that the present application relates to an element of the national front's programme which has never been challenged by the court of justice in the 44 years of the party's existence. i therefore naturally support my colleague jean-françois jalkh in opposing the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. ‒ this second request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of member jf jalkh is motivated only by partisan reasons. this request is totally disproportionate in that mr jalkh has never claimed that he would avoid being summoned by the investigating judge if his immunity were waived. a simple summons or a simple summons would have been sufficient. i therefore voted against this unjustified waiver of immunity.
in writing. - fumus persecutionis. - what is it?
in writing. ‒ this other request for waiver of immunity concerns prosecutions by the paris public prosecutor against jean-françois jalkh as the director of the publication of the frontnational.com website, in particular because of an interview of 6 june 2014 by mr. jean-marie le pen, questioned about mr. yannick noah and mr. patrick bruel, which was published on his blog hosted by the frontnational.com website. because of its inconsistency with the communication policy of marine le pen, the interview was immediately removed from the site and the blog of mr jean-marie le pen was no longer hosted by the fn website. this request for waiver of immunity is a persecution, as in the previous one, with similar explanations, but also because mr jalkh has never claimed to want to evade a summons from the investigating judge or because it is totally contrary to the fundamental democratic principle of equality of persons before the law, since the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity of the main author of the incriminated speech, mr le pen, is not at all justified by the need to issue a warrant. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in an interview on his blog on june 6, 2014, jean-marie le pen was asked about yannick noah's promise to leave france if marine le pen won the presidential election and patrick bruel's refusal to perform in municipalities run by the national front, before concluding: "next time, we will make a batch.... because of its inconsistency with the communication policy of the president of the front national, this interview was immediately removed from the site. moreover, jean-marie le pen's blog was no longer hosted by the front national website following the case. jean-françois jalkh is being prosecuted by the paris public prosecutor as the director of the publication of the site. this request is totally disproportionate in that mr jalkh has never stated that he wished to avoid being summoned by the investigating judge in the event of his immunity being waived. i therefore opposed the waiver of his parliamentary immunity, which is a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. - i voted against this report. an interview by jean-marie le pen on his blog hosted by the website frontnational.com on 6 june 2014 focused on yannick noah's promise to leave france in case of a victory of the national front and on patrick bruel's refusal to perform in front national municipalities. the need for a warrant is questionable in form, since mr jalkh has never claimed to have evaded justice. furthermore, mr jalkh was indeed the director of the publication at the time of the online launch, but left this position shortly afterwards in view of his european mandate. finally, the video in question was removed from the site very quickly.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the two requests for waiver of immunity of my colleague jean-françois jalkh. they are in fact the usual double standards applied by this assembly, which is quick to protect the meps and to hand over the others to the (injustice of) their country. even if parliament claims not to judge on the merits, it does so, particularly in cases of alleged offences relating to political expression. as for the form it claims to respect, it went very far in denying, with mr jalkh's case ignoring the fact that one of the requests for waiver of immunity was made for the express purpose of issuing a warrant to bring. however, in the case of press offences, the latter are not legal in france. finally, to allow the persecution of a member of the european parliament on the grounds that he had not yet been elected to parliament at the time of the facts is an argument of rare hypocrisy: it is indeed the desire to impede the member in his parliamentary activity and his reputation that motivates many lawsuits, especially in france.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of jean-françois jalkh's immunity because the charge against him is in no way related to the exercise of his mandate. the case concerning him as the director of publication of the websites of the front national is particularly serious, related to complaints filed against the video of mr le pen calling for a "furnace" for personalities.
in writing. ‒ in an interview on 6 june 2014 on his blog hosted by frontnational.com, mr. jean-marie le pen was asked about mr. yannick noah's promise to leave france in case of a victory of the national front, and about mr. patrick bruel's refusal to perform in fn municipalities. and to conclude: "next time, we'll make a batch"... because it was not in line with the communication policy of the new fn president, marine le pen, this interview was removed from the site. moreover, jean-marie le pen's blog was no longer hosted by the national front website following the case. jean-françois jalkh is being prosecuted by the paris public prosecutor as the director of the publication of the website frontnational.com. that request is disproportionate, since mr jalkh has never claimed that he would avoid being summoned by the investigating judge if his immunity were waived. a simple summons or a simple summons would have been sufficient. so i objected to his waiver of immunity.
in writing. - i voted against the waiver of the immunity of jean-françois jalkh. mr jalkh is concerned as the director of publication of frontnational.com, because of a publication hosted on this site, although it was removed on the day of its hosting, and that these facts predate his election. this prior nature of the facts, the fact that the paris public prosecutor motivates his request for waiver of immunity by the need to issue a warrant for arrest (a disproportionate request, contrary to the procedure in the case of a press offence), and the fact that only one complaint against x was treated as a complaint against mr jalkh, demonstrate that this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity does indeed fall within the scope of a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the parliamentary immunity of the far-right mep jean-françois jalkh to be lifted. jalkh is being prosecuted following a complaint by the national bureau for vigilance against anti-semitism (bnvca) in august 2014. the complaint concerns statements made by jean-marie le pen in an interview broadcast on the website "frontnational.com", in which he allegedly said about patrick bruel: "it's not surprising. look, we'll make a batch next time. considering that jean-françois jalkh was the director of publications of the official website of the front national, he can be held responsible for the comments published on this website. since the charges are not related to his mandate as an mep but to his position as director of publications of the national front, responsible for the editorial control of all websites of the federation, i vote for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh comes from the public prosecutor of the republic of paris who is suing mr jalkh, as the director of publication of the website frontnational.com, on the grounds that an interview by jean-marie le pen was published in june 2014 during which he pronounced the word "provided" the paris prosecutor justifies this request for waiver of immunity by the need to issue a warrant to bring. this is disproportionate since j-f. jalkh has never stated that he would avoid a summons from the investigating judge if his immunity were lifted. this request arose from the fact that the french judiciary had been persecuting members and elected representatives of the front national, and i therefore opposed it.
in writing. ‒ this second request for waiver of immunity, for a publication on the front national website of the remarks of its honorary president, is clearly motivated by a political motive, which is not a valid cause for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i object to this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity, which relates to the persecution, for the following reasons: - the fact that after more than two years of investigation, the court of justice still pretends to ignore that mr jalkh is not the director of the publication of the fn 66 website or the publications of the front national; - the fact that this request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same parliamentarian, although these cases relate to events that occurred at different times; - the fact that it is claimed that this request for waiver of immunity is the result of a judicial information opened by the grand chamber of the court of justice of nanterre against mr jalkh, which was false, and therefore a complaint against him; - the fact that the present application relates to an element of the national front's programme which has never been challenged by the courts in the 44 years of the party's existence.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is indeed a fumus persecutionis, a scent of persecution, for the following reasons: the fact that this request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same parliamentarian, whereas these cases concern events that occurred at different times; the fact that the paris public prosecutor bases his request for the waiver of mr jalkh's parliamentary immunity on the need to issue a warrant for arrest, whereas, in the matter of the press, the investigating chamber of the paris court of appeal has already had the opportunity to censure the issuing of a warrant for arrest (paris court of appeal, judgment of 15 may 2009, case no 2008/06790); the fact that some may claim that the present request for waiver of immunity follows from a judicial information filed against mr jalkh at the paris court of first instance, or from a complaint against mr jalkh before the chief investigating judge, which is false in both cases, since it was a complaint against x. i support my colleague in this case and i vote against his immunity being waived.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity falls within the scope of a fumus persecutionis, a scent of persecution, for the following reasons: the fact that this request for waiver of mr jalkh's immunity was signed on the same day (14 april 2016) by the french minister of justice in two cases involving the same parliamentarian, whereas these cases relate to events that occurred at different times; the fact that the paris public prosecutor's request to waive mr jalkh's parliamentary immunity was motivated by the need to issue a summons. that request is totally disproportionate in that mr jalkh has never claimed that he would avoid being summoned by the investigating judge if his immunity were to be waived. a simple summons or a simple summons would have been sufficient. this request is, above all, totally contrary to the fundamental democratic principle of the equality of persons before the law, since the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the principal author of the offence, mr jean-marie le pen, is not at all justified by the need to issue a warrant for arrest. so there are two weights, two measures. i naturally give my full support to my colleague jean-françois jalkh.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text in order to ensure, in particular, greater legal certainty for union fishermen. the court of justice of the european communities has supported the european parliament in stating that multiannual fisheries management plans, taken as a whole, constitute policy choices which should be decided on in the ordinary legislative process, in accordance with article 43 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is the legal basis of the treaty of lisbon for measures pursuing the objectives of common policies in the field of agriculture and fisheries. following that judgment, our socialist group has contributed constructively to the rapid development of a revised cod-fishing plan which is fully in line with the principles of the reformed cfp and can enter into force on 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ council regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 was adopted before the entry into force of the tfeu and therefore confers decision-making powers on the council (articles 10 and 11). as the tfeu no longer allows for this possibility, the commission has therefore suggested an amendment to that regulation. the proposal is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the regulation. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. in substance, the old 2008 plan contained a complicated system of fishing effort (days at sea) that did not allow the stocks to be restored. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ council regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 was adopted before the entry into force of the tfeu and therefore confers decision-making powers on the council (articles 10 and 11). as the tfeu no longer allows for this possibility, the commission has therefore suggested an amendment to that regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the 2008 regulation, which seems to me to be in the right direction, both for the conservation of cod stocks and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008. the principles of the new fisheries policy seem to us to be designed to preserve marine biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008, which was adopted before the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), confers decision-making powers on the european council. since the tfeu no longer allows for this possibility, the european commission wanted to suggest an amendment to this regulation. the main purpose of this proposal is to clarify the provisions of the regulation and to implement the principles of the new common fisheries policy. i voted in favour of this amendment to the directive which should help to rebuild cod stocks.
in writing. ‒ this report strengthens cooperation between scientists and fishermen for cod stock management and allows a change in the calculation of effort to limit fishing pressure. the precise list of fishing gear authorised for cod catching simplifies the legislation. the gradual landing obligation as adopted in the reform of the common fisheries policy now applies to cod. in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield, a range of fishing mortality values is allowed to bring cod stocks to the maximum sustainable yield. i welcome the adoption of this report in codecision following an interinstitutional conflict which has strengthened parliament's powers as legislator.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the proposal for a new regulation amending the 2008 long-term plan for cod stocks, presented by the european commission in september 2012. the aim of this proposal is to adapt the existing rules by fixing tacs for stocks for which there is insufficient information and to strengthen the measures relating to discards. i have supported this report because i believe that, in the context of a rational use of natural resources, it is necessary to limit the system of discharges as much as possible.
in writing. the european union has a responsibility to ensure the profitability of the fisheries sector while ensuring the reproductive capacity of stocks. the previous cod stock management regulation proved to be inadequate to the european objectives of sustainable exploitation of stocks. i therefore supported the amendment of that regulation to bring the cod stock management plan into line with the requirements of the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy. the new regulation simplifies the rules on fishing opportunities and ends the fishing effort management system which prevented the proper application of measures against by-catches.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the proposal essentially aims to improve and clarify the provisions of regulation 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 by implementing the new common fisheries policy, taking note of the fact that the old system did not allow for the return of stocks.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the proposal is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the regulation. in substance, the old 2008 plan contained a complicated system of fishing effort (days at sea) that did not allow the stocks to be restored.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the cod stock report takes account of the imperative need to ensure a future for future generations of fishermen. i am therefore pleased that this report focuses on cooperation between the scientific community and fishermen to improve the sustainable management of cod stocks. i would, however, call for full compliance by fishermen of all nationalities, because unfair competition by some is slowly killing the profession as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague diane dodds on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting them. the purpose of this text is to amend the fishing rules established by the 2008 codfish plan. in order to give fishermen more flexibility, the fishing effort management system is to be abandoned and the rules on the limits of the authorised catches are to be simplified. i support this initiative, which is in the interests of european fishermen, who need our support now more than ever. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report at second reading. it provides more flexibility for our fishermen by changing the cod effort regime, the rules for fixing the allowable catches for low-quality stocks and protects the species and the environment by strengthening measures to combat discards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the commission proposal is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the 2008 regulation. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. the old plan contained a complicated system of fishing effort (days at sea) which did not allow the stocks to be restored.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to improve and clarify the provisions of the current regulation, which has been in force since 2008. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. the old plan contained a complicated system of fishing effort (days at sea), which did not improve stocks. i am happy to support this improvement by voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to clarify and simplify the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 concerning the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. the system introduced by the 2008 regulation was rather complicated and did not restore cod stocks. the new regulation removes the limits on the number of days a vessel could spend in a fishing zone, thus removing all obstacles to full compliance with the landing obligation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks provides that the impact of management measures is to be assessed in the third year of the plan's application. the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) evaluated the plan in 2011. the stecf report indicated that the objectives of the cod management plan had not yet been achieved and were unlikely to be achieved by 2015. it also revealed certain shortcomings in the design of the regulation and problems in its implementation. the commission proposes to amend the regulation to take account of these criticisms. it proposes, in particular, to limit the scope of the regulation in order to avoid the use of different calculation methods leading to an increase in the fishing effect. the report supports the commission's proposal, but adds a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts. i am voting for this text which protects both the cod stock and the prerogatives of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to amend council regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008, adopted before the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this regulation confers decision-making powers on the council. the amendment is designed to improve and clarify the provisions of the regulation relating in particular to the new common fisheries policy. i voted for this amendment to the longterm plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, as the previous plan contained a complicated system which did not allow for the recovery of the stocks.
in writing. ‒ council regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 was adopted before the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and therefore confers decision-making powers on the council (articles 10 and 11). since the feu treaty no longer allows for this possibility, the commission has therefore suggested an amendment to this regulation. the proposal is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the regulation. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. in substance, the old 2008 plan contained a complicated system of fishing effort (days at sea) that did not allow the stocks to be restored. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the regulation. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. in substance, the old 2008 plan contained a complicated system of fishing effort (days at sea) that did not allow the stocks to be restored. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the long-term management plan for cod stocks. this was a text at second reading for which no rejection amendments were tabled. it was therefore approved without a vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the regulation. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. in substance, the old 2008 plan provided for a complicated system of fishing effort (days at sea) which did not allow the stocks to be restored. i am voting in favour of this reform which, for once, is rather improving the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the long-term management plan for cod stocks. this plan will make it easier for cod fishermen to land all their catches.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the long-term plan for cod, which has been stuck in the interinstitutional pipelines for far too long. the negotiations on this report, which have been ongoing since 2012, have indeed created a legal precedent between the council and parliament. it was only after the referral to the court of justice of the european union and a ruling from it that the conflict between the two institutions over the interpretation of the treaty of lisbon was brought to an end. the sensitive issue at stake is that of quotas, for which the treaties give the council the sole prerogative to decide. the european parliament has co-decision powers on other fisheries regulations. since the multiannual plans were closely related to quotas, the european parliament was threatening to infringe the council's prerogatives in this area. the court of justice finally partly upheld parliament's decision, finding that the determination by parliament of the environmental principles applicable to quotas was compatible with the treaties. i am also glad that this regulation will end the effort regime for these fisheries, leaving only the quota system, which is good news because the double system was absurd for the professionals and without any added environmental value.
in writing. ‒ council regulation no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 was adopted before the entry into force of the feu treaty and therefore confers decision-making powers on the council (articles 10 and 11). since the feu treaty no longer provides for this possibility, the commission has therefore suggested an amendment to this regulation. the proposal is essentially aimed at improving and clarifying the provisions of the regulation. it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption today in plenary of the report by my socialist colleague, mr emmanuel maurel. tax fraud and tax evasion are unacceptable practices. equality before tax is a top priority. it is therefore essential to strengthen legislation and restore tax justice. the commission presented a legislative package in july to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. this report addresses the main limitation of these proposals: only national access to these data was envisaged; in other words, the luxembourg tax authorities could have known that a frenchman was the beneficiary of a passive company in luxembourg, without ever informing france. it is understandable why such a proposal is so inadequate. in the fight against fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax optimisation, the most effective tool is the automatic exchange of information. i am pleased that emmanuel maurel has managed to secure a large majority for this ambitious proposal. the council, which alone decides on taxation, must listen to the european parliament when it is consulted and put an end to a practice which undermines our social contract.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to amend council directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation by introducing a provision allowing tax authorities to have access to specific information relating to the fight against money laundering for tax purposes. this is a measure we support, especially as we voted for the anti-money laundering directive and the directive on the exchange of tax information. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted on 14 june. the commission also proposes the creation of a public register of companies that would guarantee access to information, and an obligation for member states to automatically transmit tax information that might be of interest to another member state within three months of its collection. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is important that the eu pursue an ambitious programme to combat tax fraud and tax evasion in order to achieve fairer and more efficient taxation in the union. greater tax transparency is a central element of this programme. to ensure this, the priority must be to strengthen cooperation between tax authorities across the union.
in writing. ‒ this directive implements the global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the union. as such, it shall ensure that information on the holders of financial accounts is communicated to the member state in which the account holder is resident. that is why i voted in favour of this text, after having voted for the directive on combating money laundering and for the directive on the exchange of tax information.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the amendment of council directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. given that we have always voted for the texts to combat tax evasion and money laundering, we support these new proposals which will offer member states' administrations the possibility of automatically accessing money laundering information in order to strengthen the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the european commission's proposal to amend the directive on administrative cooperation in the tax field. the purpose of this proposed amendment is to facilitate the access of tax authorities to specific information relating to the fight against money laundering. it also calls for the establishment of a public register of companies to facilitate the transmission of tax information between member states. we believe that this exchange of data will help to remove the administrative obstacles which hamper the effective work of national authorities in the fight against tax evasion. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report constitutes parliament's position on the revision of directive 2011/16/eu on access to anti-money laundering information by tax authorities. parliament was consulted on this text. the directive will make the exchange of information on the fight against money laundering automatic between member states. the aim of this reform is to enhance tax transparency and to make the fight against money laundering more effective in the european union. the luxleaks and panama papers scandals have shown many flaws in this area. so we have to act accordingly. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to consult the european parliament on the transparency of the european and international tax system. the conclusion is clear: tax authorities need better access to information from intermediary entities in order to be able to effectively identify and eliminate tax evasion. the report therefore proposes that tax authorities should be able to access information on money laundering systematically. i voted in favour of this report, which i believe clarifies and improves the effectiveness of the anti-fraud system in tax matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on access to information by tax authorities in relation to the fight against money laundering in order to enable these authorities to obtain the information necessary to ensure the proper application of the legislation on administrative cooperation by financial institutions. recent events have shown us the need to strengthen tax transparency in order to combat fraud. to this end, tax authorities must in particular be able to systematically access information enabling them to identify the beneficial owners of financial transactions.
in writing. ‒ the imposition of automatic and mandatory sharing of tax information between states was at the heart of emmanuel maurel's report. the commission did not propose it in its legislative package to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, even though it is a tool that is unanimously recognised and considered to be the most effective in countering tax avoidance and tax avoidance. that battle has been won in the house.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the proposal is an amendment to directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. this project implements the global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the european union. the central improvements of this directive are to enable tax authorities to access specific information in the context of the fight against money laundering for tax purposes. the states would be obliged to provide a reply within three months. a business register would also be made available to the public.
in writing. - luxleaks, swissleaks, the panama papers, you know. all these scandals highlight the unacceptable practices of tax evasion and tax evasion, and above all, our duty to combat them. the european commission's initial proposal on these subjects was too timid. national access to information on bank account holders in european territories alone did not allow the most effective weapon at our disposal to be used to combat money laundering and to increase transparency: the automatic and mandatory exchange of information. the report by emmanuel maurel, for which i voted, addresses this shortcoming by advocating the establishment of an automatic and mandatory mechanism for the exchange of data between tax authorities in the european union and points the way towards fiscal justice and equality in taxation, which must be our priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr emmanuel maurel, on access by tax authorities to information relating to the fight against money laundering. the report aims to change the rules on administrative cooperation for greater efficiency by introducing enhanced cooperation between european authorities. as this is a phenomenon that transcends borders and affects all european countries, only a european approach will solve this problem. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to give tax authorities systematic access to information on money laundering activities. the recent scandals show that the fight against money laundering needs to be strengthened and that tax authorities need to have access to this information so that financial institutions can properly apply the law in force, in particular the directive on administrative cooperation between financial authorities.
in writing. ‒ the recent 'luxleaks' and 'panama papers' cases have revealed too many breaches of eu law in the areas of money laundering, fraud and tax evasion. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which proposes further measures to strengthen the transparency framework. the aim is to give tax authorities access to all the information they need, particularly as regards the identification of the beneficial owners of offshore companies. we are therefore committed to taking concrete action against financial crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to information by tax authorities in the fight against money laundering. the proposal is to allow tax administrations to have automatic access to money laundering information in order to strengthen the fight against tax evasion, especially after the problems of information exchange revealed by the panama papers case. the access of tax administrations to information concerning money laundering varies considerably between member states. even where such access is granted, the authorities may face major obstacles to their effective work to combat tax evasion and avoidance. in order to ensure effective enforcement monitoring by financial institutions, it is therefore necessary that tax authorities have access to information relating to the fight against money laundering.
in writing. ‒ this directive implements the global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the union. as such, it shall ensure that information on the holders of financial accounts is communicated to the member state in which the account holder is resident. this is a measure which we support, we who voted for the anti-money laundering directive and the directive on the exchange of tax information. i am in favour of this project, which can only be positive for the fight against money laundering. i voted for it, logically.
in writing. ‒ following the various tax evasion scandals, the commission presented a legislative package in july to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. in this context, the report recommends an automatic and mandatory exchange of information on bank account holders between tax administrations. fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax optimisation are all scourges of the economy that must be firmly combated by a coordinated effort of all member states; that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the aim is to give tax authorities systematic access to information on the fight against money laundering. the directive, by ensuring the disclosure of information on financial account holders, applies the global standard for the automatic exchange of information in this area. it also allows financial institutions to examine the structure and identify the beneficial owners of the intermediary structure when the holder is an intermediary structure. we welcome these measures to improve tax transparency and the efficiency of the tax authorities' work.
in writing. ‒ the commission, the european parliament and the member states are finalising a major reform to better monitor and tackle corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing (the so-called amld i directive). the commission has proposed that the information thus collected should be made available to national tax authorities. this includes in particular access to the central registers of beneficial owners of companies and trusts which will be set up in each state. with this report, i have obtained, after successful negotiation with the other political groups, that each state automatically shares the information with the other countries concerned. in order to combat this globalised phenomenon, the automatic and compulsory exchange of information is considered by all experts to be the most effective weapon at the disposal of public authorities. by voting for this report and by winning a near-unanimous vote in parliament, i hope that it will serve as a useful instrument of pressure on european governments which are still very timid about tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to amend council directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. it introduces a provision allowing tax authorities to have access to specific information relating to the fight against money laundering for tax purposes. the report takes up this proposal with some clarifications. it stresses that in order to be effective, tax authorities must have 'sufficient numbers of qualified human resources to carry out this task'. the report promotes an automatic, mandatory and continuous exchange of information between the various tax authorities . the transmission period shall be three months after the information has been collected. tax avoidance schemes such as the one revealed in the luxleaks case are specifically targeted. finally, the report sets the objective of 'the global extinction of offshore centres'. i am voting for this text with no illusions about its effects.
in writing. ‒ this report is the result of a consultation procedure with parliament following the european commission's proposal to amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation to allow tax authorities to access information on the fight against money laundering. this amendment establishes a global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the union. recent tax scandals have highlighted gaps in tax information exchange and highlighted the steps that need to be taken to support tax transparency at european and international level. having already voted for the anti-money laundering directive and the directive on the exchange of tax information, i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the text introduces a number of measures useful in the fight against money laundering. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on access to information by tax authorities in relation to the fight against money laundering. this practice, which involves playing on the origin of the funds received, allows criminals or terrorist organisations to meet their financial needs; it is therefore essential that the european union strengthen cooperation between its member states to put an end to it.
in writing. this report deals with the automatic transmission of data on money laundering activities by national financial authorities. there is no obligation for eu member states to share this type of information, which is problematic in the case of cross-border money movements. i voted in favour of this text because it is necessary to apply more financial transparency at the level of the european union in the fight against money laundering and it is also a duty towards our citizens.
in writing. ‒ this directive implements the global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the union. as such, it shall ensure that information on the holders of financial accounts is communicated to the member state in which the account holder is resident. in addition, directive 2011/16/eu provides that where the account holder is an intermediate structure, financial institutions shall examine that structure and identify and report its beneficial owners. the proposal aims to amend council directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation by introducing a provision allowing tax authorities to have access to specific information relating to the fight against money laundering for tax purposes. the commission also proposes the creation of a public register of companies that would guarantee access to information, and an obligation for member states to automatically transmit tax information that might be of interest to another member state within three months of its collection. i support these effective measures against fraud and money laundering and therefore i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on access to information by tax authorities in the fight against money laundering. following the various tax evasion scandals, we have given our consent to the automatic sharing of information on bank account holders by tax authorities across the union. these measures are essential to combat money laundering and tax evasion, which are closely linked to the financing of terrorist activities and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr emmanuel maurel, on the directive on combating money laundering. the report contains ambitious elements for the creation of a european subsidiary register to help tax administrations combat the scourge of money laundering and tax evasion. this report goes further than the commission's proposal for an automatic exchange of tax data via this register to better track capital flows within the european union. equality before tax and tax justice are top priorities for socialist meps. and i welcome the adoption of this report which proposes concrete solutions. the european parliament will now have to negotiate with the council of the union, representing the member states, to reach a final text. the socialist and democratic meps will maintain a firm line to ensure that the proposals in the emmanuel maurel report are adopted.
in writing. ‒ the emmanuel maurel report provides for an automatic and mandatory exchange of information covered by the amld between member states' tax administrations. the fight against fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax optimisation is a top priority for the european union. however, the legislative package to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, presented by the commission last july, does not live up to the challenge, limiting access to the information collected to national tax administrations only. the report recommends a mandatory and automatic exchange of information between member states and calls on the commission, the council and national governments to adopt more ambitious measures to combat money laundering. it embodies parliament's re-affirmed will to guarantee the principle of equality before tax and to protect our social contract. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ tax fraud and tax evasion are unacceptable practices against which the european union can play a decisive role. the report by my colleague, mr emmanuel maurel, seeks to strengthen legislation in order to restore tax justice in europe. the european commission presented a legislative package in july 2016 to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. the package reformed the amld, which strengthened controls on a series of transactions by creating central registers in each member state with the list of beneficial owners of companies and trusts. but this crucial information was not always available to the tax authorities. the second part of the package therefore gave the tax administrations direct and horizontal access to this information. the emmanuel maurel report initially proposed going further, recommending an automatic and compulsory exchange of information between member states. unfortunately, this provision was excluded from the agreement at the council meeting before the vote. i voted for this report and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of a consultation procedure with parliament following the commission's proposal to amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, in order to allow tax authorities to have systematic access to information on the fight against money laundering. this directive implements the global standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in tax matters within the union. as such, it shall ensure that information on the holders of financial accounts is communicated to the member state in which the account holder is resident. in addition, directive 2011/16/eu provides that where the account holder is an intermediate structure, financial institutions shall examine that structure and identify and report its beneficial owners. this is a measure we support, especially as we voted in favour of the anti-money laundering directive and the directive on the exchange of tax information. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted on 14 june. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has examined at first reading a draft directive to provide all member states' tax authorities with automatic access to specific information relating to the fight against money laundering for tax purposes for a maximum of three months after it has been collected. this access concerns both the implementation measures and the data on the actual beneficiaries. the exchange of such information between tax authorities was already provided for in directive 2014/107/eu on the automatic and mandatory exchange of information in tax matters. however, this exchange of data could not be applied systematically, which ultimately prevented the identification of the actual beneficiaries of the fraud. the aim is therefore to combat tax fraud and so-called aggressive tax planning more effectively. any information obtained by a tax authority should be processed within the time limit prescribed by national law and any failure to process such data should be justified. i'm not sure that this will lead to a major revolution in tax evasion, but it may help to advance transparency. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the socialists and democrats generally support the expansionary monetary policies pursued by the ecb so far. however, we believe that the ecb alone can stimulate aggregate demand only if it is complemented by ambitious and socially balanced investment and structural reform programmes at member state level. we also call on the ecb to do more to ensure that this liquidity reaches the real economy and smes in particular and, finally, to be vigilant so that the low interest rates of banks benefit the real economy more.
in writing. ‒ this report raises relevant reservations about the ecb but does not in any way call into question its action, whereas the ecb embodies the abandonment of monetary sovereignty by nation states and the promotion of counterproductive and destructive austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which recalls the ecb's federal role and notes that the euro area continues to suffer from high unemployment, too low inflation and macroeconomic imbalances. the text also agrees that monetary policy alone cannot boost the economy and must be accompanied by serious fiscal policies and structural reforms. in fact, i reiterate my call for the creation of a euro-zone government.
in writing. ‒ this annual econ report on the ecb's activities goes beyond the usual commentary and focuses on both the macroeconomic situation and the latest actions taken by the central bank. the conventional monetary policy instruments (rate cuts in march) were reviewed, but especially the non-conventional instruments (extended quantitative easing until march 2017, tltro ii, etc.). however, the report expresses real reservations: on the transmission of qe to the real economy, on the risks of asset bubbles (particularly real estate), on the risks of zero rates on the economic model of life insurance, on the risk of a bond crash in the event of a rate hike, on the delicate management of an exit from qe (tapering), etc. in other words, this is not an ode to mario draghi and therefore not a whitewash of the ecb. that is why i did not vote against this report, while i remain opposed to the eu's fundamental monetary guidelines.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank does not have the same powers and mandate as the us central bank, and this is regrettable. the objectives of the edf are full employment, price stability and moderate interest rates to stimulate growth. the ecb, on the other hand, has only the mandate to contain or stimulate inflation so that it reaches, but does not exceed, two per cent. while the ecb's desire to bring budget deficits under control is welcome, it is clear that today, despite the massive asset purchases by the member states, it has not succeeded in this task, which risks plunging our countries in the medium term into a new crisis devastating for the prosperity of our citizens. the ecb's report is a difficult read, but it is regrettable that it does not envisage more flexibility in monetary policy. einstein said a century ago, "to do the same thing over and over again and expect different results is a sign of insanity". let us hope that the ecb hears this wise advice.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the econ committee's report on the ecb's action. while the report is of some interest in the fight against money laundering, it does not fundamentally call into question the action of the european central bank, which is the source of the abandonment of monetary sovereignty by states and austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ this report expresses reservations about the effectiveness of the european central bank's (ecb) monetary policy, which has consisted in lowering the refinancing rate and the deposit rate and in strengthening quantitative easing to counter deflationary risks. these reserves relate in particular to the transmission to the real economy of liquidity arising from the massive repurchase of assets on financial markets which are likely to create speculative bubbles. however, our position goes far beyond the mere criticisms made in this report. in the absence of an exit from the euro area, we want to implement a major amendment to the ecb's statute which would aim to include growth and exchange rate objectives and to remove its autonomy from the member states. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is the european parliament's response to the european central bank's annual report and covers as many key issues as the reforms needed for european monetary policy, the management of low interest rates and the completion of capital markets. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european central bank (ecb) for the year 2015. the text stresses in particular the importance of implementing the banking union and a capital markets union in order to enhance the effectiveness of the single monetary policy and mitigate the risks arising from a shock in the financial sector. it is also important to remember that monetary policy alone cannot solve the structural problems of the european economy. therefore, member states must carry out the necessary reforms and implement sound fiscal policies to boost growth and employment, including by ensuring access to finance for smes.
in writing. - i abstained on that report. this report by the european parliament's econ committee deals in depth with the european central bank's policies, both its conventional (rate reduction) and unconventional instruments, and makes a number of reservations. the front national wants, at a minimum, a review of the ecb's tasks as defined by the treaties and also of its status of independence. the national front's programme is, in the final analysis, a nationalisation of monetary and banking policies.
in writing. ‒ for once, the parliament's report is not a compliment to the european central bank's policy. it is even extremely reserved, among other things, on the impact of unconventional measures on the real economy, which still suffers from a large investment deficit, and on the impact of a policy of very low or even negative interest rates, prolonged for too long, on the poor quality of the counterparties offered as collateral in refinancing operations, on the risks of bubbles, in particular real estate, or of bond crashes in the event of a sudden rise in rates ... it is rightly concerned about the complexity of implementing the abandonment of unconventional policy, which cannot last indefinitely. but the proposed courses of action remain hopelessly stuck to the institutional and political model that is at the root of the problems. i am referring here to the greater convergence of fiscal and economic policies, the independence of the ecb, the limitation of its objectives... that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr ramon tremosa, on the european central bank's 2015 report. the report notes that 2015 was a year of some recovery in the euro area economy. the ecb has contributed to this in two ways: first, by making effective monetary policy decisions and, second, by making programmes flexible, adjusting measures to the economic situation. i support this report, which is part of the european parliament's monitoring mission of the activities of the european central bank. i am glad that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the european central bank's activity report for 2015. it provides a balanced assessment of the interaction between monetary policies and structural reforms and of the risks associated with low-interest rate policies.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the european central bank's annual report for 2015. the traditional econ report on the ecb's activities makes few value judgments in favour of the policy in place, and the tone is intended to be nuanced. the opinion delivered is not an ode to mario draghi and the ecb. however, the model i advocate goes far beyond these simple criticisms. i am in favour of a renationalisation of monetary policy and banking supervision, around a common euro currency accompanying the transition to national currencies. at the very least, i call for a reform of the treaties to change the mandate of the ecb (including the growth, employment and exchange rate objectives) and its status (autonomy and not independence from states), and i call for the possibility of directly monetising debt (amendment of article 123 tfeu). these options for an alternative monetary policy are not reflected in this report, although several groups, apart from the enl, are in favour of them. in this respect he represents only part of the opinion of the parliament, and certainly not the part with the most electoral dynamism.
in writing. ‒ the econ committee's traditional report on the ecb's performance moves away from a simple commentary on the institution's 2015 report and focuses on both the macroeconomic situation and the latest actions taken by the central bank, including therefore in 2016. these options for an alternative monetary policy in the union are not reflected in this report, although several groups, apart from the enl, are in favour of them. in this respect, it represents only part of the parliament's opinion, and certainly not the most dynamic one in terms of elections. given the ongoing project, i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. this text concerns the annual review of the activities of the european central bank (ecb). unlike the 2015 report for the year 2014, the european parliament decided this year to take a slightly more critical approach towards the ecb. the rapporteur therefore asks questions about the macroeconomic situation in europe and the latest measures taken by the central bank. it makes few favourable value judgments about the policy in place and expresses some relevant reservations. however, it does not go far enough to call into question the existence and the way the ecb works. it also remains blind to the consequences of austerity policies and the abandonment of monetary sovereignty by member states.
in writing. ‒ this annual report acknowledges that 'the effects on the real economy (of the ecb's actions) have been very limited'. but that doesn't mean that i question their logic. the report defends the independence of the ecb. it even asks governments to 'avoid statements calling into question the role played by the institution in the context of its mandate'. clearly, the ecb does what it wants and there is no complaining about it! above all, the report does not propose to finance the real economy directly and prefers to continue to fuel speculative bubbles by bailing out the banks. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this annual report reviews conventional and unconventional monetary policy instruments. the report is written in a polite tone and contains few value judgments in favour of the ecb's policy. it is clear that there are reservations about the transmission of quantitative easing (qe) to the real economy, about the questionable quality of collateral provided in exchange for cash, about the non-conditionality of some programmes in terms of lending to the real economy, about the risks of zero rates on the life insurance business model, about the risk of a bond crash in the event of a rate hike, about the delicate management of a qe exit (tapering), about the necessary sharing of tasks with the eba, etc. even if this opinion does not praise the actions of the president of the european central bank, mario draghi, our criticisms of the ecb's business model would go far beyond the mere reservations expressed in this report. that's why i abstained on this one.
in writing. ‒ the opinion delivered to us is not an ode to mario draghi and the ecb, the criticisms and reservations are there. however, the model we advocate would go far beyond these simple criticisms. we are in favour of a renationalisation of monetary policy and banking supervision, around a common euro currency accompanying the transition to national currencies. at the very least, we call for a reform of the treaties to change the mandate of the ecb (including the growth, employment and exchange rate policy objectives) and its status (autonomy and non-independence from states), and we call for the possibility of directly monetising debt (amendment of article 123 tfeu). these options for an alternative monetary policy in the union are not reflected in this report, although several groups, apart from the enl, are in favour of them. in this respect, it represents only part of the parliament's opinion, and certainly not the most dynamic one in terms of elections.
in writing. ‒ some of the remarks in this report on ecb policy are relevant, but there is no overall challenge to the ecb. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report 2015. it helps to put into perspective the situation in which the european union, and more particularly the euro area, finds itself: too high unemployment, economic indicators, in particular public deficits, still very worrying.
in writing. this report provides an overview of the european central bank's activities and should also help to define its future orientations and objectives. the ideas it contains are neither in the direction of democratic accountability for the ecb nor against current funding methods which encourage the formation of speculative bubbles. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report makes few value judgments in favour of the policy in place (a contrario, §2 and 6), and the tone is intended to be nuanced. it is thus clear that there are reservations about the transmission of qe to the real economy, the avoidance effects it induces, the risks of asset bubbles (particularly real estate), the questionable quality of collateral provided in exchange for cash, the non-conditionality in terms of lending to the real economy of certain programmes, the risks of zero rates on the economic model of life insurance, on that of bond crash in the event of a rate hike, on the delicate management of an exit from qe (tapering), on the necessary sharing of tasks with the eba, etc. there are the critics and the reservations. however, the model i advocate would go far beyond these simple criticisms. i want the monetary policy and banking supervision to be renationalised, with the euro as the common currency, to accompany the transition to national currencies. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european central bank's annual report for 2015. the european parliament took stock of the activities of the european system of central banks (escb) and of the monetary policy of the eurosystem. this report shows that monetary policy is not enough to get out of the crisis. the union needs structural reforms, strong national budgets and responsible fiscal policies in the member states if growth in the euro area is to be broad-based and unemployment in all member states is to decline. it also shows the usefulness of parliament in the control of the union's institutions.
in writing. ‒ the traditional ecb activity report moves away from a simple commentary on the institution's 2015 report and focuses on both the macroeconomic situation and the latest actions taken by the central bank, including therefore in 2016. it is thus clearly expressed that there are concerns about the transmission of qe to the real economy, about the avoidance effects of qe, about the risks of asset bubbles, about the questionable quality of collateral provided in exchange for cash, about the non-conditionality of some programmes in terms of lending to the real economy, about the risks of zero rates on the business model of life insurance, about the risk of a crash in the event of a rate hike, about the delicate management of an exit from qe, about the necessary sharing of tasks with the eba, etc. in the end, the opinion delivered to us is not an ode to mario draghi and the ecb, the criticisms and reservations are there. however, the model we advocate would go far beyond these simple criticisms. we are in favour of a renationalisation of monetary policy and banking supervision, around a common euro currency accompanying the transition to national currencies. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report on the activities of the european central bank in 2015 - adopted by a majority of 16 votes - apparently contains some interesting reforms from a social point of view and rightly criticizes the ecb's tendency to align itself with the german position despite the disastrous consequences. unfortunately, this report is not critical - even complacent - of the ecb's monetary policy. this is a weak compromise between the epp, s&d and alde groups: the focus is mainly on the 'structural reforms' to be undertaken and on 'competitiveness' - words that are worn out and meaningless. at a minimum, the ecb should have been asked to set employment targets instead of its obsessive desire to fight inflation alone. for europe to move forward, a new monetary policy is needed and, again, at a minimum, democratic control of the ecb. the report does not reach satisfactory conclusions. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the developments in the single market for retail financial services in a digitalised world will only work if we ensure a sufficient level of consumer protection through better information and greater transparency. we ask the commission to come forward with a coherent action plan, including concrete legislative proposals, to create a european market in which consumer protection and transparency have a full place.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this green paper is to launch a debate on how the european market for retail financial services could be further opened. the main recommendation is to establish mutual trust, in particular by ensuring consumer protection and the free movement of businesses in their cross-border activities. we oppose this desire to further expand the single market because it has proved to be more problematic and inconvenient than beneficial, in particular because of economic, cultural and regulatory disparities. we therefore fear that the establishment of the single market for retail financial services will cause serious damage to our national economy and that future market disparities will be corrected by even more technocratic administration and control from brussels. moreover, crossborder purchases of retail financial services are a serious threat to our banking sovereignty and to the future of our citizens in the event of the euro's demise. this single market is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area or the european union. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the presentation of this green paper seems to me to be an appropriate choice. the construction of the single market for retail financial services has remained at an embryonic stage. we are still present in 28 different markets with little competition. digitalisation is a factor that should enable us to remove barriers to cross-border activity and i welcome the forthcoming launch of a public consultation with the sector's stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this green paper is to launch a debate on how the european market for retail financial services could be further opened. at present, crossborder purchases of these services remain very limited and most of them are already available on national markets. the main recommendation is therefore to establish mutual trust, in particular by ensuring consumer protection and a certain degree of freedom for businesses in their cross-border activities. this single market is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area... or the european union. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the green paper on retail financial services. by proposing the creation of yet another single market, in this case for retail financial services, this proposal poses a mortal threat to our banking sovereignty. clearly, if the euro were to disappear, retail financial services contracted in other countries would be subject to currency exchange risk and many households would see credit repayment amounts vary enormously. in addition, the establishment of the single market for retail financial services could cause serious damage to our national economy. it seems clear that future market disparities will be corrected by even more technocratic administration and controls from brussels. we refuse.
in writing. ‒ this green paper aims to strengthen the european market for retail financial services such as current accounts, retirement savings solutions, real estate project financing and personal or property insurance. the project would increase competition between financial institutions in favour of customers' purchasing power. to achieve this, the text advocates establishing mutual trust by ensuring consumer protection and the liberalisation of banking/insurance in crossborder areas. we believe, on the contrary, that the establishment of the european single market highlights above all the economic, legislative and regulatory disparities that exist between the member states. we are therefore rightly concerned that the european commission will correct these disparities by strengthening european regulation and legislation to the detriment of our national sovereignty. the single market is therefore, above all, a further step in the economic, monetary and financial integration of the european union. i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission published a green paper and a public consultation in december 2015 to assess the feasibility of a european market for retail financial services. the commission's objective is to identify the remaining obstacles to cross-border activities in the area of retail financial services, taking into account the digitalisation of these services and technological developments. this report is therefore the european parliament's contribution to the debate on the creation of a european market for retail financial services. a european market for retail financial services will have very positive consequences for consumers, investors, smes, fintechs and businesses. however, it seems difficult to achieve in the present state of affairs. many barriers, which cannot be overcome by the digitalisation of services alone, persist, such as regulatory barriers (different tax, social, health systems, etc.), geographical and cultural barriers (languages). it is also important not to rush into legislative work in order to avoid creating duplicates with the european legislation that has recently been created in this field. i voted in favour of this report, for which i am the rapporteur for the epp.
in writing. i supported this report following the publication of the commission's green paper designed to assess the feasibility of a european market for retail financial services. the creation of a european market for retail financial services would have positive economic effects, particularly for smes, which could benefit from easier access to finance. but before achieving this objective, the text rightly stresses the need to strengthen consumer confidence in retail financial services by ensuring the transparency of these products and by facilitating their understanding and comparison across the different member states of the european union.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the aim of this green paper is to launch a debate on how the european market for retail financial services (current accounts, retirement savings solutions, real estate project financing, personal or property insurance) can guarantee the free movement of businesses in their cross-border activities. we therefore oppose these proposals, which are contrary to the banking sovereignty of the member states and constitute a threat to europeans in the event of the euro's disappearance.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this single market is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area or the european union.
in writing. ‒ retail financial services are still too fragmented and too national. retail services are the money of ordinary citizens: their current accounts, their retirement savings, their mortgages, their insurance... the aim is to encourage the creation of a single market for these services and to encourage crossborder purchases, which are too few. the commission points out that the computer tool now provides better information, that competition will bring down prices (a trend often repeated but rarely verified), that european regulation provides effective consumer protection... on the one hand, i doubt that citizens who already look with a critical eye at banking services in their own country would be willing to place blind trust in a foreign bank and to embark on an adventure in which they would not know the tax treatment. on the other hand, i believe that this project is concealed behind fallacious arguments to promote greater interdependence of national economies, making a possible exit from the eu or the euro more complex. this interdependence will also encourage national and european regulatory inflation and, to put it bluntly, the relentless surveillance of everyone's bank accounts. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague olle ludvingsson on the green paper on financial services. the report highlights that there are still many barriers to the creation of a european retail financial services market, which can only be overcome by digitising services. i support this initiative, which must be gradual and benefit consumers, smes and industry. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to decide how the european market for retail financial services (insurance, loans, payments, current and savings accounts, etc.) can be improved for consumers and businesses. i believe that parliament's contribution to the consultation process opened up in the green paper is a good indication of the new challenges, with particular emphasis on digitalisation, simplification of legislation and the reduction of geo-blocking practices, for example.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the green paper on retail financial services. these include current accounts, retirement savings solutions, financing of real estate projects and personal or property insurance. at present, crossborder purchases of these services remain very limited and most of them are already available on national markets. however, the european commission wants to encourage financial firms to offer their products in all countries and citizens to make cross-border purchases. this is a false good idea. the creation of the single market has proved to bring more problems and disadvantages than benefits, in particular because of economic, cultural and regulatory disparities. the single market for retail financial services could cause serious damage to our national economy, and future market disparities will be corrected by even more technocratic administration and control from brussels. this single market is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area, or the eu.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this green paper is to launch a debate on how the european market for retail financial services could be further opened. at present, crossborder purchases of these services remain very limited and most of them are already available on national markets. the main recommendation is therefore to establish mutual trust, in particular by ensuring consumer protection and the free movement of businesses in their cross-border activities. this single market is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area, or the european union. i voted against this green paper idea.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the green paper on retail financial services aims to develop the european market in this area, in particular for current accounts, retirement savings solutions, real estate project financing and personal or property insurance. we oppose this desire to further expand the single market, which has consistently proved ineffective because of economic, cultural and regulatory disparities. moreover, our banking sovereignty is threatened by cross-border purchases of retail financial services and, if the euro were to disappear, retail financial services contracted in other countries would be subject to currency exchange risk. many households would have to pay a huge amount of money back. this is, among other things, a means of blocking the exit of member states from the euro area.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to establish a european market for retail financial services (including insurance) in the context of the digital boom in banking. as always, the aim is to work towards 'the removal of barriers and the mitigation of existing protectionist tendencies', which would allow 'stronger competition at national level'. all this supposedly to make it easier for consumers to choose. however, the variety and complexity of products on the eu market may make it very difficult to compare the financial services on offer. the report insists that the new rules 'do not constitute a brake on innovation'. but he is not worried about the consequences of the disappearance of "physical" agencies for the elderly or those without access to digital. finally, the report supports the changeover to the euro for all member states! that's very optimistic. this time, he claimed that 'adopting the single currency by all member states without exception would improve the efficiency and coherence of the single market for retail financial services'. the dream! i am voting against this report, which does not seek to protect consumers but, on the contrary, favours the speculative banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this green paper is to further open up the european market for retail financial services, including current accounts, retirement savings solutions, real estate project financing, personal and property insurance. europe's desire to further expand the single market to include retail financial services will not escape the many problems that the establishment of the european single market has revealed, notably because of economic, cultural and regulatory disparities. this will have serious consequences for our national economy and will strengthen brussels' technocratic control. the creation of a single market for retail financial services therefore represents a real danger to our national sovereignty, in particular banking. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this green paper is to launch a debate on how the european market for retail financial services could be further opened up, in particular by ensuring the free movement of businesses in their cross-border activities. we are opposed to this desire to further expand the single market. first, the creation of the european single market has proved to bring more problems and disadvantages than benefits, in particular because of economic, cultural and regulatory disparities. we therefore fear that the establishment of the single market for retail financial services will cause serious damage to our national economy, and that future market disparities will be corrected by even more technocratic administration and control from brussels. moreover, crossborder purchases of retail financial services are a serious threat to our banking sovereignty and the future of our citizens in the event of the euro's demise. this single market is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area, or the european union.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes the creation of a single market which is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area, or the european union. i therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the green paper on retail financial services. the text is parliament's response to the commission's green paper of december 2015 on the feasibility of a european market for retail financial services. such a market would bring many benefits to european citizens: access to all retail financial products and services regardless of the member state in which the citizen resides, the possibility of increased competition between banking institutions, which will lead to increased innovation, increased product diversity and lower prices.
in writing. this report proposes to simplify and unify the rules on the retail market, in order to create a european retail market and to allow for price balance across the continent, where the differences are now too great - car insurance can cost from one to two times as much for the same person depending on the country. however, i decided to vote against this proposal, which is based mainly on the creation of a large digital market with various negative consequences: firstly, by excluding people without access to the internet and by favouring the large players in the sector over the small ones, without offering adequate protection to consumers.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the european single market has proved to bring more problems and disadvantages than benefits, in particular because of economic, cultural and regulatory disparities. i am therefore concerned that the creation of the single market for retail financial services will cause serious damage to our national economy and that future market disparities will be corrected by even more technocratic administration and control from brussels. moreover, crossborder purchases of retail financial services are a serious threat to banking sovereignty and the future of our citizens in the event of the euro's demise. when the euro disappears, retail financial services contracted in other countries will be subject to currency exchange risk and many households will have to pay back very different amounts of credit. this is not to mention the administrative complexity that such a situation will bring for these same citizens. this single market is intended to appear as a means of offering more freedom to the consumer, but it is above all an additional chain that the commission wants to throw on the member states to force them not to leave the euro area, or the european union. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ to contribute to the reflection on the creation of a european market for retail financial services, the commission published a green paper in december 2015 to assess the feasibility of such a market. i voted in favour of this report on the european parliament's contribution to this debate. it seems to me important to be able to identify the benefits of these financial products and services for consumers, investors and smes, as well as the difficulties in establishing such a market.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this green paper is to launch a debate on how the european market for retail financial services could be further opened. retail financial services include: current accounts, retirement savings solutions, financing of real estate projects, personal or property insurance. however, considering that digital technology is a good tool to provide consumers with more and more information, to increase competition and to lower prices, the european commission wants to encourage financial companies to offer their retail products in all countries, and citizens to make cross-border purchases. the main recommendation is therefore to establish mutual trust, in particular by ensuring consumer protection and the free movement of businesses in their cross-border activities. we oppose this desire to further expand the single market for the following reasons: firstly, the establishment of the european single market has proved to bring more problems and disadvantages than benefits, in particular because of economic, cultural and regulatory disparities. moreover, crossborder purchases of retail financial services are a serious threat to our banking sovereignty and the future of our citizens in the event of the euro's demise. i voted against this text.
i hesitated to support this report, but i did support it because i am in favour of the cooperation of the individual states at the level of the defence industry, so that the armed forces communicate with each other as much as possible. on the other hand, i am not in favour of a european armed forces and a european army. i believe that nato is the clear actor in this matter and that it is unnecessary to create competition with nato. as recital d concerning the unified armed forces did not pass, i endorsed the report as a whole. what i think is particularly important in this report is that we are calling on member states to raise money for defence, to really invest 2% of their gdp in armaments and in their own defence, because we cannot rely on someone, for example the united states, to defend us all the time, and therefore we do not have to give our own money to it. i think that's the main message, to rely on self-defense and put money into it.
mr president, it is a pity that the response to the break with britain after brexit is to imagine the preparation of a european defence community. the fear of others, the preparation of war as a bond for the peoples of europe, is absurd. we have made europe for peace and we are told that we are preparing for war, because that is what it is all about. when we arm ourselves and organize ourselves to arm ourselves together, without identifying an adversary, we are identifying the whole world as a potential adversary. you mean a defense? but against whom? it's not specified. there is no common european policy - we know that - in foreign affairs, so we are back to the origins of europe, since the first text submitted to the peoples of europe in 1954 was the european defence community. my country has said no, as it would say no again if asked. in reality, it is a division of roles between the united states of america and europe, with the united states of america looking towards asia while we are put in the hands of any provocation that comes from ukraine. i have only one more word to say, mr president, to conclude: france has a defence system which is incompatible with this division of roles. it involves our independence and our deterrence. no more war, no more war, peace!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. mr trump's isolationist approach is putting europe at the edge of a cliff: we must take our security into our own hands! there are voices in germany calling for the defence of the european continent. let us take this into account in order to finally build a genuine european defence. i am in favour of the pooling of military resources between the member states of the european union. it would make europe stronger, while at the same time saving a lot of money. the european parliament's 2013 report estimated the cost of no european union of defence at 26 billion a year! this is almost 15% of the european defence budgets. let us together assess our needs and respond to them together. citizens are in favour of a stronger military commitment by europe. it is time to give ourselves collectively the means to protect europeans, to protect the union's values and interests too!
in writing. ‒ this is one of the many reports that have been produced to take advantage of brexit in an attempt to revive european defence policy. european defence policy is a 15-year-old sea snake which, by its own admission, is based on nato. it should be remembered that it was the main reason for n. sarkozy's return of france to the integrated command. this essential link is assumed by the text and betrays the real nature of the edu which is the supply of supplementary troops for those who have a military tool still suitable for other powers (which without britain will soon be the case of france with an army in decay). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the idea of a common european defence makes sense. today, as heads of state and government try to maintain the illusion that they retain their sovereign prerogatives on a number of issues, i am pleased to see that there is some discussion about what policy could be more effectively pursued if sovereignty were shared. from a budgetary point of view, a more integrated defence framework could lead to significant savings, additional capabilities and more sustained investment. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the eurocrats are looking to take advantage of brexit to try to revive a so-called common european defence policy... obviously based on nato. this essential link is assumed by the text (points 3, 36, 37 and 38) and betrays the real nature of the 'european defence union': the simple provision of additional troops for those who have a military tool still suitable for an organisation almost exclusively serving american interests. i therefore voted against this text.
‒ 62 years ago, a first draft of a european defence union was rejected by a vote of the communists and gaullists in my country's parliament. i regret this bitterly, because a common and independent european defence remains a beautiful dream which must be pursued, given the threats we will have to face in the future. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's good will, although i fear that we must not be deluding ourselves. a ude will not be tomorrow. from the civil wars in the balkans to the crisis in ukraine and the conflict in syria today, the facts are clear: europe is failing to speak with one voice. the recent us presidential election is here to remind us of this and the first round of the republican primary in france is also. both elections saw the triumph of a candidate who wants to establish better relations with russia. should russia have been criticized in this report, even if only in a subtle way, by skipping a sentence? as if russia were the main enemy of a future european defence union...
in writing. ‒ i voted against the urmas paet report because it undermines the sovereignty of the member states in areas of sovereign competence: internal security, external security, foreign policy, defence research and strategic industries. european defence has remained a dead letter, rendered obsolete by the divergent interests of nations and disparate military cultures. it's time to take notice.
in writing. ‒ this report uses the deteriorating political climate in europe and the current terrorist threat as a pretext to revive the idea of a european defence policy. in particular, member states are asked to coordinate their investments in security and defence. we are strongly opposed to any european defence union which concerns areas of strategic competence which are the exclusive sovereignty of the member states. moreover, this common defence policy will be modelled on the nato action plans from which we want france to withdraw because of american hegemony. it is astonishing to see how much the european union is willing to submit to american interests. we want to maintain balanced diplomatic relations with all the international powers in order to bring about a multipolar world. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because europe needs much more developed and targeted cooperation in defence and security. it is an ambitious text which, among other things, sets up a defence research and development programme. it is also important to develop cooperation between the european union and nato, whose actions must be complementary. however, i voted against the tax exemption amendment to encourage the defence industry to cooperate. i think that is not the right idea and i remain convinced that the relaunch of defence europe would require a more inclusive approach as a first step.
in writing. ‒ in this motion for a resolution, we call on the member states to step up defence cooperation. in view of the growing security threats within the european union and its neighbourhood, in particular the threat posed by the islamic state, close cooperation between the armed forces of the union countries is considered to be of paramount importance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. i voted in favour of the resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for progress towards a european defence union. the recent news with the brexit vote and the election of donald trump as president of the united states has only strengthened our resolve to continue to strengthen the defence capabilities of the european union and cooperation between member states in this area. it seems to me obvious that in the face of the most serious terrorist threat, the risk of hybrid threats or organised crime, our work towards a defence europe must be given top priority. the text then stresses the need for the european union and its member states to allocate adequate financial resources to this end.
in writing. ‒ after brexit, terrorist attacks and the ongoing destabilisation of europe's neighbourhood, defence and security issues have never been more pressing. the union must have a common headquarters and must be the focal point for the pooling of efforts in budgetary matters and equipment. in a world that has become less secure, this is what european citizens expect from us. this report supports the idea of a gradual construction of the european defence union and proposes some tools. i would like to reiterate my wish that defence expenditure should not be included in the calculation of the debt. for historical reasons, france, in the peaceful and neutral line of certain member states, is almost alone in assuming europe's military presence in the world, and it must be able to be supported in this effort in one way or another.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is aimed at reviving european defence policy from the ashes in the wake of brexit. the european integrated defence policy is supported by nato: it was one of the conditions for france's reintegration into nato's integrated command. this objective is, moreover, fully assumed by the text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: european defence policy is based on its own admission of nato.
in writing. ‒ many speakers yesterday said that mr trump's isolationist tendencies made european defence more necessary than ever. but a european defence against whom, against what, and in the service of what diplomatic and strategic interests? paradoxically, still in the service of american interests. on the one hand, there is no coherent external policy of the european union, as the interests and traditions of the member states diverge. the rapporteur also does not intend to stop including european security in the nato framework. a 'european army' would therefore only be 'european' in name. deprived of its british component by brexit, it would be reduced to a french army, squeezed by budget cuts, supported by a few disparate units from other countries, engaged in foreign theatres of operations far away from the north atlantic but decided in washington. who else is she fighting in the future? the rapporteur is careful not to specify his point of view: vague humanitarian or peacekeeping missions, vague definitions of threats which do not incriminate anyone in particular. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen europe's autonomy in defence matters. europe must be able to better guarantee the safety and protection of its citizens and stabilise its external environment. to this end, joint funding mechanisms need to be developed and the use of eu tactical groups needs to be more flexible. it is also envisaged to share non-lethal equipment (transport vehicles, etc.) and to develop a joint defence research programme. it is essential to consolidate the european defence industrial, technological and research base and to encourage investment in new technologies. now that donald trump is the president of the united states, the european union must prove more than ever that it is capable of facing threats to its security interests autonomously, of helping its partners and of protecting its territory and its citizens independently of nato.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr urmas paet, on eu defence cooperation. in view of the security situation inside and outside europe's borders, i support the strengthening of military cooperation at european level in conjunction with nato. this initiative will not lead to the creation of a european military contingent but to a rationalisation of costs, thus avoiding duplication and overcapacity which cost member states millions of euros. i am glad that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to reflect on and imagine a new european defence policy in the face of the current security challenges facing our states. a reformed csdp (common security and defence policy) based on a strong defence principle, more efficient funding and coordination with nato are three priority areas. the creation of a european defence union must be based on permanent cooperation, which is why i agree with the proposals in this report: the creation of a standing committee of defence ministers, permanent units, a military start-up fund, the strengthening and expansion of the athena mechanism (community financing of military security and defence operations).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which gives a new impetus to the project of a european defence union. as real and growing threats exist, it is necessary for the member states of the european union to intensify their efforts to cooperate in security and defence matters, in order to combat terrorism in particular.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european defence union. this is one of the many reports that have been produced to use brexit to strengthen the european union, if necessary by trying to revive european defence policy. european defence policy is a 15-year-old sea snake which, by its own admission, is based on nato. this link is assumed by the text (paragraphs 3, 36, 37 and 38) and betrays the real nature of the edu. in any event, the european union has no political, organisational or other legitimacy to claim competence for the defence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which takes advantage of the post-brexit float to try to revive european defence policy, a sea serpent defended by nato tooth and nail. our group does not approve of the return of france to the integrated command of nato, as proposed by nicolas sarkozy, and the essential link between the alliance and this idea of a european defence policy, so i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ terrorist attacks, destabilisation of the union's neighbours and cyber insecurity are all factors that make better security and defence cooperation within our union necessary. this report supports the idea of a progressive construction of the european defence union, in particular through the introduction of a european defence semester, the creation of an eu headquarters to plan and command crisis management operations and better investment in defence research. in order to build an ever more secure european area capable of responding to today's challenges, our armed forces must work together more closely; that is why i support this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this text is to develop european defence policy. he is taking advantage of brexit to try to give a new lease of life to this project, which has proved its effectiveness, and which he himself recognises is based on nato. this european defence union actually makes it possible to supply troops from the member states which still have a military tool to the member states which do not.
in writing. ‒ this report is an attempt to revive the european defence policy, a chimera based on nato and aimed at providing troops to certain powers by states with a still suitable military tool. which, without britain, will soon be france's only concern, despite a decaying army. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the many reports that have been produced to take advantage of brexit in an attempt to revive european defence policy. european defence policy is a 15-year-old sea snake which is based on its own confessions about nato. it should be remembered that it was the main cause agreed by nicolas sarkozy for the return of france to the integrated command. this essential link is assumed by the text (points 3, 36, 37 and 38) and betrays the real nature of the edu which is the supply of additional troops for those who have a military tool still suitable for other powers (which, without great britain, will soon be the case of france with an army in decay). i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ defence policy is perhaps the most crucial for a state. without self-defense, the state is not a state. any attempt to federate defence must therefore be seen for what it really is: a desire to create a european state against the will of the people.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text which calls for the establishment of a european defence. i am in favour of close cooperation between the european armies, but as a gaullist i am committed to the sovereignty of the states in military matters. i believe that the interests of the member states of the european union are not always the same. the establishment of a european defence is therefore not conceivable today.
in writing. ‒ european defence policy is a sea serpent of the european construction which is based, by its own admission, on nato. it should be remembered that it was the main reason for sarkozy's return of france to the integrated command. this essential link is assumed by the text (points 3, 36, 37 and 38) and betrays the real nature of the edu which is the supply of additional troops to those who have a military tool still suitable, to other powers (which, without great britain, will soon be the case of france with an army in decay). i defend the national independence of my country, which has gone through the complete control of its defense policy. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. the european union is under constant threat from terrorism and attacks of all kinds. in the face of this climate of insecurity, we have no choice but to act to strengthen cooperation between states in the field of security and defence. that is why i voted in favour of this report, and it is important that the armed forces of the member states cooperate more closely in this area. parliament now calls on the member states to devote 2% of their gdp to defence in order to consolidate our forces to react more quickly and more firmly to real threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for greater eu cooperation in defence matters. the union needs to react more swiftly and more firmly to the current threats. to achieve this, the european armed forces must cooperate more closely. cybersecurity and terrorism are forcing eu countries to step up their cooperation efforts in the field of security and defence. the text calls on the member states to devote 2% of their gdp to defence and to establish a european headquarters to plan and command crisis management operations. the union and nato must also cooperate more closely to counter hybrid threats and to develop defence capabilities. on the other hand, the union must be able to act autonomously in cases where nato is not able to respond to security crises. finally, i supported this text because it calls for the establishment of real european support for defence research. the european union urgently needs a common defence policy with more resources and a stronger defence force to ensure the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report comes at a time of high and pressing tensions on the doorstep of the european union. the world is more unstable than in previous decades and austerity policies have reduced the room for manoeuvre of national budgets. we need to re-examine our defence policies. as in other areas, the cost of non-europe in defence - i.e. the lack of european-wide pooling and coordination - is high. it is estimated at €26 billion per year. an integrated defence policy would be more relevant to the protection of europeans. this report proposes progress towards european mutualisation and cooperation, such as the creation of a military and civilian headquarters and the development of permanent structured cooperation in defence matters. it also sets out lines of convergence between national defence policies. i have approved this report, which marks a breakthrough for defence europe.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the many reports that have been produced to take advantage of brexit in an attempt to revive european defence policy. european defence policy is a 15-year-old sea snake which, by its own admission, is based on nato. it should be remembered that this was the main reason agreed by sarkozy for the return of france to the integrated command. this essential link is assumed by the text (points 3, 36, 37 and 38) and betrays the real nature of the edu which is the supply of additional troops to those who have a military tool still suitable, to other powers (which without britain will soon be the case of france with an army in decay). i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the european defence union is part of the union's current trend towards strengthening security and interventionist policies. this is somewhat in line with the responses announced by some member states, including france, after brexit. the text calls for the strengthening of the links between the 'european defence union' and nato with a view to remilitarisation through massive investment in armaments. at a time when the need for investment, particularly in the social field, is becoming more and more acute, it seems to me absurd to encourage a militaristic policy in favour of the arms industry. this is not the answer that european citizens expect. what has happened to the union's original aspirations to promote peace? there are better things to do and more urgent than to fuel international tensions with rearmament. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. passenger transport by sea can be an environmentally and consumer-friendly mode of transport and an essential service for tourists and people in remote or coastal areas. further measures need to be taken to promote this mode of transport, which can have a positive effect on economic development along coastal areas and also alleviate land-based traffic congestion.
in writing. ‒ developing passenger transport by water is relevant. however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits, with the stated desire to create an additional single area for travellers by water and its almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french commercial fleet, make this report unacceptable. so i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ improving the use of available capacity for passenger transport by water would not only reduce congestion, but also reduce co2 emissions and improve air quality accordingly. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the rapporteur calls for the creation of a 'single area for passenger transport by water', something which fn-rbm meps have always opposed. this would inevitably accelerate the replacement, at least partially, of french ships by foreign ships and personnel. the interest in developing passenger transport by water is obvious. however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits with the stated desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers and its almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french commercial fleet make this report unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report concerns the development of passenger transport on the union's rivers and seas. i agree that the european geography is well suited to river transport and that this is a mode of transport to be developed because it is too under-exploited in favour of road transport. he wants the creation of 'highways of the sea' and the development of 'intermodality', which i consider positive, but i am concerned about the creation of a 'single area for passenger transport by water'. this would inevitably accelerate the replacement, at least partially, of french ships by foreign ships and personnel. secondly, the report is full of the perfectly well-meaning member's words. if, in general, i want to develop passenger transport by waterways (and, going further, also river freight), here the text, with this desire for an additional single area, is likely to harm what remains of the french commercial fleet and make us lose a little more of our sovereignty. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to develop river transport for the benefit of travellers. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. although i am in favour of the growth of this mode of transport, which will contribute to the dynamism of tourism and our economies, i voted against this report, which is likely to harm the companies specialising in this activity. the text places particular emphasis on the development of low-polluting fleets, on staff training and on general access for people with reduced mobility. with these environmental constraints, passenger transport by water may not go beyond the embryonic stage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on exploiting the potential of passenger transport by water. while more than 400 million people pass through eu ports every year, passenger transport by water remains underdeveloped. faced with the need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, it is imperative that we change our transportation habits. passenger transport by water is a credible option. this mode of transport is more environmentally friendly and promises economic development, particularly in the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at developing passenger transport on the rivers and seas of the european union. the geography of europe is ideally suited to river transport, but it is under-exploited. the interest in developing river transport is obvious. the front national is opposed to the creation of a single river area in europe, as this would result in the replacement of french vessels by foreign vessels and personnel.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the interest in developing passenger transport by water is clear. however, the almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french merchant fleet makes this report unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague keith taylor's report on the exploitation of passenger transport by water. i support this initiative, which is part of the drive to develop alternative modes of transport. waterways are also a way of revitalizing an entire economy and rediscovering the seafront in an urban landscape. the report also highlights the interoperability of this network with the trans-european transport network by strengthening the connections between the seafront and the hinterland. i am glad that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because maritime passenger transport plays a crucial role in the emergence of a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, with policies focusing on safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on exploiting the potential of passenger transport by water. this own-initiative report seeks to submit a resolution to the council and the commission with a view to developing passenger transport on the union's rivers and seas. the report starts from the twofold observation that, on the one hand, the european geography with its rivers, coasts and islands is particularly suited to river, sea and lake transport. on the other hand, this mode of transport is under-exploited in favour of road transport, leading to congestion and increased pollution, especially in cities. the rapporteur wants to create a 'single area for passenger transport by waterway', something i have always opposed. this would inevitably accelerate the replacement, at least partially, of french ships by foreign ships and personnel. the interest in developing passenger transport by water is obvious. however, the desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers and the almost inevitable risk of harming the remaining french merchant fleet make this report unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the stated objective of this report is to develop passenger transport by sea and/or river. nevertheless, this report is informed by eco-european integrationist trends, in particular its desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers. finally, such a resolution is likely to seriously damage what remains of the french merchant fleet, which i cannot support. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the report aims to encourage the development of passenger transport by river, sea and lake, an area which is under-exploited in europe. the interest in developing passenger transport by water is obvious, but this report raises our greatest reservations. we are concerned that the creation of a 'single area for passenger transport by water' and the creation of 'highways of the sea', both reforms desired in this respect, will inevitably accelerate the replacement of french ships by foreign ships, something we strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ europe's geography, characterised by its extensive coastline, numerous islands and rivers, offers extraordinary prospects for sustainable waterborne passenger transport. this report could have used the opportunity to propose an ambitious plan to extend the capacity of environmentally friendly water transport. but the report does not distinguish between small regular ferries (playing a key role as a sustainable public transport alternative for citizens in their daily commutes) and cruises for mass recreational tourism. strategic impacts on long-term social and territorial cohesion, on the decentralised local economy or on overall environmental performance are also ignored. under these conditions i abstain
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to transmit a resolution to the council and the commission on the development of passenger transport on the union's rivers and seas. the rapporteur's wish is to create a single area for the transport of passengers by water, which would accelerate the disappearance of french vessels and replace them with foreign vessels and staff. the report, while sound, is unfortunately tainted by the usual arguments of the environmentalists and highlights their europeanist tendencies. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wants to see the creation of a 'single area for passenger transport by water', something which fn-rbm meps have always opposed. this would inevitably accelerate the replacement, at least partially, of french ships by foreign ships and personnel. it called for the creation, as for the transport of maritime freight, of motorways of the sea for passengers by water, with the development of adequate infrastructure allowing intermodality with in particular land transport, and thus called on the member states to develop initiatives in this direction. of course, the usual doxa of the perfectly well-meaning mep runs through the whole report: the emphasis is on the development of low-polluting fleets, with staff trained to ensure maximum safety, general access for people with reduced mobility, and even taking into account the needs of cyclists. the politically correct nature of the report, with its stated intention of creating an additional single area for waterway travellers and its almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french merchant fleet, makes this report unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the interest in developing passenger transport by water is clear. however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits, together with the stated desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers and the almost inevitable risk of harming the remaining french merchant fleet, make this report unacceptable. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on exploiting the potential of passenger transport by water. with cop 21 just concluded and cop 22 already under way, it is essential to reduce air pollution, particularly from congestion in certain modes of transport such as road transport. the promotion of passenger transport by water will also result in the fluidification of local transport networks in certain territories where tourists saturate the networks.
in writing. ‒ the interest in developing passenger transport by water is clear. however, the ecological, european and integrationist traits, with the stated desire to create an additional single area for waterway travellers and its almost inevitable risk of harming what remains of the french commercial fleet, make this report unacceptable. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the member states and the commission to organise more passenger transport by sea (in particular sea and inland ferries, freight and cruises). the enhancement and strengthening of the accessibility, safety and sustainability of the maritime transport sector will significantly improve mobility efficiency, environmental performance, quality of life, financial accessibility, congestion reduction in land transport networks and urban comfort.
in writing. ‒ the report starts from the two-fold clear observation that, on the one hand, the european geography with its rivers, coasts and islands is particularly suited to river, sea and lake transport. on the other hand, this mode of transport is under-exploited in favour of road transport. this leads to traffic congestion and increased pollution, especially in cities. the rapporteur wants to see the creation of a 'single area for passenger transport by water', something which fn-rbm meps have always opposed. this would inevitably accelerate the replacement, at least partially, of french ships by foreign ships and personnel. it called for the creation, as for the transport of maritime freight, of motorways of the sea for passengers by water, with the development of adequate infrastructure allowing intermodality with in particular land transport, and thus called on the member states to develop initiatives in this direction. of course, the emphasis is on the development of low-polluting fleets, with staff trained to ensure maximum safety, general access for people with reduced mobility, and even taking into account the needs of cyclists. all this is to allow the development of tourism, sustainable ... i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european union must ensure that aid for cooperation and development is more effective if it is to have a real impact on poverty alleviation in a context of growing humanitarian and development crises and resource scarcity.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which, although positive in that it aims to rationalise and make development aid more effective, also aims to mutualise cooperation actions, that is to say to take this competence away from the member states and give it to the commission, which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is necessary to make development cooperation as effective as possible. the aim is to meet the ambitious expectations set out in the 2030 agenda by making the best use of the resources, both public and private, allocated to it.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the improvements to be made to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. european aid is dispersed, with nearly 75% of it allocated by the member states according to national procedures in order to maintain a strong link with former colonies (france, the netherlands, spain, etc.). this is a recurring problem in this committee: the need for greater coordination with national policies is never taken into account. i abstained on that text.
in writing. - i have had occasion to say this before. too much aid kills aid, just as too much tax kills tax. there is no point in increasing the budgets allocated to humanitarian aid for developing countries if the corruption and the bribery, the greed and nepotism which too much of these countries suffer from are not eradicated. the evidence is striking. half a century of development aid and tens of billions of dollars wasted have, alas, done nothing to improve the lot of people who need it. europe has too often turned a blind eye to the massive misappropriations of the elderly, whether they call themselves mobutu or mugabe, abusing the pity, generosity and naivety of europeans. yes, the report welcomes the call for greater transparency, democracy and good governance from the beneficiaries of our aid. that's all it would take. but how many decades have sane politicians been making that call? it is to be feared that these words of goodwill will once again be left unanswered.
in writing. ‒ this report on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation highlights the improvements to be made to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. the eu is the world's largest donor (€68 billion in 2015, or 0.47 per cent of gni, compared with the target of 0.7 per cent of gni), but aid is still dispersed, with 75 per cent still managed by the member states. there is this problem of coordinating european policies with national policies. unfortunately, the radical clarification of the fields of eu and state development aid policies runs counter to my philosophy. this would give the commission more powers. however, some interesting avenues are proposed: including all participants, eradicating corruption and waste... with the aim of reducing dependence on development aid. i have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve the effectiveness of development aid programmes. the rapporteur draws attention to some interesting points, notably the fragmentation of aid and the lack of coordination between donors and states. it is true that better coordination between the european union's common multiannual programming framework and national policies would help to increase the effectiveness of development cooperation. however, this would be tantamount to giving the european commission new prerogatives at the expense of our national sovereignty. the report also recommends eradicating corruption and waste in the recipient countries in order to reduce their dependence on development aid in the long term. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. this report on enhancing the effectiveness of development cooperation rightly reminds the european union and its member states of their development aid commitments to devote 0.7% of their gni (gross national income) to development aid. i supported this text which underlines that while official development assistance plays a key role in poverty eradication and the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), progress in its implementation remains to be made. in particular, i think it is appropriate to stress the importance of transparency in tax systems and financial flows. corruption still present in many recipient countries is a significant obstacle to the achievement of our development goals.
in writing. ‒ this report discusses improvements to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. the european union is the world's largest donor, with €68 billion in development aid in 2015. the main problems highlighted were: the fragmentation of aid, the lack of coordination between donors, aid agencies and donor countries. this report provides some interesting ideas, notably on the accountability of the recipient countries and the need for transparency in programmes.
in writing. ‒ abstention: a clear request is made to the commission to facilitate access to transparency in programmes, to obtain more frequent reports on the efforts made, to inform national parliaments but also local authorities and civil society about the financial commitments made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen and improve development aid in emerging countries. this is to provide support that responds effectively to the needs of people in difficulty. therefore, our efforts must focus on the creation of effective and responsive institutions, sound policies, open democratic governance and anti-corruption safeguards within these countries. in the face of climate challenges and rapid demographic change in developing countries, member states must deliver on their commitments and set out a clear agenda for action so that developing countries can become self-sufficient tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr christian dan preda, on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. in response to the need to do more with less, the report highlights ways of improving the effectiveness of development aid for countries in difficulty. as the world's largest donor of development aid, it is important that the union has the operational tools to contribute to poverty eradication and the promotion of the sustainable development goals. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the effectiveness of development cooperation five years after the adoption of the partnership for effective action in busan and before the second summit of the global partnership for effective development cooperation in nairobi in december. the report stresses the importance of official development assistance and the need to 'do more with less', and calls for impact-oriented measures, better coordination and the involvement of local actors and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on 'improving the effectiveness of development cooperation'. the report highlights the improvements to be made to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. it addresses both problems such as the fragmentation of aid and the lack of coordination between donors, aid agencies and donor countries. the union is the world's largest donor. european aid is dispersed, with nearly 75% of it allocated by the member states according to national procedures in order to maintain a strong link with former colonies (france, the netherlands, spain, etc.). the commission wants to play a more important role, as always at the expense of the member states. however, the report does bring some interesting insights, such as the need to include all actors (including local actors, civil society, the private sector, national parliaments, trade unions) with a corollary of greater accountability. beneficiary countries are encouraged to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and eradicate corruption and waste, in order to reduce dependence on development aid in the long term.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the improvements to be made to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. european aid is dispersed, with nearly 75% of it allocated by the member states according to national procedures in order to maintain a strong link with former colonies (france, the netherlands, spain, etc.). this is a recurring problem in this committee: the need for greater coordination with national policies. i abstained on that text.
in writing. - i abstained for this text. the report aims to improve the system for distributing financial aid to developing countries, particularly african countries. the rapporteur notes that european aid is largely wasted because of its fragmentation and lack of coordination between aid agencies and donor countries. the report therefore encourages donor countries to increase the level of coordination, and recipient countries to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and fight corruption and waste. these measures are designed to reduce the long-term dependence of developing countries on international aid. however, this text remains very much in favour of integration. it criticises the current system in which member states have a great deal of freedom in allocating aid to countries of their choice (for example, former colonies with which economic ties remain strong). on the other hand, it envisages greater coordination at european level, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ in the face of growing global challenges such as migration, including climate-related, food security and peace, this report encourages better cooperation and coordination of development aid at international level. it recalls the commitment of states to devote 0.7% of their national income to official development assistance. it stresses that any policy of development and poverty eradication must be based on the promotion of state services and the provision of the means to produce and consume locally. on the one hand, it therefore notes that 'the strengthening of national public procurement systems is an essential element'. but on the other hand, it makes aid conditional on opening up to global competition. it stresses the obligation of the private sector to respect international social and environmental standards. but it also encourages them to participate in the development policy making process. finally, he warns, timidly enough, against the current european policy of siphoning off development aid in favour of migrant return operations. under these circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve aid programmes for developing countries, particularly in africa. several problems are highlighted, such as the fragmentation of aid and the lack of coordination between donors. the european union is the world's largest donor (€68 billion in 2015). the necessary coordination between europe and national policies to clarify the scope of development policy will only strengthen the power of the european commission. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the improvements to be made to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. european aid is dispersed, with nearly 75% of it allocated by the member states. this is a recurring problem: the need for increased coordination with national policies. there is a common multiannual programming framework between the union and the member states in a number of countries receiving european aid, and some countries wish to radically clarify the fields of development aid policies of the union and the member states. and this is obviously against our philosophy, because it is a watermark that gives more powers to the commission. this report brings some interesting insights such as the need to include all participants (including local actors, civil society, the private sector, national parliaments, trade unions), with a corollary of greater accountability. beneficiary countries are encouraged to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and eradicate corruption and waste, in order to reduce dependence on development aid in the long term.
in writing. ‒ this text offers some interesting ideas, notably on better cooperation between donors and the fight against corruption, but it would increase the commission's powers. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the improvements to be made to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. the report also highlights problems such as the fragmentation of aid, the lack of coordination between donors, aid agencies and donor countries. the eu is the world's largest donor (€68 billion in 2015, or 0.47% of gni, against the target of 0.7% of gni). european aid is dispersed, with nearly 75% of it allocated by the member states according to national procedures in order to maintain a strong link with former colonies (france, the netherlands, spain, etc.). this is a recurring problem in this committee: the need for greater coordination with national policies. there is a common multiannual programming framework between the union and the member states in a number of countries receiving european aid and some countries wish to radically clarify the fields of development aid policies of the union and the member states. the report therefore proposes to increase the commission's powers once again. so, despite the interesting hints and comments it contains, i cannot support it and i abstain.
in writing. ‒ at the meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation in nairobi at the end of november, it was important that the european union, as the world's leading donor of development aid, take a strong stand by stressing the need to improve transparency, good governance and the rule of law in developing countries. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which recalls that effective development cannot be guaranteed without peace and respect for human rights, which are essential conditions for achieving the sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the improvements to be made to the development aid programmes proposed for developing countries, particularly in africa. the report also highlights problems such as the fragmentation of aid, the lack of coordination between donors, aid agencies and donor countries. the eu is the world's largest donor (€68 billion in 2015). european aid is dispersed, with nearly 75% of it allocated by the member states according to national procedures in order to maintain a strong link with former colonies (france, the netherlands, spain, etc.). this is a recurring problem in this committee: the need for greater coordination with national policies which goes against our philosophy, since in the watermark it is giving more powers to the commission. this report brings some interesting insights such as the need to include all actors (including local actors, civil society, the private sector, national parliaments, trade unions) with a corollary of greater accountability. beneficiary countries are encouraged to adopt national development policies, consolidate public finances and eradicate corruption and waste, in order to reduce dependence on development aid in the long term. i have decided to abstain on this matter.
in writing. ‒ in 2002, the monterrey conference was supposed to move us from an era of concern about the volume of development aid to one of questioning the quality of it. in 2005, the paris declaration promised to align donor countries with the development goals of recipient countries. in 2011, the global partnership was to work towards decoupling the provision of this aid from any conditions imposed by the donor country. it is 2016 and the failure of these ambitions is clear. not only has the volume of aid not reached the level requested since 1970, but far from being aligned with local needs, aid is increasingly being used to serve the interests of european businesses, including in the fight against climate change, when it is not diverted to migration control. this report only very partially reflects this reality. it also takes a position which is contrary to the principles it sets out by claiming to decide what the aid should be used for in the first place. i abstained.
madam president, madam high representative, we are all daily amazed by the images we see, particularly in aleppo. we know the war crimes, we know the crimes against humanity, we know the responsibility of the assad regime and its accomplices, namely russia, iran and perhaps tomorrow mr trump's united states. i am always amazed to see the complacency of a number of politicians in this house towards putin. the same is true in our european countries. i see it in the french presidential campaign, and even in the right-wing primary in france with the candidate fillon. this complacency is political corruption today totally unbearable. so, since we are not going to go to war in aleppo, the means we have are sanctions against individuals and groups, economic sanctions against the putin regime. let's call for a boycott of the world cup in russia! we're not going to play football in moscow while russia bombs aleppo. let's take that responsibility on the sanctions! this is a means of action by the european union.
madam president, the new president of the united states has acknowledged the terrible responsibility of his predecessors in the emergence of the islamic state. his election as the leader of the first world power should finally change the situation, especially since he has clearly announced that he will join the russians. they are the only ones, along with the syrians, who are effectively fighting the barbaric islamists who have been ravaging this country for more than five years now. the situation would obviously be worse today if the americans had let mr hollande, mr valls and mr fabius do in syria what mr sarkozy, mr fillon and mr juppé did in libya: the total destruction of the country, which is now in the hands of the followers of sharia. we must indeed find the means to eradicate the islamic state and other jihadist groups who are committing equally heinous atrocities. we must help the people who have been the victims of these abuses, starting of course with the christians of the east, because the best way to help them is to allow them to continue living on their ancestral lands. helping them is not about driving them into exile and uprooting them by making promises we cannot keep, because we cannot afford to.
madam president, madam high representative, it so happened that i had the opportunity, with paul rubig, to visit a syrian refugee camp in turkey, some 100 kilometres from aleppo, and i felt the distress of these women and men who, no longer able to live in their country, their region, their city, decided to leave, simply to save their lives. they just want to go home. of course, that's not possible as long as there's a war going on. they are begging us europeans to do something to enable them to return to their land one day. it is a complicated war in which the warring actors are entangled, each bringing its share of misfortune: the great nations, with russia in the lead which you have mentioned several times, but also the neighbouring countries and, of course, bashar al-assad and the terrorists of daesh. in this context, i believe that the european union has a dual duty: first, to do everything possible to end the war and to achieve a ceasefire, and secondly to provide humanitarian aid. mrs. mogherini, you've worked hard. we are counting on you to continue along this path.
the question is "blue cardboard". hallelujah, there has been a miracle, mr. verhofstadt. for the first time, we hear you about turkey. so, to hit on russia, to hit on the national front, to hit on the populists... in fact, you're talking about turkey to talk about russia and the national front. you are a true balancer and i would even say that you are an opportunist, mr verhofstadt. you talk about turkey when there has been a problem with turkey for years. you're just opening your eyes now? i come now to my question: you are asking for the negotiations with turkey to be suspended. we're in chapter 17 of 32. but are you also calling for an end to the negotiations with turkey?
madam president, the european parliament is protesting against turkey's human rights violations in good conscience, but these protests are only intended to mislead public opinion, because the european union has submitted to turkey by accepting the shameful immigration agreement of 18 march 2016. erdoğan is mocking the union and is plunging his country further and further into islamist obscurantism. he has just claimed greek islands on the grounds that they will house turkish mosques and as we speak he is proposing that the turkish parliament should pass a law which will exempt rapists from punishment if they marry their victims, even if they are minors. rape and pedophilia will be legalized. the union nevertheless continues to accept turkey's accession. it has so completely abandoned european values that it is no longer even able to defend women and children. she's embracing radical islam. i call on france and other european nations to draw the consequences, as the uk has already done.
in writing. the question of relations between the european union and turkey is more relevant than ever, given the current social context in turkey. i would like to draw attention to a bill from the turkish government which was recently withdrawn following the scandal it caused. the question was whether a conviction for rape of a minor could be overturned if the offender married the victim. this type of 'arrangement' is already practised in several countries around the world. however, the requirement of the victim's consent to marriage is rarely met, as the victim is often pressured by family members to marry in order to avoid a 'scandal', for which the victims are regularly held responsible. although the turkish minister of the interior has announced the withdrawal of this bill, this news should alert us to the low regard for women in a country like turkey, which is resolutely incompatible with membership of the european union.
madam president, madam mogherini, in may i showed you a picture of what was left of a palestinian village after the israeli army had passed through. today i would like to complete my gallery by showing you what remains of a school and a playground that were financed, respectively, by france and belgium during the first quarter of 2016. how long, madam mogherini, will the european union continue to look the other way while mr netanyahu's government is advancing not the peace process but the land grabbing, the expulsions and the allocation of water resources for colonial purposes? it is high time that the european union asked itself how it can really act. there is only one way, only one method, to get mr netanyahu and the israeli government back to the negotiating table: to ensure that the dignity of the palestinian people is respected by suspending the preferential trade agreement between the european union and the state of israel.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to thank our colleague paşcu, on behalf of the epp, of which i was the fictitious rapporteur, for his excellent report, an annual report - it should be recalled - but which is of course particularly relevant today, after the important decisions you mentioned, madam high representative. unfortunately - and i am not speaking for you, madam high representative - it took brexit and the election of trump for many european countries to remember that defence and security should be a priority for europeans themselves. we could have wished that this awareness had come sooner because of the conflicts and crises around us that have such a dangerous impact. but better late than never. the european defence policy must be ambitious, but it must also be realistic, pragmatic and flexible, and i think you have outlined a number of ways in which we can make it happen. many things - we have been saying this for years - are already in the treaty and deserve to be implemented before we create - excuse me for using the expression - new gas plants. let me remind you of three points which i think are very important politically. firstly, a european defence policy must distance itself from two myths, the myth of the common european army, which does not help to make any concrete and pragmatic progress, and the myth of competition with nato, because that is not what is at issue. we are talking about complementarity, not competition. secondly, the transatlantic link: it is strong, but it is not a permanent achievement. what has just happened on the other side of the atlantic is a very good reminder that if we do not take care of our own safety, we may one day be in for some very unpleasant surprises. so we need to invest more in our defence and make more investment in industry and in really operational devices. thirdly, nato: it remains a major player in our collective security, that is clear. but, finally, nato, with its decision-making table at which mr erdoğan and soon mr trump sit, cannot be the guarantor of the security of the europeans. we must take matters into our own hands and it is time to turn good intentions and good words into concrete actions.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking to us about european defence. a european defence would require european sovereignty. there is no such sovereignty. the only one that exists is that of our states, which may cooperate, but which cannot be dissolved into the european entity, which exists only by the will of the nations and their free cooperation. a european defence would involve common interests. where are they? where are they? what interest does france share with those who have chosen to be submissive to nato, but also to be in a spirit of revenge, while wanting their revenge and resentment to be carried out by others because they cannot afford it? a european defence would imply a common foreign policy. the little common foreign policy is dictated by the united states, which is changing. we see it with russia. we are ridiculous. european defence would involve a controlled arms industry and strategic research. you have chosen complementarity with nato, that is to say, technological submission and external domination, again. in reality, european defence is a myth to use the nations still capable of defending themselves and preserving their own capabilities.
mr president, after congratulating mr paşcu on his report, i will take up your comments, mrs mogherini. you told us that the next american administration might place more responsibility on our shoulders. you're absolutely right. you said that about the israel-palestine relationship. i think that's true in a much more general way, and particularly in terms of security and defence. this is in line with mr trump's commitments, which ultimately call for a certain retreat of the united states and a disengagement, in any case, from the major conflict zones where the united states has worked a lot in recent years. this is in line with what was said by his predecessors. the only difference is, he's at risk of setting it up. this is also consistent with its tax obligations. he will have to find money, and i am sure that it will be taken from the us defence budget, which is an extremely large budget, as you have mentioned. so to say, as i have heard it sometimes here, that in the midst of the current crises which threaten us all, any european country is capable of protecting itself - i am not even talking about protecting others - is something that is totally false and totally irresponsible. we have today - you have recalled - the european defence industries, and i am not talking about the fantasy of a european army. arnaud danjean said very well that it was nothing. it is true that we have these instruments, but on one condition: that everyone should participate in them. but we see today that the european countries are making an effort per capita for their security and defence, which is about 1 to 10. do you think that we can really make a european defence by remaining in the present system or will you encourage and push each other to make efforts that are closer together?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a farce! yes, it was a joke! the russian communication, which is based on the facts of our foreign policy, the lies in iraq, the action outside the mandate of the united nations in libya, the destruction of the syrian state with the coup in ukraine and the expansion of nato against the word given with this logic of the union without borders, becomes propaganda. the false european propaganda denounced by the peoples of europe and even the americans, on the other hand, becomes the truth. it is also a farce in the eyes of democracy and the law. the facts are propaganda from outside, according to the correct bolshevik logic. just as the dissidents were once american agents, now they are russian agents. the parallel between russia and daesh, on the other hand, is a provocation, a disgrace! but this farce will turn into a tragedy with your vote. this denial of reality by your propaganda destroys all legitimacy of your assembly.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, as a member of the committee on culture and education, i can only welcome the fact that the major problem of acquiring basic knowledge is being raised. the consequences for youth employment are particularly disastrous. as i have said in many amendments in committee, the indicators in the 'education outlook 2015' report show that an individual with good literacy skills is 4.2 times more likely to find a job than an individual with poor literacy skills. at a time when many pseudo-educators want to ignore the basic skills of reading, writing and mathematics in favour of sometimes obscure subjects, it is good to recognize the indispensable nature of these. however, in this oral question, it seems that my colleagues are again suffering from amnesia and are forgetting article 6 of the tfeu, which leaves the member states with competence in the field of education and training. the commission, unusually, seems to be trying to be reasonable by suggesting that member states build on existing policy initiatives at national level. i invite my colleagues to do the same.
madam president, i am enthusiastically in favour of the introduction of a skills guarantee, because it is a highly modern concept which must be adapted to the changing nature of the professions. today, everyone must have the right to enrich their skills tree, because jobs are changing and we must adapt each employee, each young person to the new skills we need in the company and which we will need, because the whole employment pyramid will move. it is not through initial training or diplomas, but only through the development of skills - this personal enrichment - that we will be able to keep up with this huge movement and avoid that some fall into unemployment. but i would like to add that there is another extremely important advantage. i'd like to talk to you about what's happening in women's careers. the latter often have gaps in their careers, because they stop to take care of children, young children, disabled children, elderly parents and so what happens? they have a career lag which leads to an impoverishment of women. i think that with the lifelong skills guarantee we can rebuild life curricula, and we need to have this willingness to keep up with modernity. i therefore urge the member states to do so.
madam president, madam commissioner, 70 million europeans do not attain a basic level of reading and writing. at the same time, 40% of employers are unable to fill vacancies because they cannot find the necessary skills. it is therefore essential to reflect on the adequacy of our training. today, the aim of the skills guarantee is to ensure that as many low-skilled adults as possible acquire at least the basic skills in reading, writing, arithmetic and numeracy that are essential for finding a job. for this guarantee to be effective, two important elements must be emphasized, in my view. first, we must be able to identify those who lack skills, and in this area there are still many taboos and sometimes people who cannot read or write prefer to hide it. so we must change attitudes and remove inhibitions. the most disadvantaged areas and groups must also be targeted. finally, small and mediumsized enterprises must be encouraged to take part in continuing training on a rotating basis. we must, above all, move away from a logic that focuses on qualifications and finally move towards a logic of the valorisation of skills, towards modernity, as my colleague mrs morin-chartier has suggested.
in writing. there are now many different certifications and qualifications in the european union. this diversity, which is a richness for each member state, can sometimes appear as a brake on recruitment. the recognition of this diversity led to the establishment in 2008 of a 'european framework of certifications for lifelong learning'. the objectives of this framework have not been met. the commission therefore considers that this system should be revised with a new recommendation. however, in 2016, the commission has no more studies than in 2008. it is not in a position to assess the value of general and vocational training in one country over another. this is partly the value that would guarantee equivalent skills. in the same sense, it cannot guarantee the permeability between the different training systems. you use the term 'harmonisation', but in reality you should be talking about levelling down! the disparities are too great to achieve such harmonization without lowering the qualification and skills criteria. in addition, certain national specificities are again threatened by this system.
in writing. considering that disabled people have the right to a full life and to the same leisure, education and employment opportunities as everyone else, i wish to reaffirm my commitment to a struggle that affects too many people in the eu. in france alone, the fsl was signed by 100,000 people in 2014 and by approximately 169,000 people worldwide. since 2008 it has been an option in the baccalaureate and courses in sign language are growing everywhere in universities, showing solidarity with deaf people. this text, which is in the right direction, should make it possible to give official recognition to interpreters in sign languages, including the granting of a status within the european institutions similar to that of interpreters of spoken languages. it is a first step towards more social justice. there is still a long way to go to successfully integrate deaf people into all levels of society, and i will continue to fight to ensure these same rights.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of directive 2001/81/ec is a matter of environmental and public health priority. however, the environmental question should not become a burden for the states and economic actors. in this respect, i regret the rapporteur's proposal to strengthen the commission's control over national programmes and to abolish the mechanism for deduction of emissions from the international shipping sector. i am also strongly opposed to the inclusion of ammonia and methane in the scope of a new directive. in particular, i do not accept that methane should be covered by the new directive, even though it would only be included from 2030. this would penalise the agricultural sector, even though other european texts already deal specifically with this gas. the rapporteur believes that this issue should also be dealt with under the common agricultural policy. the opening of new administrative channels of appeal to citizens seems to serve a praiseworthy purpose of informing the public. it is in fact a further breach of the sovereignty of states, some of which, like france, already have a large arsenal of administrative and judicial remedies open to citizens. for all these reasons, and particularly because i believe that programmes to reduce air pollution should remain the responsibility of the states, i cannot support mrs girling's report, and i thank her for her excellent work.
mr president, commissioner, let us not be afraid of words, air pollution is a silent mass killer about which very little is said, but which is nevertheless a real massacre. i've been chairman of an air quality monitoring network for a long time, and i'm well-versed in the subject. in france alone, this pollution is thought to be responsible for 48,000 premature deaths a year, or up to two years less life expectancy. in some urban areas, breathing the air is as dangerous as smoking ten cigarettes a day. we are well placed to know this, as brussels is one of the most polluted cities in europe. it is therefore urgent for the european union to protect its citizens from this public health scourge. i congratulate mrs girling on having obtained this agreement despite the reluctance of the member states. the ambitious target of reducing deaths from air pollution by nearly 50% by 2030 should be our guide. however, the best is often the enemy of the good and all the goodwill in the world would not have been enough to implement this text if we had remained entrenched in unattainable goals. that is why i am pleased that this agreement includes more realistic, graduated national emission ceilings which leave member states some flexibility in how they achieve these targets. the principle of subsidiarity must therefore apply. finally, i am satisfied that methane emissions do not fall within the scope of this directive because this legal framework would not have been the right one for methane. that would have only created additional complications for our farmers who really do not need that at the moment.
madam president, limiting global warming is necessary to safeguard the future of mankind. 197 countries have taken note of this and signed the paris agreement in 2015, committing to reduce their carbon emissions. the marrakesh conference, known as cop22, has just taken stock of the launch of the first concrete measures. the results are still modest, but encouraging. first, the $100 billion green fund will be used to help liberia and nepal with about $2 million each. second, a platform of 2050 strategies brings together 22 states, 15 major cities, 17 regions and 196 companies to accelerate the reduction of carbon emissions. third, germany is committed to reaching the "zero emissions" target by 2050 and will host the next climate conference a year from now. however, it is feared that we will not be able to avoid climate change that will generate crises and migration. all states, including the united states of america, must continue to cooperate in order to mitigate the scale of the problem.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr buzek, you are very sensitive to the problem of global warming you want action but i wonder whether strong and binding climate agreements at the level of each state are compatible with free trade agreements. do you not think that agreements such as tafta and ceta are incompatible with climate agreements? what is your position on this?
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the host country of the 22nd united nations conference on climate action, morocco, which has worked to ensure that this cop is part of the historic agreement adopted last year in paris. cop21 marked a turning point in international cooperation to combat climate change. this deal is sealed. every state, every people must now honour their commitments. in marrakesh this year and in bonn tomorrow, the focus must be on the implementation of the paris agreement. we can see that cop22 has initiated this dynamic, but the negotiations are still slow and difficult. let me draw your attention to the subject of water. i regret that we too often take the provision of good quality and sufficient quantity of water for granted. yet climate change and population growth are threats unprecedented. eighty percent of jobs in the world depend on access to a water supply. good water management is therefore a priority challenge. it's a cross-cutting issue that should be at the heart of climate action. cop22 devoted a day to water, which is a breakthrough. this event highlighted the hyperactivity of civil society, which innovates, invents and develops every day to improve water management and rationalize its uses. water stakeholders are ready to take on this challenge. what we need today is a policy framework and a framework for action to unlock the potential of the blue economy. several key principles seem to me to be priorities: better consideration of the interaction with climate and the generalization of the river basin system, the most relevant scale for good water management. the success of the cop depends on better water management. it is a vital resource for life that deserves our full attention in our climate action.
madam president, commissioner, it is clear that the paris agreement at cop21 was a great moment of global awareness on the issue of global warming. the fact that it was implemented effectively and quickly, after the agreement of the european union, but also of major states such as china, which is now the driving force in this field, and the united states, was another good news. the cop22 in marrakech confirmed and extended this commitment, which is the third good news. but there is also bad news, the election of donald trump in the united states, who has expressed his desire to withdraw from the agreement. the united states is, until further notice, an integral part of our planet. they would also do well to be aware of the consequences of global warming in their own territory, including the climatic disturbances they regularly experience. if all countries come together to push the united states to abide by its signature, we have some chance of success, but it takes all countries coming together, including ngos and all stakeholders.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. ‒ the draft calendar presented this week for 2018 maintains the traditional sessions in strasbourg (twelve are on the agenda) and limits the mini-sessions in brussels (only three are planned). we are very fond of the strasbourg seat, which is officially the only seat of the european parliament and the only european union institution based in france. we can therefore be satisfied that this project will not upset the organisation of parliament in order to strengthen the brussels site even further, as a number of members have regularly called for, even launching petitions for the complete abandonment of strasbourg. in these circumstances, as a frenchman, supporting this draft calendar can be seen as a way of defending the interests of the city of strasbourg and of france and i have therefore supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the draft calendar presented this week for 2018 maintains the traditional sessions in strasbourg (twelve are on the agenda) and limits the mini-sessions in brussels (only three are planned). as french people, we have always defended the seat of strasbourg, which is officially the only seat of the european parliament and the only institution of the european union based in france. we can therefore be satisfied that this project will not upset the organisation of parliament in order to strengthen the brussels site even further, as a number of members have regularly called for, even launching petitions for the complete abandonment of strasbourg. in these circumstances, as a frenchman, supporting this draft calendar can be seen as a way of defending the interests of the city of strasbourg and of france: that is what i have done.
in writing. ‒ the presentation of parliament's sessions is often an attempt to strengthen the power of brussels at the expense of the seat of strasbourg. as a frenchwoman and elected representative of the grand est region, and even though i am firmly opposed to this technocratic eu, i believe that the power of strasbourg should not be diminished in relation to brussels. the usual timetable with the main sessions in strasbourg and brussels for the mini-sessions still respects the balances. i would therefore be against any repatriation of parliament's activities to brussels, which would be harmful to local commerce and the hotel industry.
in writing. ‒ the 2018 draft calendar aims to maintain the traditional sessions in strasbourg and to limit the mini-sessions in brussels. as a french member of the european parliament, i am naturally pleased to see that this project does not call into question the existence of the parliament in strasbourg in favour of the brussels site, as some members of parliament have been saying. by supporting this calendar, we are defending the interests of the city of strasbourg and, in a certain sense, those of france. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this vote was to adopt the calendar of parliament's parliamentary sessions in 2018. i am pleased to see that the number of mini-sessions in brussels has fallen sharply compared to previous years; it should be remembered that the european parliament has its seat in strasbourg. i voted for this calendar.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the draft calendar presented this week for 2018 maintains the traditional sessions in strasbourg (twelve are on the agenda) and limits the mini-sessions in brussels (only three are planned). the front national elected representatives have always supported the retention of the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg, against the demands of other parliamentarians. for this reason alone, we support this calendar.
in writing. ‒ vote for: we can therefore be satisfied that this project will not upset the organisation of the parliament to further strengthen the brussels site.
in writing. ‒ i am satisfied with the european parliament's calendar of activities for the year 2018. i think that this time the timetable is in keeping with the spirit of the treaties, since twelve plenary sessions are held in strasbourg and the july session does not take place during the week of the french national day, as has been the case in the past. i am concerned, however, about the deviations observed this year, which tend to increase the agenda of the extraordinary sessions in brussels and empty those in strasbourg, which in the long term would lead to delegitimising the existence of the seat of the parliament in the alsatian capital. it is a treacherous strategy against which we french and all those who respect the treaties and the rule of law should rise with the greatest vehemence.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary calendar for 2018 was voted by a large majority of parliamentarians. i welcome the reduction in the number of mini plenary sessions in brussels from 10 in 2015 to 3 in 2018. i maintain that the european parliament in strasbourg, which is its official seat, must be used effectively by concentrating all plenary sessions there and by rationalising the expenditure on the shuttle services between brussels and strasbourg. i am glad that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this calendar, which reduces the number of mini-sessions in brussels and thus strengthens the seat in strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft estimated timetable for our work for 2018. i am pleased to see a sharp decrease in the number of 'mini-plenaries' scheduled in brussels, which will be reduced to three in 2018 (compared to 10 in 2015, 5 in 2016 and 5 also in 2017). it is important that the bulk of our votes take place in plenary in strasbourg, the official and sole seat of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the draft calendar presented this week for 2018 maintains the traditional sessions in strasbourg (twelve are on the agenda) and limits the mini-sessions in brussels (only three are planned). we are very fond of the strasbourg seat, which is officially the only seat of the european parliament, and the only institution of the european union based in france. we can therefore be satisfied that this project will not upset the organisation of parliament in order to strengthen the brussels site even further, as a number of members have regularly called for, even launching petitions for the complete abandonment of strasbourg. in these circumstances, as a frenchman, supporting this draft calendar can be seen as a way of defending the interests of the city of strasbourg and of france, and i was therefore able to support this proposal.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this text maintains the sessions in strasbourg, and limits the mini-sessions to brussels, which we support since strasbourg is officially the only seat of the european parliament. it is desirable for france to maintain the only eu institution based on its metropolitan territory and in this sense this calendar respects our interests.
in writing. ‒ one of the tasks of parliament is to determine the timetable for its sessions. in the proposed calendar for 2018, important national commemorations are respected. it does not propose sessions on 8 may, the day of the capitulation of the nazi armies, nor on 14 july, the revolutionary beginning of the modern era, nor on 11 november, the day of the defeat of german imperialism. we can participate in the ceremonies without being penalized for our absence from the session. i am voting for and strongly encourage this attitude which respects europe's important history.
in writing. ‒ the draft calendar presented for 2018 maintains the traditional sessions in strasbourg but limits the mini-sessions to brussels (only three are planned). we are very fond of the strasbourg seat, which is officially the only seat of the european parliament and the only european union institution based in france. we can therefore be satisfied that this project does not yet strengthen the brussels site, as a number of members have regularly called for, even launching petitions for the complete abandonment of strasbourg. in these circumstances, as a frenchwoman, supporting this draft calendar is a way of defending the interests of the city of strasbourg and of france. i therefore support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the draft calendar presented this week for 2018 maintains the traditional sessions in strasbourg (twelve are on the agenda) and limits the mini-sessions in brussels (only three are planned). we are very fond of the strasbourg seat, which is officially the only seat of the european parliament and the only european union institution based in france. we can therefore be satisfied that this project will not upset the organisation of parliament in order to strengthen the brussels site even further, as a number of members have regularly called for, even launching petitions for the complete abandonment of strasbourg. in these circumstances, as french people, supporting this draft calendar can be seen as a way of defending the interests of the city of strasbourg and of france, and we can therefore support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this calendar is essentially the same as the calendar of previous years. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i support this new calendar of parliament's sessions, which aims to reduce the number of plenary sessions in brussels and to refocus plenary work on strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ the draft calendar presented this week for 2018 maintains the traditional sessions in strasbourg (twelve are on the agenda) and limits the mini-sessions in brussels (only three are planned). i am very fond of the strasbourg seat, which is officially the only seat of the european parliament. i am therefore satisfied with this draft calendar.
in writing. ‒ we have adopted the calendar of plenary sessions of the european parliament for 2018. it comprises 15 plenary sessions, including three additional mini-sessions in brussels alone. we wanted to limit the addition of additional sessions in brussels in order to save money, whereas the agenda in strasbourg is often not sufficiently filled. our ultimate aim would be to abolish the plenary sessions in brussels. i would also like to stress the importance of recognising strasbourg as the official seat of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted for referral to the court of justice of the european union. this vote is a defeat for transparency and for democracy! the content of the ceta agreement is still surrounded by legal uncertainties which need to be resolved: what is the legal weight of the 38 additional declarations included in the outcome of the wallonia-led arms race? is the regulatory cooperation mechanism constitutional? is the new investment dispute settlement system (ids) compatible with european law? i regret the decision by a majority in the european parliament to reject this referral. it's a political mistake! in doing so, parliament leaves to others the task of doing what it should have done itself, on behalf of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this text determines whether ceta is compatible with the european treaties, in particular with regard to the court of justice of the european union (cjeu). if we are not in favour of the cjeu, which undermines our sovereignty, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which would waste time on the implementation of the dangerous ceta treaty since we will have to wait for the cjeu's judgment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i want a break in the negotiation of free trade agreements. these only make sense in relation to a vision and a project for europe. i do not intend to approve ceta then. i think, however, that parliament should refrain from resorting to the judge to decide its policy options.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, of course, because it is about ensuring that the part of ceta on investment protection and investor-state dispute settlement is compatible with articles 19, 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (discrimination, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services within the union and to third states, court of justice of the european union). i am opposed to the aecg, better known by its english acronym of ceta, the little brother of the disastrous ttip (in english ttip or tafta).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of ceta with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the proposal seeks referral to the court of justice of the european union to verify that ceta is compatible with the european treaties. our group is strongly opposed to ceta. we therefore support anything that might delay its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on this opinion mainly because it was not an answer to the questions that ceta may raise on the substance and i have no desire to participate in an ideological vote. i do not have a firm position on ceta, because i think there is too little evidence to say whether i am in full conscience in favour of it or not. this treaty can bring benefits to the european union. however, i regret that parliament is not more clearly involved and i think it is necessary to wait for new concrete elements before deciding. it is not the opinion of the court of justice, however judicious it may be, which will answer all the economic and social questions which european citizens, like myself, are entitled to ask themselves.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, tabled by 89 meps, proposes to refer the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) to the court of justice of the european union to verify its compatibility with eu law. considering that the legal service of the european parliament has found no contradiction between the content of ceta, in particular the chapter on investment, and the european treaties, and that this resolution has the sole purpose of slowing down the process of ratification of ceta, i voted, together with my colleagues from the french delegation of the epp, against this resolution.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union known as the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). parliament's legal services have already been mobilised to address the same concerns as those expressed in this motion for a resolution and have already confirmed the compatibility of the provisions of ceta with our treaties. the ceta agreement with canada represents a great opportunity for citizens and businesses in the union. we must speed up the process of putting the text to the vote of parliament as quickly as possible and put an end to the political manoeuvres of the opponents of this agreement to delay its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which asks for an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of the trade agreement between the european union and canada with the european treaties. this request is an initiative of the farms opposed to ceta, which accuse the commission of not having respected the treaties in the negotiations of this agreement, which is not the reality. ceta is a quality agreement, which will allow our companies to access canadian public procurement, while protecting our agricultural and food models, for example through the recognition of european geographical indications. the european union is the world's leading trading power and must not stand alone. the opening up of our markets represents important opportunities for a large number of sectors; it is also an opportunity to allow european standards to become international standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution requesting the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) to deal with the ceta agreement in order to remove the legal uncertainties surrounding the new investment dispute settlement system, whose compatibility with the treaties is raised. the majority of the parliament did not make that choice. it would have reassured public opinion and european citizens, who were very divided on the question of ceta. the opinion of the ecj would have provided the necessary clarity.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the resolution seeks to ensure that ceta is compatible with the freedoms defined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, particularly as regards investment protection. we are strongly opposed to this free trade agreement and hope that this procedure before the court of justice of the european union will help to stop the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to determine whether ceta is compatible with the european treaties (court of justice of the european union).
in writing. ‒ i voted for referral to the court of justice of the european union to verify the compatibility of ceta with the european treaties, even though this desperate attempt to gain time was doomed to fail in advance. this failure is in itself a scandal and shows that the majority - if i may say so - of this parliament fears that major incompatibilities will indeed be revealed. this comprehensive trade agreement with canada is the draft of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) which the commission continues to want to negotiate with the united states. he has all the vices, but is curiously considered by some, including françois hollande, as less dangerous because he has concluded with a partner who is considered less predatory and more loyal. it is a bit easy to forget that canada has been linked since 1994 to the united states, as well as mexico, by a free trade agreement, nafta. the election of mr trump has given rise to the tremendous hope of the death of ttip, rejected by a large majority of european and american citizens. ratifying ceta would be tantamount to betraying the people once again by hypocritically and in a twisted way bringing the wolf back into the fold. and that will be the sole responsibility of this parliament.
in writing. ‒ there are serious doubts about the legal validity of ceta: it is to remove these doubts that i voted in favour of the referral to the court of justice, before i could take a decision on this agreement. this is too important a question to leave in the dark. it considers it necessary to clarify that there can be no transfer from public deliberation to opaque negotiations through the icsi, this new dispute settlement mechanism created to settle disputes between investors, almost exclusively multinational firms, and states. there are very serious doubts about the compatibility of ceta with the eu treaties. only the court of justice can really establish that. this is essential if we are to regain the confidence of our citizens. it is a matter of fighting to ensure that the regulation of globalisation is no longer carried out at the expense of democratic principles.
in writing. ‒ in my view, this compatibility initiative, which is opposed to ceta in every possible way, is a very good obstacle, albeit temporary, to the application of the treaty, since we will have to wait for the judgment of the court of justice of the european union. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the agreement with canada. this pure parliamentary obstructionist maneuver would have delayed the ratification of the agreement by the european parliament by two years. the legal services of the european parliament had already considered that the agreement was perfectly compatible with the treaties. it was therefore not necessary to delay the process for two years in order to obtain the opinion of the court of justice. furthermore, since belgium had already expressed its willingness to seek the opinion of the court on the matter, without this impeding the process of ratification and provisional application of ceta, it was unnecessary to make a similar request. the resolution was rejected by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it was a chance alliance between the greens, the far left, the far right and certain french socialists who, by seeking an opinion from the court of justice, were seeking above all to use parliamentary obstruction to delay the ratification of the agreement with canada. this agreement, which will further protect our protected geographical indications, has already been too long in coming. there is no question of blocking it for the wrong reasons.
in writing. ‒ the agreement with canada raises many questions about its impact, both economically and legally. in addition to the trade openings which represent many risks for industrial jobs and the agricultural sector, a whole parallel legislative system is created by the agreement. to reduce the differences in standards between the european union and canada, it creates a regulatory cooperation mechanism that aims to write future laws with both hands, multiplying entry points for lobbyists, accompanied by a private court system that could convict a state if the laws go against the interests of investors. this resolution, which i co-signed and supported, asked the court of justice of the european union to take up this issue and to tell us clearly where the powers of the treaty with canada end, in particular the privileges it provides for investors. by dropping this text, a whole question on the legal order of the agreement with canada is avoided after the rejection of the democratic debate. this is all the more worrying when we consider the impact this agreement will have in the future on our jobs, as well as on how we make our laws.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union (ceta). the resolution seeks to ensure that the part of ceta on investment protection and the resolution of investment disputes between investors and states is compatible with articles 19, 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union concerning discrimination, freedom of establishment, and the freedom to provide services within the union and to third states.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to ensure that the part of ceta on investment protection and the settlement of investor-state investment disputes is compatible with articles 19, 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (discrimination, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services within the union and to third states, court of justice of the european union). we are certainly not in favour of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu), which overlooks the states and diminishes our sovereignty. however, the vote on this proposal would delay the implementation of the dangerous free trade agreement with canada (ceta), since it will be dependent on the judgment of the cjeu. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because there are good reasons for delaying the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ today we voted a resolution on the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union (ceta). the importance of the debate triggered by ceta warrants the union to act with certainty and full knowledge of the facts. there are still too many areas of uncertainty about the legal value of the additional declarations included in ceta. that is why i supported this resolution calling for referral to the court of justice of the european union of the compatibility of the investment dispute settlement mechanism with the treaties. i regret, however, the choice made by a majority of meps to reject this referral, whereas parliament is merely exercising its right on behalf of all european citizens.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the purpose of this text is to verify the compatibility of part of ceta with many articles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), in particular on discrimination, freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services within the union and to third states. although we are not in favour of the court of justice of the european union, voting for this text will, pending the court's ruling, make it possible to roll back the application of ceta, a treaty which is catastrophic for france's interests.
in writing. ‒ the recently concluded trade agreement between the european union and canada (ceta) is much more than a traditional free trade agreement. since the aim is not only to dismantle customs duties but also to harmonise standards, the content of this 'mega-agreement' should be carefully analysed before it can be put to the vote of parliamentarians. it is clear that the substance of the ceta agreement is still shrouded in uncertainties that no one is able to dispel. for example, thanks to the fight led by paul magnette and the walloon socialists, 38 additional declarations were added to ceta, but some of them are contradictory: the commission was not able to specify, in these cases, which text should prevail. there is also considerable uncertainty as to the compatibility or incompatibility of the investment protection scheme (ics) with community law. i therefore not only supported but also co-signed the resolution proposing that the european parliament should refer the outstanding issues to the court of justice of the european union. in my view, this is an absolutely essential precaution in the context of a democratic exercise of ratification of an international treaty.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the court of justice of the european union to be seized to verify the compatibility of ceta, and more particularly the aspects concerning arbitration tribunals, with the european treaties. in fact, even if it is found to be compatible, i will maintain my opposition to ceta in its entirety and in its details. nevertheless, i am seizing this opportunity to block the conclusion of the agreement. i am voting for this resolution, which i have also co-signed.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to ensure that the part of ceta on investment protection and investor-state dispute settlement is compatible with articles 19, 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (discrimination, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services within the union and to third states, court of justice of the european union). this text aims to clarify the compatibility of ceta with the european treaties. so i said yes.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to ensure that the part of ceta on investment protection and the settlement of investor-state investment disputes is compatible with articles 19, 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (discrimination, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services within the union and to third states, court of justice of the european union). the purpose of this text is to clarify whether ceta is compatible with the european treaties. we are opposed to this type of treaty, since it could raise legal incompatibilities and therefore delay its possible implementation, and we are in favour of this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to clarify whether ceta is compatible with the european treaties, which will help to slow down the adoption of the treaty. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which sought the opinion of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) on the compatibility of ceta with the treaties. this text is a ruse used by groups opposed to ceta to delay its provisional implementation. indeed, applying to the cjeu will delay the application of the treaty by at least two years, which will penalise our producers and industries, particularly in terms of access to public contracts as allowed by the treaty. in addition, belgium will already apply to the cjeu as a state, which will not affect the provisional application of ceta.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to ensure that the part of ceta on investment protection and the settlement of investor-state investment disputes is compatible with articles 19, 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (discrimination, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services within the union and to third states, court of justice of the european union). the purpose of this text is to clarify whether ceta is compatible with the european treaties. i support this resolution, which could delay the implementation of this abominable treaty. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution requesting a legal opinion from the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) to verify the compatibility of ceta with the treaties. this is yet another political maneuver by the far left, but it deserves a real explanation. the depositors of the resolution made it appear that they needed all the elements in hand to make a final decision on the vote on the agreement. i should like to know why 82 of the 89 signatories to the resolution have already said they will reject ceta! they accuse the commission, the guardian of the treaties, of having negotiated a trade agreement with the help of 28 member states without respecting the treaties. yet, she always followed and defended them, even becoming zealous! to seek an opinion from the cjeu would take two years. belgium is expected to do so anyway! in voting against this resolution, i voted against the political maneuvering of the extremists, who wanted to do what they do best: make useless duplicates.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has voted on a resolution calling on the court of justice of the european union to rule on the legality of ceta, the proposed free trade agreement with canada. trade in itself is not a bad thing; it would be unrealistic or unfair to say otherwise. the links between europe and canada are old, we need both sides of the atlantic to be able to exchange goods and services. but trade cannot be at the expense of our ability to legislate, and ceta must not discriminate between european and canadian companies. it is because the court of justice is the only body capable of deciding these difficult legal questions that i have supported this resolution. unfortunately, our house has decided otherwise, which i regret, but i will remain extremely vigilant with the french socialist delegation on the developments in this text. the european parliament's vote remains an essential step in the implementation of the treaty, so the legislative work is far from complete.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution of which i am a signatory calling on the european parliament to refer the matter to the court of justice to examine the compatibility of the ceta agreement with the european treaties. the scope of many provisions of the trade agreement remains uncertain, such as the additional declarations, the regulatory cooperation mechanism and the investment dispute settlement system. without prejudice to the final position of the european parliament on ceta, an opinion of the court of justice of the european union would have clarified the scope and legal consequences of the agreement and allowed the european legislator to make an informed decision. the majority of members of this house chose to vote against this resolution and i regret it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution tabled individually by 89 members and requesting an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of the ceta agreement between the european union and canada with the european treaties. such a request would postpone the entry into force of the ceta agreement once again, which will allow our companies and citizens to benefit from many advantages such as access to public procurement, the abolition of many customs duties and the protection of geographical indications. after overcoming many obstacles, it is time for ceta to enter into force provisionally. in addition, the legal service of the european parliament has already issued a legal opinion which has been published and which states that the new ics mechanism, for which a legal opinion is here requested in the context of ceta, is compatible with the european treaties.
in writing. ‒ the draft free trade agreement negotiated between canada and the european union is the subject of a heated debate, justified by the often destructive consequences of free trade and reinforced by the opacity of the negotiations. the impact of a possible ceta agreement on the way of life of european citizens is too important not to be examined in depth. it is a democratic imperative. among the points of debate is the question of the conformity of such a trade agreement with the european treaties, such as the system of dispute settlement between multinationals and states (ics). many legal experts expressed doubts, which justified the consultation of the court of justice of the european union. i consider that parliament, as the institution that safeguards the interests of the citizens, is legitimate in bringing the matter before it. that is why i, together with 88 other members from five political groups, have proposed a resolution to that effect, so that we have all the necessary elements for a decision when the draft final agreement is submitted to us. i therefore helped to promote and voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to ensure that the part of ceta on investment protection and the settlement of investor-state investment disputes is compatible with articles 19, 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (discrimination, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services within the union and to third states, court of justice of the european union cjeu). the purpose of this text is to verify the compatibility of ceta with the european treaties (ecj). if we are not in favour of the cjeu, the vote on this motion for a resolution will waste time on the implementation of the dangerous ceta treaty, since we will have to wait for the cjeu's judgment. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ there is no need to go back to ceta, the free trade agreement between the european union and canada, the little brother or trojan horse of tafta. following belgium's decision to refer the ceta to the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) to verify the compatibility of the ceta, including its arbitration mechanism, with the european treaties, the gue/ngl and the greens tabled a motion to join the procedure. we thought it was indecent to vote on this motion without any debate. at the beginning of the plenary session we therefore called for a debate, but our proposal was rejected by 184 votes to 170, with 9 abstentions, and the resolution itself to refer the matter to the court of justice of the european union was rejected by 419 votes to 258, with 22 abstentions. this rejection is an affront to democracy. ceta contains some dark spots, some legal uncertainties which the european parliament would have been honoured to clarify. why are the supporters of these agreements so afraid of the court's decisions? the fight continues; we look forward to the court's ruling.
in writing. ‒ after three years of negotiations, i welcome the fact that the council and the european parliament have finally reached an agreement. air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year, including more than 50 000 in france. it was therefore imperative that the european parliament adopt the 'air quality' legislative package today. it's done now. the main objective is to address the health risks and environmental effects of air pollution.
in writing. ‒ this report is unacceptable in many respects: it significantly strengthens the commission's regulatory power and reinforces the eu's prerogatives over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. the text also abolishes certain facilities previously granted to states. we cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, because such an inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint on the agricultural sector. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measured text because it is abnormal that air pollution in the union is still causing 400 000 premature deaths every year. i therefore welcome this proposal, but i would point out that despite this legislation, pollution levels will remain above the who recommendations in much of the union.
in writing. ‒ the report consists of a series of amendments by the envi committee concerning the reduction of national emissions of directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants. the purpose of this text is to replace the abovementioned directive, in particular in line with the international commitments of the european union (gothenburg protocol, 1999). the ceilings imposed on member states are intended to achieve 70% of the maximum technically feasible reduction in health effects, as defined by the who. they shall be determined unilaterally by the commission. i cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, because such an inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint on the agricultural sector, let alone the gas sector which includes a growing share of biomethane.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the envi report on the reduction of national emissions of directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants. this report is not satisfactory for two reasons. first, it significantly strengthens the commission's regulatory power and reinforces the eu's prerogatives over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. finally, we cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, because such an inclusion would be too burdensome for the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to amend directive 2001/81/ec which sets national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and methane. the revision calls for the member states to tighten up their legislation in order to achieve ambitious targets for 2020 and 2030. on the one hand, this report considerably strengthens the regulatory power of the commission and the prerogatives of the european union in the development of emission reduction programmes to the detriment of our national sovereignty. the rapporteur also calls for a reduction in methane emissions, which will increase the pressure on the agricultural sector, which is already facing serious difficulties due to the fall in the price of raw materials, the russian embargo and the proliferation of free trade agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the reduction of national emissions of air pollutants, which is part of the commission's legislative package on improving air quality. this is a first reading agreement on the downward revision of national emission ceilings for five pollutants for 2020. ambitious emission reduction commitments are needed to address the health and environmental impacts of air pollutants. the agreement reached in the trilogue excludes the emission of enteric methane from ruminants from the scope of the directive. this withdrawal helps to protect european agriculture and to maintain coherence between the union's policies, in particular environmental policy and the common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to adopt the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations on the directive on national emission ceilings for pollutants (necd). the aim of this text is to replace the current eu regime for the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants and to ensure that the national emission ceilings for member states apply until 2020. i fully share the objectives of this text, which aims in particular to reduce the impact on human health of pollutant emissions, which cause a large number of deaths each year. i was also particularly committed, in the agri and envi committees, to ensuring that these limits were nevertheless reasonable and realistic as regards methane (ch4) and more particularly enteric methane. enteric methane, which is a waste product exclusively from ruminant farming, is very difficult to reduce unless the animals are confined all year round. i am glad that enteric methane is no longer included in the ceilings in question and that at the same time the level of ambition of this legislation has remained very high. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i supported the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants. since air quality is a common problem for all member states, the fight against air pollution is one of the main missions of the european union. this directive will allow us to step up our efforts by limiting the emissions of europe's biggest air pollutants with binding targets for 2020, 2025 and 2030. while air pollution is responsible for around 400 000 premature deaths in the european union each year, i welcome the ambitious target we have set to reduce by 2030 the mortality due to air pollution by almost 50%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the revision of a directive setting national emission ceilings for five pollutants. it is important that regulations protect european citizens from environmental pollution, which is a public health problem to be taken very seriously. the directive sets ambitious targets, such as the reduction of deaths due to air pollution by 50%. but at the same time it includes realistic national emission ceilings which respect the principle of subsidiarity of the member states. thus, each country can and must commit to reducing its emissions of air pollutants. i am also pleased that enteric methane has been excluded from the substances listed in this directive. it seemed relatively difficult to integrate it in a consistent way, as emissions of this methane are very difficult to measure. this exclusion was essential in the interest of european farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets national emission ceilings for five pollutants (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia and fine particulate matter) and excludes methane (which comes from 50% of agricultural activities) from the directive to address the concerns of the european agricultural sector. i have already had occasion to comment on the issue of methane from ruminants. it was absurd to want to limit these emissions, except to ignore livestock farming and the active role that the agricultural world also plays in the fight against global warming through the maintenance of grasslands and countrysides, real carbon sinks.
in writing. - i voted against this text. i spoke in plenary on this proposal by mrs julie girling, amending the text of directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants. the proposals by julie girling strengthen the powers of the european union to the detriment of the member states, and remove certain facilities granted to them (reductions in emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and particulate matter from international maritime trade).
in writing. ‒ vote against: we are not satisfied with this report in many respects: it significantly strengthens the commission's regulatory power and reinforces the eu's prerogatives over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. the text also abolishes certain facilities previously granted to states. we cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, because such an inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint on the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union must protect its citizens from the public health scourge of air pollution. it is a silent mass killer, responsible for 48,000 premature deaths in france each year. in some urban areas, breathing the air is as dangerous as smoking 10 cigarettes a day! the new directive therefore requires national emission ceilings for five pollutants to be set in order to achieve the ambitious target of reducing air pollution deaths by almost 50% by 2030. i am, however, satisfied that methane emissions do not fall within the scope of this directive. it was not the right legal framework and it would have only created additional complications for our farmers.
in writing. ‒ i am not satisfied with this agreement, which has the effect of increasing the regulatory power of the commission and the eu's grip on its member states, which are deprived of certain facilities previously granted to them. finally, the inclusion of methane in the directive is a serious blow to the agricultural sector. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague julie girling on air pollutant emissions. the text specifically targeted five pollutants, including nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and fine particulate matter, with the aim of reducing them sharply by 2030. the union has recorded almost 400 000 pollution-related deaths in europe, which also has repercussions in terms of health expenditure or lost working days. this report is therefore part of the concrete measures to combat urban pollution, in the interests of our citizens. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets new emission ceilings for several air pollutants. air pollution has become a major concern in public opinion because of its harmful effects on health and the environment. the existing directive on national emission ceilings had to be replaced and new emission ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds had to be set for 2020 and 2030. i also voted in favour of this report because it extends the scope of the directive to include micro-particles from 2020 onwards.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on emissions of certain air pollutants. the text considerably strengthens the commission's regulatory power and reinforces the prerogatives of the european union over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. the text also abolishes certain facilities previously granted to states. i cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, because such an inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint for the french agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ this report is not satisfactory in several respects. first, it strengthens the commission's regulatory power and the eu's prerogatives over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. in addition, the text abolishes certain facilities previously granted to states. i also do not want to support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, as such inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint for the agricultural sector (as compared to livestock farming). i voted strongly against this report.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is the number one environmental health risk in europe, causing more than 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year, including more than 50 000 in france. in response to this, the european commission presented its 'air quality' legislative package in december 2013. the main objective of this draft legislation is to address the health risks and environmental effects of air pollution. despite the good intentions of this report on emissions of certain pollutants, it is disappointing in several respects: firstly, it lacks ambition on the emission thresholds for pollutants. on the other hand, the overseas territories are excluded from the scope of the draft legislation on which the report we are voting on today is based. this differential treatment between the metropolis and the overseas territories cannot be tolerated; all citizens, whether local or european, should be able to benefit from the same protection of air quality. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this report is to amend directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants. it aims to increase the limits imposed on member states and make all reduction commitments binding by 2025. we cannot accept this text which considerably strengthens the regulatory power of the commission, as well as the prerogatives of the european union over the member states in the elaboration and implementation of national emission reduction programmes.
in writing. ‒ in december 2013, the european commission adopted a set of proposals to improve air quality in europe, called the 'air quality package'. the proposal before us revises this directive to introduce controls on the various types of air pollution in each member state. the aim is to halve the number of premature deaths - estimated at 400 000 per year in the eu - caused by air pollution by 2030. however, during the negotiations with the council, key elements of the proposal were deleted. thus, methane and mercury are no longer covered by emission limits. member states will be allowed to average their emissions over three years in the event of a dry summer or a cold winter. finally, the binding interim (2015) targets proposed by parliament were removed. in short, the proposal is devoid of substance. good job on the lobbyists! you deserve your pay. i am voting against this text which ignores the public health objectives.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to bring it into line with the european union's international commitments (gothenburg protocol, 1999). the aim of this revision is to set targets for 2020 and 2030 for the reduction of emissions of the main polluting gases: sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds and ammonia. this report is not, in my view, satisfactory because it considerably strengthens the regulatory power of the commission and the prerogatives of the european union over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. furthermore, we cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, as such inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint on the agricultural sector. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report consists of a series of amendments by the envi committee concerning the reduction of national emissions within the meaning of directive 2001/81/ec setting national ceilings for certain air pollutants. the aim of this revision is to set targets for 2020 and 2030 for the reduction of emissions of the main polluting gases. we are not satisfied with this report in many respects. it significantly strengthens the commission's regulatory power and reinforces the eu's prerogatives over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. the text also abolishes certain facilities previously granted to states. in particular, we cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, because such inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint for the agricultural sector. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this text significantly strengthens the commission's regulatory power and reinforces the eu's prerogatives over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. the text also abolishes certain facilities previously granted to states. thus, the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive cannot be supported, as such inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint on the agricultural sector. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere. the agreement was a first-reading agreement to revise the directive setting national emission ceilings for five pollutants. the question that will arise is that of the transposition of this text because france has unfortunately specialized in the 'overtransposition' of european texts, which is a penalty for our farmers and for all producers.
in writing. this directive aims to introduce new measures and regulations to limit air pollution in europe, which is responsible for nearly 40 000 deaths each year. i voted against this text because of the lack of clear and coherent provisions such as ceilings for methane and mercury emissions, the absence of binding interim targets for 2025 or commitments to reduce premature mortality from air pollution by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this trialogue agreement which sets national ceilings for five pollutants which cause serious diseases, respiratory disorders and cancers. air pollution is the number one environmental health risk in europe. air pollution continues to cause more than 430 000 premature deaths in europe each year, including more than 50 000 deaths in france. so we had to respond urgently to the health risks and environmental effects of air pollution. with this directive, we are responding fully!
in writing. ‒ i am not satisfied with this report in many respects. it significantly strengthens the commission's regulatory power and the european union's prerogatives over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. the text also abolishes certain facilities previously granted to states. the inclusion of methane in the framework of the directive is likely to cause serious problems for the already very fragile agricultural sector. in these circumstances, i shall vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ every year in europe, 400 000 premature deaths are linked to air pollution. action is urgently needed to significantly improve air quality by drastically limiting emissions of certain air pollutants that come directly from industrial activities, transport or the heating systems we use. i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the limitation of emissions of nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, ammonia, fine particulate matter and non-methane volatile organic compounds by 2030 through the establishment of national programmes. however, it was important for the protection of our farmers, and in particular of our livestock farmers, to exclude methane from the scope of this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which sets new national ceilings for certain pollutants and will allow ambitious control of the level of air pollution in the european union. we must find solutions to the serious problem of air pollution, which causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, including more than 48 000 in france! by voting for this report, we are pursuing the objective of improving air quality, and the european union is fully committed to protecting european citizens from air pollution. the text sets realistic national emission ceilings for five pollutants and calls in particular for the exclusion of methane from the scope of the directive. europe is setting itself the ambitious target of reducing the health impact of air pollution by almost 50% by 2030, while not creating additional complications for farmers.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is the number one environmental health risk in europe. it shortens life expectancy and is the cause of serious illnesses such as heart disease, respiratory problems and cancer. according to the latest report by the european environment agency (eea) published in 2015, air pollution continues to cause over 430 000 premature deaths in europe every year. the european commission presented an 'air quality' legislative package in december 2013 which revised the nec/pen directive, in line with the commitments made at international level following the revision of the gothenburg protocol in 2012. at the first reading in the european parliament in october 2015, my colleague éric andrieu suggested excluding enteric methane from the limitation of methane emissions. unfortunately, following the trilogue discussions, the council asked for the exclusion of methane emissions from the directive, to meet the expectations of the european agricultural sector. however, i welcome the adoption of this report, which sets national emission ceilings for five polluting gases, including fine particulate matter, which are responsible for thousands of deaths a year.
in writing. ‒ i am not satisfied with this report in many respects: - it considerably strengthens the commission's regulatory power and strengthens the prerogatives of the european union over the member states in the development and implementation of national emission reduction programmes. in addition, the text removes certain facilities which have hitherto been granted to the states; we cannot support the inclusion of methane in the scope of the directive, as such inclusion would constitute an unacceptable constraint for the agricultural sector. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced report. it is essential that banks are an effective part of our economy and not a risk element. banks need to be well capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repeat of the huge bailouts seen during the crisis. the ongoing work of the basel committee should promote a global level playing field by mitigating - rather than exacerbating - differences between jurisdictions and banking models and by not unduly penalising the eu banking model.
in writing. ‒ the preservation of european banks should be given priority in a context where prudential requirements will affect their us competitors less. the sovereignty of our economy is at stake. the report goes in that direction, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution could increase the competitiveness of european banks by limiting their constraints. at a time when the rest of the world, and in particular the united states with the announced intentions of the new trump administration, is giving its banks more room to manoeuvre, we cannot afford to be left behind when some european banks, and in particular french ones, have already had to cede part of their activities, especially in asia, because of the basel requirements. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the finalisation of the basel iii agreement deserves support because i believe that the preservation of european banks must now be given priority in a context where prudential requirements will affect their us competitors less. it is about the sovereignty of the financing of our economy. since 2008, the trend has been towards tighter requirements, which has forced banks to increase their capital or reduce their liabilities (lending less, more expensive, or to less risky projects or businesses). there is a lot of complex work to fine-tune the calculation formula to better contain the risks. we therefore support this option which favours the competitiveness of european banks over their competitors, particularly those in the united states. it therefore takes a negative view of the introduction of the new requirements. the election of donald trump, who has announced that he wants to ease the constraints on us banks (amending the dodd-frank act), reinforces the relevance of the threat. in fact, some european banks, particularly french ones, have already had to divest part of their activities, particularly in asia, as a result of the basel requirements.
in writing. ‒ the basel committee develops prudential rules in the form of recommendations which can be transposed into national and european law by the competent authorities. since the 2008 financial crisis, these rules have been aimed at forcing banks to increase their own funds in order to improve their solvency, with the aim of making them more resilient to financial instability scenarios. the report considers that the new regulations, which are aimed at increasing the solvency ratios of european banks, must not undermine the competitiveness of our banking sector. in conjunction with the capital markets union, the application of basel iv could increase the competitive disadvantage of our banks. i voted in favour of this text which warns european and national authorities against the consequences of overly restrictive regulation.
in writing. ‒ this resolution relates to the finalisation of the basel agreement, the purpose of which is to establish global financial recommendations, which are not binding. in this context, basel iii aims to increase the capital requirements of banks, thereby establishing additional rules (prudential rules). considering that these agreements strengthen the regulation of the international financial system and its harmonisation, i supported this resolution.
in writing. the basel committee on banking supervision (bcbs) has played a key role in reforming the global banking system by establishing minimum regulatory standards. however, i consider that as it stands, the committee's latest proposals do not take account of the specificities of the european banking sector and are on the whole more favourable to us banks. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the finalisation of basel iii, so that the representatives of the european institutions in the cbcb act to amend the next reform package of this committee and keep european legislators informed of the progress of these discussions.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the basel committee agreements concern the solvency of banking institutions and lay down the relevant prudential rules. the current work, known as basel iv or iii 1⁄2, is concerned with the introduction of a new risk in the denominator of the solvency ratio, interest rate risk (in addition to market, credit and operational risk). the prudential rules are indeed binding on european banking institutions, in competition with foreign institutions subject to more flexible rules. nevertheless, the front national has a strong focus on protecting depositors from systemic risks. we have therefore no reason to oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr roberto gualtieri, on the finalisation of the basel iii agreement. basel iii is a reform of the basel accords of 1988 and aims to oblige banks to improve their internal risk management. thus, after basel ii, the objective is to strengthen the capacity of banking institutions to adapt to the economic situation and thus not to succumb in the event of a financial crisis. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to take account of several principles when translating the basel iii proposals into european law. first, the specificities of european banking models and markets, but also the preservation of the diversity of the banking sector and respect for the principle of proportionality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the finalisation of the basel iii agreement. the basel committee is an international body that develops prudential rules for banking institutions to improve their solvency. these are recommendations which must then be transposed by the competent institutions. the trend since the 2008 crisis has been one of tightening requirements, which has forced banks to increase their capital or reduce their liabilities (lending less, more expensive, or to less risky projects or businesses). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services to consumers. in conjunction with the capital markets union (favouring market financing, where us institutions are stronger than conventional credit), the application of basel iv could accentuate the competitive disadvantage of european institutions. too much regulation would also end up affecting credit and the economy.
in writing. ‒ this resolution could increase the competitiveness of european banks by limiting their constraints. at a time when the rest of the world, and in particular the united states with the announced intentions of the new trump administration, is giving its banks more room to manoeuvre, we cannot afford to be left behind when some european banks, and in particular french ones, have already had to cede part of their activities, especially in asia, because of the basel requirements. so i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the basel iii agreement consists of prudential rules applicable to banking institutions in order to improve their solvency and to contain risks. basel iv (also known as basel iii 1⁄2) aims to introduce a new risk in the denominator of several ratios (solvency, interest rate risk, etc.) and follows the trend since 2008: a tightening of requirements. in this case, the proposal put to the vote aims to reduce these requirements and thus allow european banks to be more competitive with their competitors, which we support. indeed, some french banks have already had to divest part of their business because of these requirements. the sovereignty of the financing of our economy is at stake.
in writing. this resolution endorses the state of play of the discussions on the new global banking standards known as basel iii. they were set out in 2010 and were supposed to respond to the 2008 crisis, but have not yet entered into force because of a lack of agreement on how to implement them. the basel committee is an oligarchic institution composed only of the central bankers of the countries with the largest banks. the ecb is represented, but the national regulators of the majority of eu countries are not! the resolution does not say a word about the questionable legitimacy of such an institution. she's also clueless about the diagnosis of the financial system. it says nothing about speculation and makes only marginal reference to the dangers of securitisation. it gives priority to the assessment and compensation of financial risks but not at all to their prevention. the resolution also says nothing about the misappropriation of central bank liquidity without the real economy ever seeing the colour. on the contrary, it grants a credit to the ecb. i am voting against this resolution which makes no useful proposal in the face of the increased dangers of financial capitalism.
in writing. ‒ the basel iii agreement has been transcribed into european regulations. the question is whether we should continue to regulate the exposure of banks to market risks and therefore go for a basel iii and iv agreement to limit the leverage even more. our position is to give priority to the competitiveness of european banks vis-à-vis their competitors, particularly those in the united states. we are therefore reluctant to introduce new requirements, which is the direction taken by the econ resolution. the election of donald trump, who has announced that he wants to ease the constraints on us banks (amending the dodd-frank act), reinforces the relevance of the threat. in fact, some european banks, particularly french ones, have already had to divest part of their activities, particularly in asia, as a result of the basel requirements. we have to face the paradox that our banks are increasingly subject to regulations (while many other countries are not) and that these do not protect us from the risks of crises. we therefore stand by our position that commercial and deposit banks should be separated. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report submitted essentially asks that the new basel committee standards do not result in an increase in the capital requirements of banks. the competitiveness of european banks vis-à-vis their competitors, particularly those in the united states, is threatened by the introduction of the new requirements. the election of donald trump, who has announced that he wants to ease the constraints on us banks (amending the dodd-frank act), reinforces the relevance of the threat. in conjunction with the capital markets union (which will favour market-based financing, where us institutions are stronger than traditional credit), the application of basel iii-iv could accentuate the competitive disadvantage of european institutions, especially as the rules of the crr and crd iv have not yet fully taken effect. too much regulation would also end up affecting credit, the economy. the vote was therefore in favour, while reiterating that efforts to force banks to cease their speculative activities or, failing that, to impose a real banking separation, the only way to protect depositors, should be supported.
in writing. ‒ the application of basel iv could accentuate the competitive disadvantage of european institutions, especially as the rules of the crr and crd iv have not yet fully taken effect. too much regulation would also end up affecting credit and thus the economy. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the draft law presented today makes it possible to defend european banks against their competitors, particularly those in the united states. i therefore support it and vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the finalisation of the basel iii agreement, the main objective of which is to increase the resilience of large international banks, i.e. their ability to adapt to economic conditions. in response to the financial crisis, it is essential to improve the robustness of banks while preserving their ability to finance the economy.
in writing. ‒ the basel committee is an international body that develops prudential rules for banking institutions to improve their solvency. these are recommendations which must then be transposed by the competent institutions. the trend since the 2008 crisis has been one of tightening requirements, which has forced banks to increase their capital or reduce their liabilities (lending less, more expensive, or to less risky projects or businesses). two views clash. the first favours the competitiveness of european banks vis-à-vis their competitors, particularly those in the united states. it therefore takes a negative view of the introduction of the new requirements. this is the position taken by the report. the election of donald trump, who has announced that he wants to ease the constraints on us banks, reinforces the relevance of the threat. the second approach is more in favour of the saver and systemic stability, considering that the banks' soundness needs to be further enhanced to protect depositors from the risks of resolution and to ensure the soundness of the system. according to this approach, banks only wait for a relaxation of regulation to resume their bad risk practices (securitisation, derivatives, etc.). the political position i take is to support the first option. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ banking risk models were a major cause of the financial crisis because they were regularly used to hide significant risks in banks' balance sheets. on this basis, the basel framework adopted in 2007 guarantees a minimum level of capital to ensure the financial soundness of banks. the european financial sector is highlighting the so-called negative impact on its ability to finance the real economy if they were to implement the new basel committee proposals strictly. it's all about the comments. but the majority of the political groups were mainly concerned about the competitiveness of european banks vis-à-vis their us counterparts, and most of all criticized the basel committee's efforts to increase transparency. at best, we can welcome the demand for a level playing field between small and large banks. this resolution is not going in the right direction. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i support a common security and defence policy and fully support the move towards a substantial autonomous eu defence capability to protect our citizens and promote our values and interests in full respect of the treaties, international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to ensure the eu's influence on the foreign and defence policies of the member states. it is based on the premise that the eu is threatened by both russian violent border changes and the destabilisation of middle eastern states. the report details the many concessions that are expected of the states if the cfsp is to become a reliable partner of nato. it also sets out how the commission is to enforce its rules in the field of defence procurement. i voted against this unacceptable report.
in writing. ‒ the security environment in europe has deteriorated significantly in recent months. this unpredictability and complexity require us to make more effective use of the existing instruments of the common security and defence policy. it needs to be extensively and profoundly revised to meet these new challenges. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is based on the assumption that the european union would be threatened both from the south and from the west. the report asks the member states for many concessions and details how the commission is to impose its rules on defence procurement, which undermine our sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy is actually intended to ensure the eu's influence on the foreign and defence policies of the member states. the report is based on the principle that the eu is threatened in the east and south by both the violent changes to borders by russia (point 7) and the destabilisation of the states of the middle east. it requires concessions from the states if the cfsp is to become a reliable partner of nato and defines its rules on defence procurement (paragraph 44). for these reasons, i naturally voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report uses the deteriorating political climate in europe, particularly with russia, and the islamist threat as pretexts to ensure the european union's grip on the foreign and defence policies of the member states. the common security and defence policy outlined in this report would be modelled on nato's action plans, with the consequence that our foreign policy would be subordinated to american interests. the many concessions expected from the member states are being supplemented by new rules on public procurement. i have of course opposed this report which locks our nations in an atlanticist trap when we want to maintain balanced relations with all the international powers with the aim of bringing about a multipolar world. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution follows up on the council's 2015 annual report on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), in particular the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). in a context where the european security environment is deteriorating considerably and where there is a risk of a us withdrawal from nato, i believe that the european union and its member states must take their full responsibility by continuing and strengthening the defence cooperation currently in progress. for these reasons i supported this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the implementation of the common security and defence policy which rightly underlines the importance of increased coordination between member states in defence matters at a time when the security climate is a continuing concern. the european union must be ambitious in defence, and this requires the development of our defence industry and adequate funding. when our security is at stake, europe cannot afford to be dependent on the technological know-how of third countries. the text also calls for the establishment of well-developed programmes for deradicalization and robust policies for the prevention of radicalisation in the face of the threats posed by terrorist organisations. these are two issues that i myself raised in my report to the european parliament on the prevention of radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report details the many concessions that are expected of states if the cfsp is to become a reliable partner of nato.
in writing. ‒ the european union's intention to take control of the member states' foreign and defence policies seems too tangible. i also do not want to support any increase in the commission's powers, for example in the area of defence procurement. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ioan mircea pascu on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the current situation calls for the union to play a greater role in crisis management and to assert its autonomy. this requires the establishment of a permanent european headquarters and the definition of a comprehensive strategy for the common foreign and security policy led by the high representative. the lack of coordination between eu member states is a threat to our common security. i am glad that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to revise the common security and defence policy so that the eu is able to intervene across the whole spectrum of crisis management, covering all stages of the conflict cycle, and so that we adapt to new security and defence challenges. this requires measures that are advocated in this report, such as, among others, a strong principle of collective defence, effective funding (2% of gdp), integration of cybersecurity into the csdp spectrum, etc. i am particularly pleased that the last paragraph of this report calls for reform of european law to enable european defence industries to benefit from the same state aid as american industries. that is an amendment i have tabled.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'implementation of the common security and defence policy'. in parallel with the paët report adopted yesterday, this is to ensure that the european union has a say in the foreign and defence policies of the member states. this report threatens the sovereignty of the member states by preventing them from using their military equipment and industries freely. defence must remain the prerogative of the states.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to ensure the eu's influence on the member states' foreign and defence policies. it is based on the assumption that the eu is threatened on its eastern flank by violent border changes by russia, and on its southern flank by the destabilisation of middle eastern states. it also details the many concessions the eu expects from states if the csdp is to become a reliable partner of nato. the report also sets out how the commission is to enforce its rules on defence procurement. in the face of so many threats to the sovereignty of states, and moreover in a royal area as important as security and defence, our group has shown firm opposition. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report on the implementation of the european security and defence policy is timely. the eu's foreign affairs chief is expected to announce in december her action plan for the creation of a european army. it is a way of putting a layer behind the report voted on the day before. it includes the need for military operations to complement nato, the creation of a defence budget, particularly research, specific to the eu and other dangerous escalations, disconnected from popular sovereignty. cynicism abounds: this so-called 'pooling' is demanded in the name of the 'budgetary constraints' they have set themselves. the neoliberal logic is therefore pervasive. worse, they are calling for a common defence market because 'protectionism and the closed nature of european defence markets are an obstacle'. and if a sovereign state opposes it, it is threatened with infringement proceedings with financial sanctions. dismantle the french defence under the auspices of the eurocrats. the shame. i vote against this infringement of the sovereign right to protect our geostrategic interests and our industry.
in writing. ‒ the report assumes that the eu is threatened by russian operations and the destabilisation of the middle east. the report details the many concessions that are expected of the states if the cfsp is to become a reliable partner of nato. it also sets out how the commission is to enforce its rules in the field of defence procurement. i objected to the report.
in writing. ‒ the report assumes that the eu is threatened in the east and south by both russia's violent border changes and the destabilisation of middle eastern states. the report details the many concessions which are expected of the states if the cfsp is to become a reliable partner of nato (paragraphs 15, 21, 23, 33 to 37, 40). it also sets out how the commission is to enforce its rules in the field of defence procurement. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ defence policy is a prerogative reserved to the states, and it is out of the question to accept that it should be ceded to an illegitimate supranational body.
in writing. this report seeks to define the future directions of the european union's military strategy. it promotes increased spending on defence, military research and security policy. this increase could, the report continues, be supported by a reorientation of development aid funds, a peaceful instrument for peace and stability. i have voted against this text in principle because a genuine european defence policy requires a great deal of debate in all the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report seriously undermines france's independence in defence policy, industrial policy and diplomacy, since it is all about submitting everything to european requirements which are in reality those of nato. i therefore naturally vote against.
in writing. ‒ following up on the report on the european defence union, which i supported, i voted in favour of this report proposing to revise and strengthen the common security and defence policy. this will allow the european union to intervene in the whole of crisis management, including prevention and resolution, giving priority to engagement in conflicts with direct consequences for eu security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp) and suggests ways to make it more effective. the csdp must be strengthened in order to assert the strategic autonomy of the european union and to strengthen its resilience. the resolution calls on the union to continue its csdp missions, such as eunavfor med, which effectively combat arms and human trafficking in the mediterranean off the coast of libya. the report also calls for the launch of csdp training operations in iraq to support member states involved in the coalition fighting daesh. in the field of defence, it is crucial that the european union does not implement actions that could duplicate those carried out by nato. as such, this resolution underlines the new measures adopted to strengthen eu-nato relations, in particular in the area of cooperation against cyber attacks. finally, i supported this text because it recalls the need for the union to react more quickly and more firmly to real threats and for the european armed forces to cooperate more closely.
in writing. ‒ it is about ensuring the eu's grip on the foreign and defence policies of the member states. the report assumes that the eu is threatened in the east and south by both the violent changes to borders by russia (point 7) and the destabilisation of the states of the middle east. the report details the many concessions which are expected of the states if the cfsp is to become a reliable partner of nato (paragraphs 15, 21, 23, 33 to 37, 40). it also sets out how the commission is to enforce its rules in the field of defence procurement (point 44). i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the establishment of a 'european defence white paper'. the union's military intervention capabilities outside parliamentary control should be increased and diversified. in addition, the desire to develop more independent operational capabilities of the member states is accompanied by an increasingly close relationship with nato. worse, it encourages massive subsidies to the arms industry by requiring member states to increase their defence efforts to at least 2% of gdp. such a policy can only be pursued at the expense of the union's other development policies. we, together with the gue/ngl, remain resolutely opposed to the militaristic bidding and in favour of a policy of disarmament. the eu would do better to devote its energy and finances to promoting peace, multilateralism and peaceful dialogue between peoples. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this report by the ep plenary is a real scandal and a provocation towards a partner as essential as russia (both politically and economically). indeed, by equating the propaganda of daesh on the internet with russian news sites such as rtnews or sputniknews, the european legislator is establishing itself as the supreme censor of the freedom to think differently from the "eurobes". russian news sites are openly eurosceptic, especially since the eu sanctions were imposed in connection with vladimir putin's positions on the syrian conflict. so, not tolerating the contradiction, what better way for the europhiles than to ban these websites? this censorship is in line with the french government's bill to penalize the so-called gender-based violence (gbv) disinformation sites. in the coming months, it will no longer be possible to offer online alternatives to abortion in france. from now on, sites that offer a different vision than the well-meaning people in brussels and the french "prolife" will simply be filtered by the servers. this method is already being applied in china for all non-governmental social networks.
in writing. ‒ propaganda targeting the eu and its citizens is a fact that requires a strong response from us. the fight against propaganda and radicalisation requires cooperation between the member states and the european institutions. i regret, however, that this text does not live up to the challenges. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to combat the so-called 'hybrid threats' that threaten the european union. these threats have two sources: russia and the islamic state. this report is a testimony to the drift of the european union, which, lacking any consistency, is trying to survive by manipulating fears and grossly amalgamating a sovereign state that respects the international treaties it has signed with a terrorist organisation. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the idea of producing a communication on behalf of the union on this subject. however, i have reservations about the leveling of the different threats. the war on europe's doorstep and the radicalisation methods used by isil/daesh are a threat today that is nothing compared to the current policy of a country like russia. for this reason, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this scandalous report plays on fears by putting on the same level, in a crude and absurd way, a sovereign state like russia and a terrorist organisation like the islamic state, both of which are allegedly the source of vague 'hybrid threats'. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ rarely has such a manichean text been proposed to our assembly. how can we even dare to mention daesh, a terrorist organisation, and the russian federation, a sovereign state governed by the rule of law, an obligatory and desirable partner of a europe fully aware of its identity and its raison d'être? it is a caricatured, russophobic report which shows a clear deterioration of democracy and press freedom in europe. despite the millions of euros injected into the communication - propaganda, we should say - of the european institutions, europeans refuse to submit to your dictates and are looking for alternative sources of information, especially in russia. why ban rt if you don't ban the bbc, the british state television, at the forefront of disinformation in syria or libya? why not ban the eight financial groups that share 100% of the tvs and 97% of the print media in france? this report is insulting to russia, but it also shows the soft dictatorship that the european institutions intend to set up in a europe where only the supporters of the system could speak out. you are bringing down a new iron curtain on europe, and we are no longer on the right side...
in writing. ‒ it is always ideology and not the general interest that prevails in this elite of the european parliament. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners. in other words, the money of european taxpayers will be used primarily to crush any criticism, dissent or dissenting voice within the union. i had already opposed the opinion of the committee on culture on this text by tabled amendments recalling in particular that pluralism and freedom of expression are enshrined in the european treaties. during that vote i also recalled that if the union is suffering from an unprecedented crisis of legitimacy, it will not be solved by marketing measures or even propaganda operations. one can wonder about the sincerity of the meps who criticise russia on the subject of human rights and freedom of expression but have no problem in pampering turkey which nevertheless multiplies the purges of elected officials, journalists and any dissenting voices. i voted against this report, which is another example of the endemic schizophrenia of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to counter the propaganda against the european union, which is mainly carried out by the islamic state and russia. propaganda by the islamic state to justify their terrorist acts which recently struck france and belgium; propaganda by russia to discredit and weaken the european union and its institutions. by associating a criminal and terrorist organisation with a major international power, the european union is helping to stoke tensions with russia. this report uses our fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press and political pluralism as pretexts to conduct an anti-russian information campaign and to marginalise russia in our trade and diplomatic relations. we believe, on the contrary, that we must pacify and intensify our relations with all the major international powers, particularly in order to bring about a multipolar world. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union is often the victim of very negative propaganda coming from certain third countries or groups. it is important to have a strategy in place to restore the truth about the european union. i voted against this report, however. i do not consider this text to be a good basis for developing this strategy. i do not think that the proposed approach is appropriate. furthermore, the report equates daesh with russia. we cannot treat russia and daesh in the same way. it's an insult to the russian people. russia is and must remain one of our strategic partners. daesh is an enemy of the european union. i would remind you that our fellow citizens have been the victims of many attacks perpetrated by this islamist group. for all these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report deals with the propaganda activities of third parties against the european union and its member states. the report assesses what strategy the european union can adopt to counter the communication, in particular from third states. while the islamic state is engaged in very aggressive propaganda to recruit young people, promote radical islam, harm european values and interests and incite hatred against them, it is mentioned only once in this report. on the other hand, russia is mentioned 25 times, and this difference in treatment between the propaganda of the islamic state, our enemy, on the one hand, and russia, which despite our fundamental disagreements remains an indispensable partner, is not free from ulterior motives and amalgamations. although i agree that such counter-propaganda work is necessary, i also believe that these ambiguities are detrimental to the objective of the report. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. the report on the eu's strategic communication to counter propaganda directed against it by third parties underlines that the european union is facing increasing pressure from propaganda and disinformation campaigns by both state and non-state actors. we must fight against all forms of propaganda, whether it comes from television channels, news agencies or the internet. i support several of the provisions in this text, including those encouraging better cooperation with social networks to combat hate speech, incitement to violence and discrimination online. however, the many mistakes and inconsistencies in this report justify my abstention on this text. in particular, i do not think it is appropriate to link the communication strategies of the terrorist organisation islamic state, which is corrupting our youth, with those of russia.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu's strategic communication to counter propaganda against it by third parties calls on the commission to promote better communication across the union. it is important to put in place a comprehensive strategy to combat all forms of disinformation and propaganda, of which europe is increasingly the victim. in the field of security, i think that measures must be put in place to enable member states to cooperate closely and easily. however, i abstained on this report because it is inconsistent with a number of inaccuracies and maladjustments. in particular, the comparison between the communication strategies of the islamic state and those of russia does not seem relevant to me.
in writing. ‒ in this report, i would like to stress the importance of combating propaganda on the internet, regardless of the source. i am concerned about the shift i see taking place in the definition of what is truly information. i am thinking of the us elections where the responsibility of social networks is evident in trump's victory. just like with brexit, they have been spreading massive amounts of false information that are giving rise to extreme positions. these platforms have become the media that people consult to form an opinion. however, it is not media in the traditional sense. working in a closed circuit, depending on the friends you follow, you don't have access to a contradictory point of view. the positions are moving, without perspective, without hierarchy. worse, some topics have become a battle of the sexes, with hate speech feeding into shocking videos whose source cannot be verified. it is a central issue for the future of our democracies to frame these practices and to put in place the necessary safeguards: the fight against the concentration of the media and their freedom everywhere, education too.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report deals with hybrid threats to the european union, allegedly emanating from the islamic state and russia. we cannot support a text which grossly amalgamates a sovereign state with a terrorist organisation.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report is a testimony both to the obscene drift of the european union, which lacks any consistency, tries to manifest its existence by manipulating fears, and to the savagery that the eu represents for international life, since it is beyond the limits of diplomacy to so grossly amalgamate a sovereign state and a terrorist organisation.
in writing. ‒ paragraph 1 of the report says, in general, that 'propaganda hostile to the european union' aims 'to distort the truth, to instill doubt, to divide the member states [...], to paralyse the decision-making process, to discredit the institutions of the union and the transatlantic partnerships', by inciting fear and uncertainty. the targeted propagandists are russia and daesh, in a mind-boggling amalgam of bad faith. no mercy for russia and its supporters, a search for excuses for those who are radicalized by daesh. it seems to me that the european union and the technocrats who run it with the complicity of european governments are doing a very good job of provoking rejection of what they are: by the policies they are pursuing or imposing, by the lack of transparency, by the contempt they have for the opinion of the people, by their social and immigration choices... they themselves constantly practise disinformation, massive and biased propaganda, pro-ttip, hostile to russia or eurosceptics, promoting the european union as the only legitimate form of european cooperation. you would like to introduce information control for your own benefit and that of your dogmas. i refuse this censorship.
in writing. disinformation and all forms of propaganda are dangerous, especially on the internet. we must fight them wherever they come from. however, this report is poorly designed. it lacks the rigor required for high-quality information in amalgamation. that is why i abstained, not so much on the substance as on the method.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to counter the hybrid threats, apparently directed against the european union and led by russia and the islamic state group. this is the emanation of a desire for existence which, failing to be a reality verified within the community's borders, is manifested in the confusion and manipulation of minds, so that the amalgamation between a large and sovereign state and a terrorist organization appears as a crude provocation. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague, anna fotyga, on the eu communication to counter propaganda against the eu by third parties. committed to promoting the external action of the european union in its fight against terrorism and foreign propaganda, i could not, however, support this report which tends to put russia and the islamic state group on the same level. although russia can carry out propaganda operations within the european union, it seemed to me inappropriate to compare this situation to the terrorist propaganda of the islamic state group, which has already caused too many victims on our territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not think that putting the group 'islamic state' and russia on the same level serves european interests. the propaganda of russia is nothing compared to the deadly propaganda of the islamic state group.
in writing. ‒ the european union is often the target of propaganda campaigns by state and non-state actors, which threaten the union itself and the member states. this is particularly true of the group 'islamic state', whose propaganda aims to recruit young people, promote radical islamism, harm european values and interests or incite hatred against our peoples. our commitment must be total to this scourge. some of the actions taken by russia are also ambiguous. however, contrary to what the report proposes, i believe that it is desirable to maintain diplomatic and political relations with that country. for this reason, i preferred to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the central theme here is the fight against hybrid threats potentially directed against the european union. the two identified sources of these threats are russia and the group "islamic state". the eu's obsessive drift is evident here, which, in the absence of any defence and security policy, is trying to demonstrate its existence by manipulating fears and distorting reality to make a conflation between russia - a sovereign state - and the islamic state group - a terrorist organisation. i can only oppose a shamefully distorted and disturbing vision, and have voted against this fabric of dishonesty.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the union's strategic communication to counter propaganda directed against it by third parties. the report makes a number of proposals to combat effectively the dissemination of disinformation hostile to the eu. beyond the lack of substance on how to implement these proposals, the text focuses on two threats: one from russia, the other from the islamic state group. these two entities are treated in the same way when it is a state on the one hand and a terrorist organisation on the other. despite the usefulness of trying to combat anti-eu propaganda, the too many inaccuracies and confusions in this text make me refrain.
in writing. - the acute paranoia of this parliament is boundless. convinced of a forthcoming russian attack on the eu, he used the vocabulary of the cold war and became the main actor in the escalation of tensions with russia. this report on counter-propaganda begins by comparing a member state of the un security council to a terrorist organization. for the rest, you can look up the measures against the group "islamic state". the aim is to denounce a 'propaganda war' orchestrated by moscow against the european union. those who oppose a 'positive narrative' about the eu are painted as 'extremists and populists' who would dare to break the cohesion of the 'west'. the report calls for the promotion of 'independent' media in the eu and russia... by funding them with eu money. funny way to look at independence. there is a need to critically assess how to deal with media sources that are proven to have been repeatedly involved in a strategy of deliberate deception and disinformationand to track down those officials who would venture to meet their russian counterparts. i vote against this dangerous block-against-block logic !
in writing. ‒ it is about countering the so-called 'hybrid' threats directed against the european union itself by russia and the 'islamic state' group. this report shows the drift of the union, in that, on the one hand, it manipulates fears to assert a certain legitimacy and, on the other hand, because it is an amalgam between a sovereign state and a terrorist organisation. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to combat the so-called 'hybrid threats' which are allegedly threats against the european union. the identified threats have two sources: russia and the group 'islamic state', which are equally placed. this report is a testament to the drift of the european union, which is trying to prove its existence by manipulating fears. it is also clearly beyond the bounds of diplomacy to blend in such a crude way a sovereign state and a terrorist organization. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report attempts to amalgamate a sovereign state (russia) and the threat posed by the group islamic state. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which directly accuses russia of making propaganda, of using its networks in europe to harm our union and of conducting mass disinformation campaigns. such a text, in addition to being totally defamatory of russia, also shows the anti-russian paranoia which unfortunately prevails inside the european parliament and which has as its only consequence a sterile escalation of sanctions which harm our economies, our producers and our farmers.
in writing. - this report is a stunning object, as fortunately few see. he equates russia with the terrorist organization islamic state, which is as scandalous as it is absurd. it is therefore an ideological blindness far removed from any intelligent diplomacy. the most effective propaganda against the european union is the policy pursued by the union and its disastrous results for the people who suffer from it. the citizens themselves have analysed the europeanist catastrophe, they did not need a third country to tell them what to think. i shall of course vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights new measures to counter russia's disinformation campaigns against the european union and its member states, as well as the propaganda of the terrorist groups 'islamic state', 'al-qaeda' and other violent jihadist terrorist groups. i decided to abstain from voting on this report, which puts propaganda actions coming from russia on the same scale as propaganda produced by dangerous organisations such as the islamic state group or al-qaeda. this makes no sense because our real enemies remain the islamic state group and all the other organizations that threaten our security and that we must fight relentlessly.
in writing. ‒ it is a matter of combating the so-called 'hybrid threats' which are allegedly threats to the european union. these threats have two sources: russia and the group islamic state. this report is a testimony to the european union's obsessive drift, which, lacking any consistency, tries to manifest its existence by manipulating fears. this report also bears witness to the danger which the eu now represents for international life, since it is beyond the bounds of diplomacy to blend in such a crude way a sovereign state and a terrorist organisation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this resolution builds on the june 2015 eu action plan on strategic communication to respond to external disinformation activities. this resolution proposes to strengthen the union's information capabilities in the fight against terrorism, but it draws a parallel, at least surprising and even questionable, between the propaganda of russia and that of daesh. there is no other country that would dare to be associated with a terrorist organisation. this anti-russian obsession is contributing to the exacerbation of political tensions and can only aggravate them. it would be good to at least ask what the term propaganda means, which seems to me to be used without taking the care to define it, when it deserves a minimum of contextualisation and some comparisons. this text, far from strengthening the union's defence policy, contributes to fuelling a logic of blocs as in the 'good old days' of the cold war. i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the european union has nearly one million deaf people who use sign language. in the 21st century, it is essential that citizens who are deaf, deafblind or hard of hearing have access to the same information and means of communication as their fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is quite consensual, since it is part of a desire for greater accessibility and integration for disabled people, without ever indicating a desire to interfere in the policy of the member states. despite a few missing paragraphs, it is an overall consensus resolution in favour of accessibility for people with disabilities. i am in favour of the proposed measures, since the competence of the member states is not called into question, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to have qualified and professional sign language interpreters. it is clear that deaf citizens must have access to the same information and communications as their fellow citizens through sign language interpretation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, although it can be improved, it clearly represents an opportunity for improving the integration of deaf and hard of hearing people.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters. this is based in particular on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has been ratified by france and, in turn, by the european union. the text does not interfere with the right of disabled people to live independently of the law, and recalls that disabled people should be able to enjoy the same rights as all citizens, in particular through measures of accessibility and reasonable accommodation. it is a fight that is dear to me, which is why i often table amendments in the committee on culture, on texts relating to sport or education, to promote greater social inclusion of disabled people. i am also in favour of official recognition of sign language interpreters, including the granting of a similar status within the european institutions to that of spoken language interpreters.
in writing. ‒ this consensual motion for a resolution aims to improve accessibility and integration of people with disabilities, building on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, ratified in 2016 by france and the european union. among the recommendations we would like to mention the desire to make all public services accessible to disabled people and to officially recognise national sign languages. i voted in favour of this text, of course. we consider it essential in our societies to protect and promote the integration of the most vulnerable.
in writing. by adopting this resolution, parliament is making its recommendations for the better integration of deaf and hard of hearing european citizens. i supported this text, which places particular emphasis on the training and status of professional sign language interpreters. in the light of equal treatment, it is essential to give sign language interpreters the same status as interpreters of spoken languages. the european institutions will have to set an example by officially granting these statuses to sign language interpreters.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the resolution is based on the un convention and aims to promote the integration of people with disabilities, but without encouraging interference in the policies of the member states. so there is no reason to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ overall, the motion for a resolution is rather consensual, once is not customary, because it does not attack the policy of the member states and is limited to recommendations on accessibility and integration. i also support the proposed measures in general and welcome the respect for the sovereignty and competences of states. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague adam kosa on sign language and professional interpreters. the report calls for the recognition of a status for qualified sign language professionals. a status modelled on that of spoken language interpreters to put an end to the breakdown of equality between interpreting professionals. it is also about developing standards on sign language while recognising the regional and national specificities present in the eu. the report highlights issues that affect millions of europeans today (one million are deaf, 51 million are hard of hearing) and that the european institutions must address. i am glad that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which mainly highlights the need for qualified sign language interpreters. more generally, it recalls the obvious equality to which deaf or hard of hearing people are entitled, in particular in access to information and communication, a fortiori on public service and in particular for political programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, although it can be improved, it clearly represents an opportunity for improving the integration of deaf and hard of hearing people.
in writing. ‒ member states are facing a shortage of qualified and professional sign language interpreters. to remedy this, the resolution calls for 'the official recognition of national and regional sign languages in the member states and in the institutions of the union', the establishment of official training (university or equivalent, i.e. three years of full-time study, corresponding to the training required for spoken language interpreters) and official recognition of the profession. this is all going in the right direction. i simply regret that the joint resolution does not take account of the proposals drawn up by my group, the gue/ngl. it called for the introduction of a code of conduct for interpreters and for the establishment of emergency services capable of communicating with deaf people. i shall vote for this text, however.
in writing. ‒ despite some problematic paragraphs on multilingualism in the eu or on freedom of movement, it is overall a consensual resolution in favour of accessibility for people with disabilities, without calling into question the competence of the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is quite consensual, since it is part of a desire for greater accessibility and integration for disabled people, without ever indicating a desire to interfere in the policy of the member states. it is based in particular on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was ratified in 2016 by france and the european union. despite a few missing paragraphs, it is therefore a consensus resolution in favour of accessibility for people with disabilities. we are also rather in favour of the proposed measures.
in writing. ‒ despite some missing paragraphs, this resolution in favour of accessibility for people with disabilities is a step in the right direction. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on sign language and professional sign language interpreters. it called on the european union to ensure that sign language interpreters and spoken language interpreters are treated equally, both in terms of their remuneration and their access to preparatory documents for preparing parliament's sittings. deaf people must not be excluded from european construction and action because of their disability.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is quite consensual, since it is part of a desire for greater accessibility and integration for disabled people, without ever indicating a desire to interfere in the policy of the member states. it is based in particular on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was ratified in 2016 by france and the european union. in these circumstances, and in the interest of improving the lives of disabled people, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to vote in favour of this resolution which aims to improve the autonomy of people with disabilities, people with hearing impairments, deaf people and people who are blind. it is our duty to ensure that these people have the same rights as other citizens by encouraging the development, training and recognition of the skills and status of sign language interpreters.
in writing. ‒ the european union has almost one million deaf people using sign language and 51 million citizens with hearing impairments, many of whom also use it. i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need for qualified and professional sign language interpreters. it is important to support the recognition and training of sign language interpreters. persons with disabilities must be able to enjoy the same rights as any other citizen and must not be penalised in the exercise of their rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ despite a few missing paragraphs, it is an overall consensus resolution in favour of accessibility for people with disabilities. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection. the commission should take into account all the data necessary to confirm the safety of a given substance before granting authorisations. the period of approval shall be proportionate to the risks, if any, inherent in the use of these substances. the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle of the authorisation process for all plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ this text is an objection by the envi committee to the renewal of the active substance bentazone. bentazone is a commonly used pesticide, particularly for peas, beans and potatoes. doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several encouraging studies. in particular, bentazone may infiltrate surface and groundwater. in addition, there are still doubts about the danger of bentazone to human health, although according to the conclusions of several scientific studies, including those of the world health organisation, this is dependent on the absorption of very high doses of bentazone. in view of the importance of this information, the 'confirmatory information' procedure is contrary to the precautionary principle and cannot be used as a basis for granting an authorisation for a period of 15 years (the maximum period). for all these reasons, the enf group supports the objection calling on the commission to carry out the additional assessments necessary for the renewal of bentazone before renewing it. i therefore voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection not to renew the authorisation to import and place on the market the active substance bentazone. its use could have adverse effects on users and consumers.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is a pesticide whose harmfulness to humans and the environment is still being debated. the uk environment agency has found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of ground and surface water, as pesticides tend to seep into soils. this objection to the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone rightly highlights that the tests and studies are far from unanimous on the absence of hazards and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this objection from the envi committee of the parliament concerning the renewal of the authorisation of bentazone. i consider that the lack of reliable data on the potential hazards that this substance may pose to human health does not allow for an immediate renewal. this is all the more so after the publication of the uk environment agency study, which found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of groundwater and even surface water. i am aware of the conclusions of the who in several of its reports, which state that the risks are associated with a high abstinence from bentazone. however, prevention is better than cure and this is why many evaluations of the effects of this pesticide need to be carried out.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is a pesticide commonly used in the cultivation of peas, beans and potatoes. it turns out that many doubts remain about the harmfulness of this substance to humans and the environment because of the many cases of contamination of groundwater with bentazone. it is against this background that this report raises an objection to the renewal of this active substance. the objection stresses that further evaluations and analyses remain essential before authorising its renewal. we support this objection because of the precautionary principle which we must apply in the interests of our fellow citizens and the environment. we therefore call on the commission to undertake the additional assessments necessary for the renewal of its authorisation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution seeks to give a negative opinion on the renewal of the authorisation of bentazone, an active substance used in the manufacture of pesticides used in agriculture. under the mandate given by the european parliament and the council, the commission proposed renewal until 2032, the standard legal term. in the light of current scientific and technical knowledge, i support the proposal for renewal, but i call for the continuation of the toxicological tests. i regret that the rapporteur has not taken into account the epp group's proposals to provide more guarantees on the use of bentazone products. we had proposed to reduce the period of re-authorisation, to restrict the use of the products to professionals and to ban their use in sensitive areas such as public parks and gardens. considering, on the one hand, that the commission has respected its mandate by following the positive scientific opinion of the european food safety authority and, on the other hand, that this proposal does not take into account the positions defended in the epp, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ some meps objected to the renewal of the authorisation of bentazone, an active substance in a plant protection product with herbicidal effect. this substance, which is already used in some member states such as france, is essential for the control of toxic plants. the industry does not yet know of any alternative solutions to this substance, which makes bentazone indispensable. the ppe group has proposed several amendments in order to find a balanced position on this issue. we have proposed, in particular, that the framework for its use be strengthened for professionals and that it be prohibited for non-professionals. scientific studies show that bentazone is safe when used appropriately. we also proposed banning the substance in areas used by the general public and supporting research and innovation to find alternative solutions. finally, we wanted a renewal not for 15 years as proposed by the commission but only for 7 and a half years. however, these solutions were not accepted and we were unable to reach an acceptable compromise on the renewal of this substance, which i regret, so i voted against this objection.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in this report, the commissioners requested that the commission carry out the necessary further analyses before the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone. the commission intended to use the confirmatory data procedure, which is contrary to the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the objection rightly points out that many assessments are still needed for the authorisation: these include assessments of the risk to the consumer and the possibility of infiltration of ground and surface water. in view of the importance of this information, the 'confirmatory information' procedure is contrary to the precautionary principle and cannot be used as a basis for granting an authorisation for a period of 15 years (the maximum period).
in writing. ‒ given the potentially dangerous nature of bentazone, i support the objection to carry out the additional studies needed for the renewal of the authorisation of this product. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection on the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone. the european food safety authority concluded that bentazone is safe when used appropriately. the sector faces a complex situation in the absence of an alternative. i supported the compromises that stressed the importance of research and innovation to find alternative solutions and limit its use in public spaces (playgrounds, public gardens, parks) in the name of the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection which was aimed at preventing the renewal of the herbicide bentazone. this substance is used in france on three vegetables for industrial use (canned peas, bean pods and flageolet). it's essential to fight against toxic plants. in addition, both the national agency responsible and the european agency responsible for these dossiers (the european food safety authority - efsa) have concluded that bentazone is safe when used appropriately. there is therefore no reason to prevent its renewal. the epp also tabled amendments to regulate its use and limit the renewal of its authorisation.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is a pesticide whose harmfulness to humans and the environment is still being debated. the uk environment agency has found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of ground and surface water, as pesticides tend to seep into soils. this objection to the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone rightly highlights that the tests and studies are far from unanimous on the absence of hazards and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the active substance bentazone is a selective post-harvest herbicide against broadleaf weeds. it is marketed by the basf toxic group and is commonly used in agriculture. it is therefore frequently found in groundwater or surface water, leading to contamination of drinking water supplies. the report before us is opposed to the renewal of the authorization of this product proposed by the european commission. it appears that the commission was considering renewing the substance without having first collected data confirming its safety. in view of its irresponsibility in this matter, i am opposed to any future decision by the commission on plant protection products. i vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - bentazone is a pesticide commonly used in agriculture. doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several reassuring studies. this contamination by water infiltration depends in part on the type of soil and its porosity and is hampered by the rapid photodegradation of this substance. however, the uk environment agency has found frequent cases of bentazone contamination of groundwater and even surface water. in addition, there are doubts about the danger of bentazone to human health, although according to the conclusions of several scientific studies, including those of the world health organisation, this is dependent on the absorption of very high doses. the objection stresses that many assessments remain necessary for the granting of the authorisation, including those on the risk to the consumer and the possibility of groundwater (and surface water) infiltration. in view of the importance of that information, the 'confirmatory information' procedure is contrary to the precautionary principle and cannot be the basis for the granting of an authorisation for a period of 15 years. i therefore support the objection calling on the commission to request evaluations.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is a pesticide commonly used, particularly for peas, beans and potatoes. doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several encouraging studies. the objection rightly points out that many assessments remain necessary for the grant of authorisation: these include assessments of the risk to the consumer and the possibility of infiltration of groundwater and surface water. in view of the importance of this information, the 'confirmatory information' procedure is contrary to the precautionary principle and cannot be used as a basis for granting an authorisation for a period of 15 years (the maximum period). for all these reasons, the enf group supports the objection calling on the commission to carry out the additional assessments necessary for the renewal of bentazone before renewing it.
in writing. ‒ this objection calling on the commission to undertake the additional assessments necessary for the renewal of the authorisation of bentazone, before proceeding with the renewal, seems to me to be well founded. i vote for it.
in writing. - i voted against this bentazone objection. this substance, which is one of the only effective ones, is used on certain vegetables to control toxic plants such as date palms, blackberries and redwoods. it has also been approved as safe by the european food safety authority. the political groups which have tabled this objection are more in favour of their dogmatic positions than the interests of farmers and, more broadly, of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which recommends not to renew the authorisation of the herbicide bentazone. bentazone can easily reach groundwater and could be toxic to human reproduction. the european commission must take into account all the necessary data confirming the safety of a given substance before issuing authorisations, especially since the european food safety authority (efsa) collegial review has proposed that the active substance bentazone be classified as toxic for reproduction category 2.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is a pesticide commonly used, particularly for peas, beans and potatoes. doubts remain about its harmfulness to humans and the environment, despite several encouraging studies. the objection rightly points out that many assessments remain necessary for the grant of authorisation: these include assessments of the risk to the consumer and the possibility of infiltration of groundwater and surface water. in view of the importance of this information, the 'confirmatory information' procedure is contrary to the precautionary principle and cannot be used as a basis for granting an authorisation for a period of 15 years (the maximum period). for all these reasons, i support the objection calling on the commission to undertake the additional assessments necessary for the renewal of bentazone before renewing it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the renewal of the authorisation of the active substance bentazone. i understand the concern about the possible harmful effects of this herbicide on humans or the environment. however, i rely on the opinions of the european agencies which have concluded that bentazone is safe when used appropriately. i do not want farmers who are already burdened by many restrictive standards to find it even more difficult to grow their vegetables. it is therefore our duty to ensure that this substance is used properly without harming farmers.
in writing. ‒ bentazone is a pesticide commonly used, particularly for peas, beans and potatoes. there are concerns about its harmfulness to humans and the environment:- bentazone can infiltrate surface and groundwater. this contamination depends in part on the type of soil and its porosity and is hampered by the rapid photodegradation of this substance. - there are also doubts about the danger of bentazone to human health, although according to the conclusions of several scientific studies, including those of the who, this is dependent on the absorption of very high doses of bentazone. the objection rightly points out that many assessments remain necessary for the grant of authorisation: these include assessments of the risk to the consumer and the possibility of infiltration of groundwater and surface water. in view of the importance of this information, the 'confirmatory information' procedure is contrary to the precautionary principle and cannot be used as a basis for granting an authorisation for a period of 15 years (the maximum period). i therefore voted in favour of this objection.
author. madam president, violence against women and girls is a terrible scourge of the present day, affecting all of europe and the world. such violence is a reflection of the inequalities and discrimination suffered by women in comparison with men. moreover, women in europe are not protected in the same way against violence depending on the country in which they live. the fight against violence against women is a daily struggle, which requires a profound change in attitudes, fuelled by prejudices and gender stereotypes. this is not a problem that affects only women. it involves all our societies and requires a strong political response. the european union's accession to the istanbul convention will provide a first step towards a better fight against violence against women in europe and provide legal tools to protect them. we are asking the commission and the council, through our oral questions, for precise answers on the state of play of the negotiations. we therefore urge the 14 eu member states which have not yet done so to ratify the istanbul convention. the socialist and democratic group also advocates the adoption of a directive on combating violence against women. i am also convinced that the rule of law mechanism will help to strengthen the implementation of the istanbul convention in the member states. i welcome the fact that we are proposing a joint resolution tomorrow to make our voice heard in this fight and to say no to violence against all women and girls. i am deeply sorry that this text does not mention the denial of access to safe and legal abortion and the resulting forced pregnancies. but we are talking about a form of violence against women. the istanbul convention ignores the right to abortion, but the united nations recognizes it as a human right. i will continue to be committed to the recognition and protection of abortion as a fundamental right within the european union. inaction and indifference are not options when it comes to defending women's rights. as martin luther king said, our lives begin to end the day we become silent about the things that matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, violence against women is, unfortunately, (the president interrupts the speaker for a problem of interpretation) a scourge that does not spare any of our european countries i say no and it is a shame. this is an absolute disgrace. we are two days away from 25 november, the international day for the elimination of violence against women, and we are here again, in this house in strasbourg, as we are every year, at about the same time and in almost the same type of configuration, both of us, both of us, to deplore this state of affairs and call for action. that's enough of that. how many more years are we going to have to lament the worsening situation of women? this year, of course, we have a new prospect, namely the accession of the european union to the so-called istanbul convention on preventing and combating all forms of violence against women. it is a major act, a very significant step forward which would be taken in order to mobilize, to strengthen the concrete commitment of the european union and its institutions to the elimination of violence against women. it would also put additional pressure on the member states which, although they have signed the famous convention, have not yet ratified it or have not yet implemented it in practice in their countries. i therefore urge the european commission to do everything possible to keep up the pressure - if i may say so - on the member states to face up to their responsibilities and to mobilize so that together we can really implement real, concrete plans to combat and eliminate all violence against women.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, your lyrical outbursts in favour of the european union's accession to the istanbul convention do not in any way absolve you of your responsibility in the current regression of women's rights, because you have allowed islamic fundamentalism to flourish in europe, that deadly ideology which advocates the application of the sharia, including polygamy and forced marriage. you have organized the subversion of the european union's migration through the relocation plan for migrants, with the consequent explosion of sexual assaults, as in cologne last year. finally, you support turkey's membership of the european union. i would simply remind you that the turkish government was considering just a few days ago to overturn the conviction of a rapist who agrees to marry his victim. so before ratifying yet another convention, start by ensuring women's first right, namely the right to security. in conclusion, i would like to point out that this accession seriously undermines the sovereignty of the member states and that the european union has no legitimacy to impose this convention on them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the istanbul convention on violence against women. let me first of all point out the incredible irony of this convention, which bears the name of the turkish capital. just a few days ago, the government of that country wanted to pass a law that would have reversed convictions for sexual assault of a minor if the perpetrator would have agreed to marry his victim. these attacks on women's dignity are revolting. the deterioration of the status of women in our various countries is unbearable, because women's rights are declining. islamist fundamentalism is taking root, attacking women head-on and trying to lock them in cages of fabric. the level of physical harm remains at a dramatically high level. in france alone, a woman is raped every 40 minutes. the free trade agreements negotiated by the european commission or the laws it imposes on the member states, such as the el khomri law in france, make workers more vulnerable and women their first victims. you all signed up to these social regression bills. the national front, france's leading feminist party, rejects these monstrous violations of women's rights, and we will fight alongside marine le pen throughout this term and the coming presidential campaign to finally improve the situation of women. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". your question is completely meaningless, dear lady. marine le pen is going to run a very dynamic campaign, and you will see that a large and growing number of women will vote and support marine le pen, who is the only candidate who stands up for women in this presidential election in france. (reply of corazza bildt: 'well, that proves that this is an election campaign!')
madam president, criminalizing physical, sexual and psychological violence, providing safe havens for women victims of violence, educating on gender equality, informing professionals working with victims and providing the necessary financial resources are some of the measures proposed by the istanbul convention, the first legally binding international instrument to combat violence against women. we are told that this will not happen, but it is particularly strange to hear istanbul mentioned when one thinks of the plans to degrade the rights of young girls that this abject proposal of the turkish authorities envisaged to allow rapists to make amends for their crimes by marrying their victims. when it comes to violence against women, the primary culprits are individuals. but in eradicating these unspeakable acts, governments and the european union also have their share of responsibility. that is why our legislation must be in line with the istanbul convention. the situation of women facing violence will not change with the snap of a finger or a pen, but it is our responsibility to legislate to change the law and mindsets profoundly. that is the meaning of the istanbul convention. of the 28 member states that signed it, only half have ratified it. we must stop being duplicitous and start acting. the european commission proposed the union's accession to this convention last march and i welcome this. it must accelerate the pace - you have made proposals to us - because a common approach is essential to protect women in the same way, regardless of where they live in the union.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, as you all know, jordan is one of the first collateral victims of the syrian chaos and as such faces considerable challenges which, if not overcome, would create an even greater instability. i will not go into what is happening in jordan, but the economic and social consequences of what is happening around that country are obviously considerable. tourism has plummeted, exports have slowed because jordan's natural trade outlets, syria and iraq, are totally devastated, growth is stalling, unemployment has skyrocketed. so we have a country that is both politically stable but in great difficulty economically and socially. in spite of this, jordan faces another challenge, a colossal and considerable one, that of welcoming hundreds of thousands of refugees from these warring countries, who are fleeing persecution and poverty. i would remind you that in jordan, the refugees are less in camps than in cities, where the jordanian authorities are trying to integrate them, to allow them to work, and all this with great dignity. this should be a challenge to those of us who know a little about the situation in this country, as europeans also faced with this refugee crisis, but with responses that sometimes take a long time to come and in any case a generosity that we do not really show. so, faced with this exceptional situation, the european institutions have obviously decided to provide aid, relief to jordan through what is called 'macro-financial assistance' (mfa). of course, there are other ways to help this country, this is not the only one. the commission is also working to make the rules of origin for jordanian products more flexible and there is talk of negotiating a trade agreement which is both asymmetrical and progressive. but in any case, we discussed this macrofinancial assistance in the inta committee and reached an initial agreement. there were technical elements, since we had to accept the amendments introduced by the council to the commission's text. this did not take us long, but of course we mainly discussed the amount. there was unanimity in the inta committee, both right and left, to try to propose a much higher amount than the one suggested by the commission, which was only 200 million euros. there was an interesting debate. we felt that the jordanians' financing needs were great and that europe had ample means to help them. there was a debate, a discussion. i would also like to thank bernd lange, chairman of the inta committee, who has worked hard to find a compromise. we have finally reached a compromise which i think is acceptable, since there would be a first tranche of 200 million euros which would be disbursed immediately but with the promise, or at least the commitment of the commission, to do the same in the following year. that is what this report proposes. i would like to reiterate two requests which i made in the explanatory statement. firstly, i think that the commission must be smart and flexible in the terms of the so-called 'agreement protocol', that is to say, it must negotiate with the jordanian authorities and not be obsessed with structural reforms which are too fast-paced. but it must not be forgotten that the amf is only a loan; they're not gifts. at some point, as we did when we had the debate on tunisia with mrs de sarnez as rapporteur, we will of course have to ask ourselves about the renegotiation of the jordanian debt, which is likely to be very important in the future. i would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs who have been very active and determined to ensure that the european parliament speaks with one voice on an important subject, since it is the future of the countries in our immediate neighbourhood.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mr emmanuel maurel, and the committee on international trade (inta) for their valuable work on this report. i also thank the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and the committee on budgets (budg) for their support. as you know, jordan is among those partner countries facing enormous political and economic challenges due to the regional conflict and the influx of more than one million syrian refugees. the intensification of the conflicts in syria and iraq led to a deterioration of the macroeconomic situation in jordan in 2015, with trade, the tourism sector and the gas supply being particularly affected. it is in this broader context of regional conflict and with every intention of supporting jordan and its people during this difficult time that the commission submitted its proposal for the macro—financial assistance operation. the international community has continued to fully support jordan in this difficult situation and pledged about eur 10 billion at the so-called london conference in february 2016 for countries most affected by the syrian refugee crisis. at this conference the eu pledged eur 2.4 billion including a eur 200 million macro—financial assistance loan. the eu—jordan partnership priorities approved recently by the council also include the prospect of this macro-financial assistance. in view of these international commitments, it is crucial that parliament and the council agree on the proposed macro—financial assistance of eur 200 million to jordan so that this support can be effectively and swiftly delivered. the new macro—financial assistance operation will of course be subject to the fulfilment of a number of economic reforms. jordan must satisfactorily implement the programme of the international monetary fund as well as the policy measures to be agreed between the eu and jordan in a memorandum of understanding. once agreement on the proposed loan is reached, we will work to agree quickly the policy measures with our jordanian partners. it is likely that these would cover measures in the areas of public finance management, fiscal reform, the societal safety net and access for syrian refugees to the labour market, measures that would help jordan withstand the economic pressure it is currently facing while securing a stable future for its people. i am pleased that parliament and the council were able to agree on the final text in trilogue on 27 october 2016, with two amendments that the commission can support. in accordance with the joint statement agreed by the three institutions the commission will, in 2017, if appropriate, submit a new proposal for macro-financial assistance, provided that the usual preconditions for this type of assistance are fulfilled and on the basis of an updated assessment by the commission of jordan’s external financing needs. i am pleased to underline that two weeks ago the council confirmed already its approval of the commission proposal subject to the approval of this parliament. i hope, therefore, that you will choose to vote positively on the proposal and the accompanying compromise. we need to move ahead quickly to achieve a positive impact in support of jordan and the jordanian people. i hope we will have your full support going forward.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, emmanuel maurel, for the very good work he has done and for the investment he has made. we must of course help jordan, which is in a critical situation. it is at war on its borders, particularly with syria and iraq, countries which are completely destabilized. it hosts about because we don't know exactly one million syrian refugees and a few tens of thousands of iraqi refugees. it should be remembered that these people are joined by more than two million palestinian refugees who have been in jordan for decades. so the situation is very difficult and the economy is very unstable. tourism is obviously declining, debt is rising and the country is facing difficulties in infrastructure and funding for the reception of refugees. so obviously we have to help jordan - that goes without saying - but it's even better if we can be at that meeting. we therefore all support the idea of macrofinancial assistance to jordan. we all said we wished it was more important than it is. it should be remembered that jordan is a stable country in a totally unstable environment. that's why it's important to be at this meeting. 200 million is fine, but it would have been better to go further. we take into account the commission's commitment to do more next year and we in parliament will be extremely vigilant to ensure that this appointment is maintained and that this commitment is honoured. and then, finally, it is not money that is given, but money that is lent. it must be clear, and i think the european union would be inspired to think about a conversion of debts into extremely specific projects, as france and germany have done for tunisia, for example. i urge the commission to work on this and to look into the question of debt conversion on projects in the field which we can then clearly finance and evaluate. perhaps that is what we should do for jordan.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i also believe that it is essential to show our solidarity with jordan, which has been suffering the backlash of movements in the world for the past 70 years. the failure to resolve the question of a palestinian state, the consequences of the wars in iraq, the civil war in syria and the islamic state's grip on the region have only increased the number of refugees in jordan. i therefore support emmanuel maurel's proposal to increase the macrofinancial assistance beyond the 200 million euro that is provided for. this aid must be unconditional and must be provided through other means than conditional loans from the international monetary fund. on the other hand, jordan's economic autonomy must be taken into account, especially since the arrival of syrian refugees adds significantly to the financial needs for public services, water supply, education and energy. it is better to use the financing provided under the neighbourhood policy, accompanied by the renegotiation of debts and a trade partnership to help the jordanian economy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, it is clear that in a turbulent middle east we are in favour of supporting a state which has a certain degree of stability. however, i still distrust human rights policy because human rights is not a policy. first of all, we must give political support to the actors in the region and ensure that we can rebuild a real realpolitik where the western empires have destabilised the middle east. i think that in this foreign policy of the european union, we should look at the issues at stake, namely the support for all the forces that resist and fight against the islamic state. we believe that the first to benefit from this aid are, of course, the christians, who were the first to be destabilized by the policy of radical islamism. i am thinking in particular of lebanon, which has just had a new president. lebanon has not been helped as a number of other countries have been, and i think that we should do the same for lebanon, as we have done for jordan, which has shown that it can indeed have a policy of stability even stronger than that of jordan. lebanon has just gotten a president. lebanon, in my opinion, hosts many more refugees than jordan, and no one is talking about lebanon today. i believe that we french people, especially here in the european parliament in strasbourg, should be more attentive to the need to develop a homogeneous policy and not to favour a unilateral policy in favour of a certain number of refugees. i believe that we must review our entire foreign policy and, if the un refugee agency has unfortunately suspended all aid to lebanon, we must renew our political will to ensure that all options are put in place in jordan, lebanon and the middle east for a genuine return to stability.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am pleased to note that almost all the members who have spoken are well aware of the urgency of the situation in jordan and the need to provide substantial financial assistance to it, with a few exceptions, as we saw in the debate. i would like to reassure some colleagues, both mr le hyaric and mrs gabriel, that macrofinancial assistance is just one tool among many. there is of course also: 1) what mrs de sarnez was raising, that is to say the idea of work on debt restructuring, which seems to me totally important and urgent, 2) the investment projects to which mrs gabriel was referring, 3) the outline of a reflection on a trade partnership which could be fruitful between the european union and jordan - i have said it, but perhaps not clearly enough - and 4) the sum of 200 million - i repeat - this time and a commitment by the commission for the same amount, or even more, next year. president lange has rightly pointed out that what has been difficult in our negotiations is obviously the relatively inflexible position of the council, even though we are also making more and more statements to assess the seriousness of the refugee crisis and to seek solutions to it. finally, in reply to the representative of the national front - he is not here, he has left the chamber - who has embarked on a long discourse on the union's foreign policy, i should like to say first of all that no one here is unaware of the plight of eastern christians in this parliament, but no one is unaware of the plight of the lebanese either. it may also be recalled that, in the context of the neighbourhood policy, the european union has helped lebanon on many occasions: there is an association agreement, financial technical assistance and more than 700 million euros exceptionally allocated in the context of the syrian crisis. what i mean by that is that, of course, europe is fully aware of the situation in these countries and is doing its best to help resolve this crisis, which is indeed a very important crisis. i thank you for this debate and i hope that the vote tomorrow will be by the largest possible majority and i think that is what the jordanians also expect from us.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur. i believe that in the overall strategy which is being put in place in terms of taxation, this action plan of the european commission to combat vat fraud is a welcome element. when you look at the figures for this fraud, you can see that something is wrong. this is obviously a matter of direct concern to the european union, since we are dealing with a tax which is also one of the few own resources in its budget. but of the 1 000 billion, the 170 billion in fraud per year, 50 billion of which is in crossborder transactions, is not acceptable to our citizens or our states, nor to the european union. i think that the commission's proposals are in the right direction as regards the supply of goods between member states which would become taxable in the receiving state or the possibility for the purchaser to finalise his vat with the introduction of mini-counters which i think will help to improve the system. a debate is under way on the advantage granted to the czech republic in testing the self-regulation mechanism in a pilot project. let's be honest, we don't believe in it, we don't think it's going to reduce fraud. we do not think this is the right way forward because vat is a useful tax, an efficient tax, and we simply need to correct the things that do not allow us to collect this tax under the right conditions. but to introduce self-regulation is to abandon the vat mechanism. we therefore prefer proposals which go in the direction of strengthening the action proposed by the european commission.
mr president, this is a particularly important report which the commission should take seriously on one of the essential tax resources of the states. i would like to make two comments. the first concerns public services, which should benefit from the reduced rate of vat when they deal with social, health, environmental, nutritional and cultural aspects in order to preserve the essential values of the union. social services of general interest, for example, should be exempted. the second topic concerns the territories, and in particular the isolated rural territories where certain economic activities play an important social role. this is the case, for example, in the equine sector, which is characterised by a multi-purpose establishment encompassing sport, nature and equestrianism, as well as tourism, horse therapy, etc. farms are generally quite fragile and their economic equilibrium is probably dependent on vat rates. that is why excessive vat would jeopardise these farms and create a shadow economy which would be the very opposite of fair and transparent taxation.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, it must be acknowledged that this text has the merit of putting an end to the trade in ivory and rhino horn in europe. it also rightly calls for better adaptation of fishing gear to avoid bycatch of endangered marine species. it is good that it also exposes corruption and the major role of the online pet trade. however, rather than creating a special european office, we would have preferred international coordination on trafficking. our amendments also proposed strengthening interpol, and unfortunately the european police office (europol) was preferred. the european union's accession to the cites convention on endangered species is also presented as a step forward. we can see where the union is going. it is simply a matter of gradually replacing the states in international decisions on these matters. unfortunately, the bearder report calls for the union to monitor the member states, and even to impose on them an increase in budgets in this area. what is worse, the recommendations on criminal law clearly threaten our sovereignty. this is regrettable for a text which had nevertheless incorporated our proposals on the particularly lucrative nature of this trade or on the need for an approach involving the countries concerned.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs bearder, for her report. as has been said, wildlife trafficking is the fourth most lucrative illegal activity after drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking. the profits made each year are estimated at between $8 billion and $20 billion, but the real cost is priceless. that is why i support the commission and encourage the member states to take a serious look at this crime against biodiversity. european countries that do not criminalize this traffic become privileged entry points, but also important hubs of this international trade. it is worth noting that the main sources of income for these traffickers are poverty, crime, and armed conflict. in some parts of the world, conservationists are also in mortal danger. but let us not forget that man does not need a gun to be the most dangerous of all predators. let us question our lifestyles, let us fight against the extinction of plant and animal species, let us protect ecosystems, let us stop concrete and deforestation as land grabbing. a recent report by the wwf showed that the pressure of human activities has caused the extinction of half of all vertebrates in just 40 years, and climate change is likely to further exacerbate this pressure. europe must be at the forefront and preserve our climate, or we will all be responsible for the sixth extinction of species.
mr president, as the co-author of a recent motion for a resolution on combating the trafficking of ivory through trophy hunting, this is of course a matter of particular concern to me. while i agree with many of the findings of this report, i would like to make some essential points. first, stop lumping wildlife trafficking into the same bag as drugs or, worse, human trafficking. since aristotle, the scale of beings has been a founding principle of natural philosophy. it is perhaps time to recall that, philosophically, man is superior to the animal as the animal is to the vegetable and the vegetable to the mineral. it seems to me therefore irresponsible and scandalous to compare wildlife trafficking with human trafficking, otherwise known as slavery - an analogy which is also expressed in this report in black and white. another topic that is also biased is trophy hunting. it is respectful of biodiversity and well managed, but it is necessary. it allows for co-financing of wildlife conservation plans and provides tracking and traceability to work in symbiosis with sovereign states. these states, you must respect them! respect namibia, which has also enshrined in its sovereign constitution the positive role of hunting in respecting biodiversity. talk to the states, yes, but let them decide their criminal policy on this matter after exporting ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteurs for the quality of their contribution, the warmth of our reports and the ability to reach a very broad consensus. it should be recalled that transport, which is essential for the movement of people and goods, is a fundamental element of the internal market. in addition to the often troubled public transport, smes in the transport sector - or should i say 'mobility' - represent a key and often the main activity of the sector, a key element of mobility, especially in urban centres, and a dynamic source of growth and therefore of job creation to meet the ever-increasing demand for mobility. the challenges facing european transport smes as a whole are of different kinds. they face a regulatory challenge firstly due to the complexity, inherent costs and wide disparity of access rules to regulated professions; secondly, an economic challenge linked to the high costs and the perennial problem of financing with difficult access to credit for limited investment capacity; thirdly, an environmental challenge resulting from congestion, emissions and dependence on fossil fuels; fourth, to a technological challenge with the emergence of the new economy, intermediation platforms, empowerment, automation and vehicle connectivity. the last point leads me to emphasize the emergence of a new phenomenon in this context. it was in the transport sector that the collaborative economy first made its most spectacular breakthrough. the term "uberization" is a testament to this. this new economy brings positive technological and commercial breakthroughs, but also poses some problems for traditional players and regulators. the advances brought about by the collaborative economy are numerous: improvement of the quality and fluidity of existing services; security of the actors for the benefit of the consumer; i am talking about the gains in trust generated by the identification and mutual notification of the consumer and the service provider; enhancing the security of transactions; the creation of a new type of selfemployed, often low-income, who contribute both to growth and to the reduction of unemployment. however, we should not forget the challenges posed by this platform economy, starting with the definition and management of the relationship between these platforms and service providers, both for taxation and social protection or the security of legal stability. secondly, should the nature of the service offered by the provider to the private individual be described as 'commercial' or 'cost-sharing' in the context of co-consumption? in addition, and as a consequence of the above, the question arises of the tax and social status of the actors in the collaborative economy and the differentiation between the sharing economy for non-profit providers and the for-profit platform economy. data protection is obviously an important subject, not to mention relations with the so-called "classic" transport economy and corporations. access to regulated professions is often complex, restricted and varies across member states. the answer to all these problems implies, on the one hand, improving the environment for smes in the sector by reducing their administrative burden, by simplifying their access to credit, and even to research, by modernising the status of the professions and by facilitating access to new technologies for traditional players. this response also implies the convergence between the classical economy and the new collaborative economy at european level by the harmonisation of the statutes and rules of access to the professions, by the determination of what is a matter of sharing and what is a matter of profit in a commercial activity, by the harmonisation of tax and social regimes in order to ensure identical rules between the classical economy and the new economy and by the progress towards european frameworks that define the status of the professions and their economic framework. my dear colleagues, these are the challenges ahead. i am glad that this report has received very broad support from my colleagues in the committee on transport. i hope it will be useful in moving towards greater efficiency, growth, employment and sustainability in the service of citizens and i look forward to listening to your speeches with great interest.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, every day european citizens ask themselves about their transport, about their daily life. they live, as we do, with this digital wave which is a positive evolution and which brings the multiplication of platforms that heat our existing models. among these platforms, we find new ethical business models that pursue values of sharing, climate protection and social connection. this is a little bit of what the collaborative economy should be based on and, from this, we should think that a collaborative economy can benefit everyone, whether it is the manufacturer, the driver, the passengers or the environment. our role as legislators is to anticipate technological change without inhibiting innovation. that is why i want to say that there is an urgent need for a strict regulatory framework and i am making this appeal to the european commission because there are still too many legal uncertainties which are hindrances to the development of the collaborative economy. in this regulatory framework, we must, on the one hand, define what a platform for the collaborative economy is based on cost sharing as opposed to platforms that provide professional services and, on the other hand, harmonise the rules at european level. there are two other reasons why the sharing economy needs to be regulated. firstly, to protect it from itself, because it is a sector which is still immature and which has a tendency to monopolize. secondly, rules should be established to ensure that competition is not unfair and does not encourage fiscal or social dumping. this risk of dumping exists. it's when a small category of people use collaborative platforms to make a business out of it. it is therefore on this condition that the collaborative economy can flourish within a regulatory framework... (the president withdrew the floor)
member of the commission. – mr president, this was a really good and constructive discussion and i thank the honourable members for all their contributions and comments and for the debate. it shows me that parliament is taking a position in many respects very similar to that of the commission, especially when it comes to modernisation of the regulatory frameworks. among other things, emerging business models may indeed raise problems of legal uncertainty with regard to the application of the existing legal framework. we also agree that we need to distinguish between profit-making and cost-sharing activities. this is, again, in line with the commission’s communication on the collaborative economy. in that communication, besides a clear definition of terms, the commission also made very clear that operators in the collaborative economy should comply with rules that are well designed to ensure consumer protection, safety and security, adequate working conditions and training and fiscal compliance. with this report, parliament calls on the commission and member states to combat anti-competitive practices. the reaction of member states to the emergence of new players has indeed been diverse and the commission is following the developments. whether or not the commission needs to intervene will depend on case-by-case assessment. when appropriate, the commission may use its competition-policy tools to guarantee the proper functioning of the market with access for smes. we take note of parliament’s call on the commission to continue monitoring the developments and impact of the collaborative economy and the digital agenda. monitoring exchanges of best practices and enforcement are among the key actions that the commission intends to pursue, as explained in the communication of 2 june 2016. here, i can also assure you, once again, that we keep smes constantly in mind. not long ago, i was one of them. therefore we will be paying special attention to ensure open systems and access to customers, especially in the digital age, while at the same time ensuring that safety is not compromised.
the rapporteur. mr president, dear commissioner, dear violeta, dear colleagues, first of all i would like to thank you for your contribution to the clarity and quality of the contributions that have been made, and for the excellent spirit that has guided the preparation of this report. beyond the large public transport companies, the majority of transport in europe is therefore provided by these millions of craftsmen, self-employed people and smes who have to face environmental challenges and technological advances that upset their working and living conditions. europe should support their adaptation to these rapid changes by improving their environment and by focusing its action on the following priorities: more effective, simpler and cheaper regulation; more legible, stable and attractive taxation; access to credit that needs to be simplified, accelerated and more effective; and social protection and tax equality. the explosive development in transport of these new technologies of the platform economy also requires a rapid and powerful effort on our part, namely a harmonisation of the regulations of access and exercise which are sometimes corporatist and differ greatly from one territory to another, as well as an effort of convergence towards a european definition and regulation of the activities of digital platforms in transport. a word on amendment no 37, which has been mentioned several times. it is not a question of regulating, much less over-regulating, but of asking the commission to look into a new problem, that of light commercial vehicles in international transport. this totally unforeseeable but new phenomenon has caused enough concern in a number of member states for nine of them to address the commission with a letter co-signed by nine ministers. i think it is not a question of regulating, but of seeing clearly and, if new elements are introduced, of thinking about them together. finally, this own-initiative report - this modest report, madam commissioner - is intended to encourage the european commission to propose as quickly and effectively as possible the necessary measures to support the harmonization and convergence of all types of undertakings in the field of transport.
in writing. the impact of the digital economy and the rapid development of platforms in transport is a reality that the european legislator can no longer ignore. the issues are many, from the protection of workers' rights to access to the profession of driver to the legal responsibility of platforms. the report before us contains positive elements in the fight against social dumping, the training of drivers and the fight against monopolies. i also welcome the distinction between platforms that generate real benefits and the collaborative economy, which is fundamentally based on cost sharing. however, i regret that this report does not take into account the risks of driver insecurity using platforms such as uber. i also disagree with the paragraphs that seek to limit the ability of states to regulate these platforms; this is contrary to the message sent in favour of a modernised regulatory framework. finally, i believe that carriers using these platforms should be regulated as 'transport companies'. the digital medium is only a tool for the service provider who offers a well-defined service: passenger transport!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security based on federalism is putting our peoples in an energy insecure situation. you are denying the states the fundamental freedom to contract, to ensure their own energy security in full sovereignty, which is contrary to subsidiarity, but above all to efficiency. only long-term contracts with the state, by virtue of the economic visibility they give, allow for long-term investment in private or state capacity. the liberalization of energy leads us into the short-term cheap-sell mentality and thereby undermines long-term security and profitability. by subjecting the energy diplomacy of the states to the good will of brussels through short-term thinking, the liberalization of a natural monopoly and your political diplomacy, you are committing to total energy insecurity.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the ombudsman on her work. i wanted to ask you about two things: access to documents and the problem of the links of interest between the commission's experts, particularly the euratom treaty. as regards access to documents, you know that the commission refused to give the documents, either to greenpeace or to pan europe, concerning glyphosate, the active substance in roundup. the court, and in particular the court of justice of the european union, had said that access to these documents should normally be granted. the commission had appealed. yesterday, and for that reason this report is timely, the court of justice of the european union gave the associations a victory. this shows that when you are caught, you are given even more power to access the documents of the commission, but also of agencies such as efsa. the second point concerns the links of interest between the experts. madam ombudsman, i called you to ask for the names of the experts and the interests of the euratom treaty experts who had been the origin of the maximum permissible limits in the event of a nuclear accident. i got the names, but not the connections of interest, and you told me that it's up to the panel to decide whether to communicate, yes or no, those connections. so i really ask you, and the commission and the states, to make sure that you have more power to ensure that we have access to this information.
mr president, madam ombudsman, i am going to go off the beaten track. i want to raise awareness of a subject that has never been discussed and yet there is much to be said and done. i am talking about the european parliament. hundreds of parliamentary clerks work in this institution, and the precariousness of their employment contracts means that they have little interest in complaining. they can be thanked simply by a declaration of no confidence, and this is at the discretion of the member. it's cool! yet sexual harassment is a reality, and there is no listening, counselling or alerting structure here. it's a lack, it's a pain! sexual harassment has no color, it has no smell and it has no political color. it is therefore urgent to put in place monitoring tools to help victims so that the omerta is no longer a problem here. we need a real status for parliamentary staff so that they can better defend their rights. we cannot be the world's disciplinarians here without putting our own house in order. the victims are therefore counting on you, madam ombudsman, and i hope that you will take a strong initiative.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the guarani-kaiowá people are one of the symbols of the struggle of indigenous peoples. for decades they have fought against the plundering of their ancestral lands and paid a heavy price for it. the demarcation of their territory, which was recognized in 1988, is still not a reality. the amazon lands are very appealing. deforestation, land grabbing for food, energy, forestry, and mining industries, intensive livestock farming, and huge dams have destroyed a third of the amazon rain forest. while they are a bulwark against climate change, they are the first victims of it via the agrofuel frenzy. the european union is an important trade partner of brazil its first partner and therefore has responsibilities. it cannot turn a blind eye to the human and environmental costs of the policies it promotes and the products it imports, nor can it escape the responsibility of european multinationals. it's time to act.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ildar dadin has been convicted for the first time for an illegal demonstration in situations which were not really respectable. the russian police are condemned by the russian authorities. he's gonna do it again and go to jail. on 2 november 2016, he was examined by a medical committee at the segueja district hospital, who found that there had been no abuse. on 12 november 2016, the bbc russian service reported on the examination of mr dadin by dr vasily generalov, at the request of human rights organisations. again, we find that he has no abuse. i would like to remind you of what happened in my own country. for organizing a legal protest against gay marriage, for wearing the t-shirt, some ended up in prison. for demonstrating for a month, some also ended up in prison. this is the case with nicolas buss. i hope that my country will be condemned in this case too!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text and i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr emmanuel maurel, on the quality of this report. we must provide the most effective assistance to jordan, and we must do so as soon as possible, recognising its role in the refugee crisis and as a longstanding and reliable partner of the european union.
in writing. ‒ jordan and its economy are affected by the war in syria: decreased tourism, foreign investment, blocked trade routes, problems importing gas from egypt, have slowed growth and weighed on the budget. jordan has experienced an influx of 1.3 million syrian refugees. the cost would be $6.6 billion since 2011. despite the implementation of an adjustment programme with the imf and a loan of usd 2 billion, the problems persist. the commission is proposing to the european parliament a medium-term loan of €200 million. these loans will help jordan to take care of syrian refugees, which is legitimate for a country that is taking a large share of the burden in the migration crisis. however, the imf and the eu are calling for structural adjustments. the jordanian economy is in serious financial difficulty and yet needs this help. these loans are conditional on the implementation of externally imposed rules that contradict the current state of jordanian society. if these rules are applied too rigidly and without measure, this is potentially dangerous for the stability of this country. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this macro-financial assistance because jordan is one of the countries hardest hit by the crisis. its economy has been severely impacted by regional tensions. nevertheless, jordan is distinguished by its reception of a very large number of displaced people. the european union must show its support for the state in response to its reception policy.
in writing. ‒ i am not opposed to providing macro-financial assistance to jordan, but the assumptions and conditions are not the right ones.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on the vote in favour of granting macro-financial assistance to jordan, which has been and remains heavily affected by the war in syria. jordan has already taken in more than 1.3 million syrian refugees, which would represent a financial burden of $6.6 billion since 2011. with unemployment at 14.6%, a budget deficit of 3.5% and a current account deficit of 11.7% of gdp, jordan is also suffering from a decline in tourism, foreign investment and problems with gas imports from egypt. the €200 million loan proposed by the european commission seems to me, in these circumstances, legitimate, especially since jordan is taking more than its share in the management of syrian refugees. i am concerned, however, about the conditions imposed by the imf and the european union on jordan to receive financial assistance. once again, the race is on to blackmail structural reforms, as if the european union could not accept that there could still be other models of political and economic organisation.
in writing. ‒ this codecision report follows the european commission's proposal to make available to jordan macro-financial assistance of up to a maximum global amount of eur 200 million to support the national economy in the context of military conflicts in syria and iraq. considering that the european union is suffering, through the flows of refugees, the disastrous consequences of the syrian and iraqi conflicts, as is jordan, and that the european union must support its partners in a logic of co-development, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision granting new macrofinancial assistance to jordan. the instability in the near and middle east has weighed heavily on the economy of jordan, a key ally in the fight against daesh and a key partner in hosting refugees fleeing the region's conflicts. this is why i am in favour of increasing the maximum amount of macro-financial assistance to eur 200 million. in order to ensure the optimal use of these funds, it is important that the commission agree with the jordanian authorities on the conditions to which the union's macro-financial assistance is to be subject.
in writing. - i abstained on that report. jordan and its economy are affected by the war in syria: decreased tourism, foreign investment, blocked trade routes, problems importing gas from egypt, have slowed growth and weighed on the budget. a financing agreement is being concluded with the european union and the imf. we welcome this aid to a highly destabilised state, subject to the structural reforms demanded of jordan by the two institutions mentioned above.
in writing. ‒ events in the middle east have led to an influx of over 1 million syrian refugees into jordan, resulting in a multi-billion dollar burden. it is natural that we should help this country in the midst of the migratory turmoil, although i do not agree with the imf and eu's demands for structural adjustment. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr emmanuel maurel, on financial support for jordan. largely supported by parliamentarians, this assistance will take the form of a €200 million loan on behalf of the eu. as a partner of the union in the fight against terrorism in the middle east, jordan's economy has been severely impacted by the conflict in syria: a decline in tourism and a massive influx of refugees into its territory. this aid will enable the hashemite kingdom to implement the structural reforms needed to revive its economy. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to allocate macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million to jordan, a country that has been severely affected by the conflicts in syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it certainly has the merit of helping jordan, a brave country fighting against daesh. but it makes its financial aid conditional on respect for parliamentary pluralism, without questioning the legitimacy of 'imposing democracy on the west'.
in writing. ‒ it is normal to help jordan, which is taking a large share of the burden of syrian migrants. the eu loan of €200 million is legitimate. however, these loans are conditional on the implementation of externally imposed rules that are in contradiction with the current state of jordanian society, with objectives that could undermine the stability of jordanian society. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. ‒ jordan is facing several crises: economically - due to the blocking of its traditional trade routes; financially - with a bloody budget; and socially - its unemployment rate is at historic highs. and yet the jordanian authorities and people are humanely facing the challenges they face, such as the one of welcoming in the best possible way the one million refugees displaced to jordan by the deadly conflicts in the iraqi-syrian area. the european union has already taken several measures to support jordan in this difficult period: it has provided various technical, financial and humanitarian aid; it has made the rules of origin applicable to jordanian exported products more flexible; and will potentially start negotiations for an asymmetric trade partnership soon. however, my report focused on the proposed new macro-financial assistance: i am pleased that the european parliament has responded to the urgency by following my suggestion to approve, in addition to the eur 200 million planned for this year, the principle of a new operation for jordan, with at least an additional eur 200 million in 2017.
in writing. ‒ the union proposes to grant jordan macro-financial assistance of up to eur 200 million in the form of a loan. under the guise of 'assistance', this is in fact to subject the country to the requirements of the imf, coupled with a 'memorandum' with the eu. everything is very clear on this. the financial assistance is intended only to support the implementation of an action programme with strong adjustment and structural reform measures in a budgetary consolidation objective. already with the eu-jordan euro-mediterranean free trade agreement in 1997, the eu had no qualms about congratulating king hussein on his reforms, without in any way calling into question the autocratic and regressive character of the jordanian regime. with his son, the arab spring was quickly forgotten. i vote against this unjust agreement. this is all the more so when other types of aid and dialogue could and should have been favoured.
‒ jordan and its economy are affected by the war in syria. there has been an influx of 1.3 million syrian refugees. the cost would be $6.6 billion since 2011. it is right to help jordan which is taking a large share of the burden of syrian migrants. the eu loan of €200 million therefore seems to us to be legitimate. the only difficulty for us is that the imf and the eu are asking for structural adjustments. these loans are then subject to the implementation of several measures potentially dangerous for the country's balance. this aid must not be conditional on eu wishes. i voted in favour of the text as a whole.
in writing. ‒ jordan has faced an influx of 1.3 million syrian refugees. the cost would be $6.6 billion since 2011. so it is not absurd to help jordan which is taking a large share of the burden with regard to syrian migrants. however, the imf and the eu are calling for structural adjustments. the jordanian economy is in serious financial difficulty, which promises to destabilise it even more. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this macro-financial assistance to jordan of a maximum amount of eur 200 million. the country, which has been affected by crises in the middle east since 2011, plays a key role in the reception of people fleeing conflict zones who can come to jordan in structured camps. by helping these people to stay close to their home basins, jordan is preventing these people from coming to europe with the belief that we will be able to offer them jobs, housing, health care, and that they end up in jungles like the one that existed in calais.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this macro-financial assistance to jordan. the country hosts hundreds of thousands of syrian refugees who have come to join the palestinian refugees who have historically settled in the country and are waiting to return. in this exceptional geopolitical context, it is urgent that the european union come to the aid of this country, a rare example of stability in the region. the commission will therefore be allocating eur 200 million for this emergency aid. the european commission also committed to introduce a new proposal for macro-financial assistance of a similar amount in 2017. a proposal i support !
in writing. ‒ since 2011, the jordanian economy has been significantly affected by the conflict in syria and iraq. this is why the commission has granted a second package of macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million in the form of loans to the country. i voted in favour of granting this aid. our political group wanted to increase the amount of aid to €350 million, and in particular, in view of the task facing jordan in dealing with the thousands of refugees coming from syria, we managed to secure additional aid for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which concludes the institutional negotiations on the granting of macro-financial assistance to jordan. the jordanian economy is affected by the unrest in the region, particularly in iraq and syria. jordan hosts 1.3 million syrian refugees on its territory and this situation puts pressure on its public infrastructure. at the same time, the increase in the unemployment rate and the public debt are exacerbating the economic crisis in the country. following the international conference 'supporting syria and the region' held in london on 4 february 2016, the european union committed to continue to provide substantial support to jordan. the new macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million is granted in the form of loans and remains subject to the precondition that jordan respects effective democratic mechanisms, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ jordan is facing an influx of 1.3 million syrian refugees. the costs covered would be $6.6 billion since 2011. it is right to help jordan which is taking a large share of the burden of syrian migrants. the eu loan of €200 million is legitimate. only black spots: the imf and the eu are calling for structural adjustments. the jordanian economy is in serious financial difficulty and yet needs this help. these loans are conditional on the implementation of externally imposed rules that contradict the current state of jordanian society. if these rules are applied too rigorously and without measure (amendments nos 1 to 3 or 4), this is potentially dangerous for the stability of this country. i therefore abstained on this joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the financial crisis, the ageing population, the increase in the amount invested in occupational pension by capitalisation, and the capacity of the sector to invest in long-term assets, the commission proposed a review of the iorp1 in 2014 which presents several dangers: the creation of a single occupational pension market will enable iorps to offer their products in all member states by removing regulatory barriers to cross-border activities. this will give a definite advantage to european countries with a long experience of pension funds, in particular the benelux whose financial centres have already anticipated the benefits that this new european market could offer; new rules on the placement of risky assets which will encourage risk-taking by institutions that do not have the financial and human resources to make such investments; the introduction of rules allowing the creation of european pension funds on the american model, with the risks that the latest financial crisis has brought to light; the commission has also proposed that the pension scheme should be gradually replaced by a system of capitalisation pensions, which the french have rejected. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the continuation of efforts towards the establishment of an internal market for occupational pension schemes at european level. the purpose of this directive is to propose minimum harmonisation in this area in order to facilitate the mobility of workers between member states.
in writing. ‒ this recast of the directive proposes to support the development of a european occupational pension market and to deregulate existing standards to copy the so-called american model of pension funds. the text also goes in the direction of creating a single market for occupational pensions, and the risks are many: favourable regulation for large investment funds, rules for placing assets that are too risky or the promotion of capitalised pensions. i voted against it.
‒ i opposed this report and the commission's proposal, which are aimed at creating a single occupational pension market. i am certainly aware of the issues surrounding occupational pension institutions, as there are currently 125 000 occupational pension funds across the european union, holding eur 2 500 billion in assets on behalf of 75 million europeans. i note some good ideas from the commission, such as the obligation to monitor remuneration, a better estimation of risks and improved information for savers. however, behind its good intentions lies the real desire to deregulate existing standards in favour of the emergence of an 'american model', which will have the real consequences of favouring large investment funds and rules for placing assets that are too risky, but also, and above all, it will lead to the promotion of pension systems by capitalisation and therefore, ultimately, to a challenge to national pension systems by distribution. this is a debate that we are entitled to have, but at the national level, and not imposed by brussels in order to realize its dream of americanization of europe.
in writing. ‒ on 27 march 2014, the commission proposed a recast of directive 2003/41/ec on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (pension funds). the aim of this revision is to modernise the legislation on pension funds to make it more closely aligned with demographic developments and, in particular, with the ageing of the population. furthermore, pension funds were severely affected by the economic and financial crisis of 2008. it was important to put in place a regulatory framework that would strengthen their resilience. a pension fund is an investment fund which invests the retirement savings of many employees to make them grow. it is essential to ensure their good governance. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this codecision report aims to facilitate the development of occupational retirement savings. considering that this new regulation improves the governance of pension funds, increases transparency of information for members and beneficiaries of pension schemes, improves the supervision of pension funds and sets new rules for transfer activities and transfers, i have decided to support this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. with ageing populations, institutions, known as occupational pension institutions, are developing, using financial markets to provide retirement benefits. since this phenomenon affects all the member states of the union, it is essential that we update the european regulatory framework on the supervision of these institutions. by achieving minimum harmonisation, in particular by clarifying the procedures allowing these institutions to carry out cross-border activity, we are protecting european citizens more and are encouraging the development of the activity of these institutions throughout the european territory.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this directive can be seen as part of a desire to gradually replace divided pensions with capitalised pension systems, which has always been rejected by the french.
in writing. ‒ it is perhaps not without reason that a text on occupational pension funds and another calling for the promotion of a european market for retail financial services, including voluntary retirement savings for individuals, are voted on in the same session. this is two of the three possible levels of old age insurance with public schemes. the aim is to create a european occupational pension market and to change existing standards on the model of us pension funds, in particular by facilitating cross-border activities and international portfolio transfers within the single market, despite the diversity of social and labour rights. of course, some concessions are made in terms of prudential or governance rules, or in terms of information for savers. but all this does not compensate for the shortcomings of the text, in particular the widening of the asset classes in which these funds could invest, increasing the risk. nor does it succeed in concealing its underlying philosophy: the promotion of capitalised pensions at the expense of public systems based on distribution. it is true that the stakes are enormous and that the appetite is high. it is for the states, and the states alone, to define the nature, extent, organisation and functioning of their social protection.
in writing. ‒ this recast of the directive proposes to support the development of a european occupational pension market and to deregulate existing standards to copy the us model of pension funds. the danger of favourable regulation of investment funds, of rules on the placement of assets which are too risky and of the promotion of capitalised pensions is obvious. the latter is obviously a first step towards challenging the national pensions system by distribution. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague brian hayes on occupational pension schemes. these institutions are bodies which provide employment-related pension benefits in parallel with public pension and social security systems. the report, which is based on the principles of free movement of capital and freedom of provision, seeks to provide a framework for these entities to guarantee a secure occupational pension system for citizens. the rapporteur therefore calls for a more healthy remuneration policy, a reduction in the gender pension gap and more transparency towards members. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to facilitate the development of occupational retirement savings with the dual objective of modernisation and transparency. the text improves the governance of pension funds, increases transparency in the provision of information to members and beneficiaries of pension schemes, improves the supervision of pension funds and lays down new rules for transfer activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to support the development of a european occupational pension market and to dismantle the pension branch of social security to copy the american model of pension funds. such a system would probably be acceptable to françois fillon and his friends in the lr who voted for it, but not to me.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions. the commission's objective is to create a single market for occupational pensions which will enable all iorps to offer their products in all member states. the aim is therefore to remove the regulatory barriers that hinder crossborder activities, which will give a definite advantage to countries with long experience of pension funds. in addition, the new rules on asset placement are also dangerous because they encourage risk-taking by institutions that do not have the financial and human resources to make such investments. and the quantitative prudential requirements required are insufficient to cover the beneficiaries of supplementary pension schemes. the ultimate aim of this recast directive is to introduce rules to allow the creation of european pension funds on the american model, with the risks that the last financial crisis has brought to light. this directive can also be seen as part of a desire to gradually replace divided pensions with capitalised pension systems, which has always been rejected by the french.
in writing. ‒ this recast of the directive proposes to support the development of a european occupational pension market and to deregulate existing standards to copy the us model of pension funds. the text also goes in the direction of creating a single market for occupational pensions, and there are many risks: favourable regulation for large investment funds, rules for placing assets that are too risky or the promotion of capitalised pensions. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ pension schemes (public pillar one, private pillar two and three) and in particular those in the second and third pillars form a significant part of the financial sector. the proposal aims to use these available resources to stimulate investment. it takes account of the operation of pension funds following the deepwater horizon case, when the us authorities asked bp and shell to compensate for environmental damage. and that impacted the investment of pension funds in these companies. the proposal therefore takes environmental and social risks into account in the risk analysis. it promotes the establishment of an effective information system for all beneficiaries... but the responsibility of private institutions is very little questioned. similarly, pension funds are treated as financial products which must be treated as marketable goods on the eu financial markets. finally, the proposal does not allow for a clear separation between the private and the public pension systems, as my group has called for. the report does improve the commission's proposal, so i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns a recast of directive 2003/41/ec on occupational pension institutions, known as iorp1. in the face of the financial crisis, the ageing population, the increase in the amount invested in occupational retirement by capitalisation, and the sector's ability to invest in long-term assets, the commission proposed a review of iorp1 in 2014 with the following objectives: to improve governance, to improve saver information through the introduction of the pbs, to facilitate cross-border activities and international portfolio transfers within the single market, to encourage long-term investment by allowing iorps to invest in more asset classes. the proposal for a directive aims to support the development of a european occupational pension market and to deregulate existing standards to replicate the us model of pension funds. the dangers are: favourable regulation for large investment funds, rules on investing too risky assets and the promotion of capitalised pensions. i therefore voted against the commission proposal and the legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the iorp directive would largely introduce funded pension schemes. the risk for a country like france is that it is preparing to abandon the distribution model to which the citizens are attached. again, the aim is to promote financial markets and established players in professional savings products, mainly in luxembourg or belgium. the risk on funded pensions, in a time of negative rates and high market volatility, is too high to be encouraged further. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns a recast of directive 2003/41/ec on occupational pension institutions, known as iorp1. this directive suggests a desire to move a little more towards a private funded pension system. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. the aim of this text is to modernise this legislation so that it is fairer and more in line with demographic developments and, in particular, the ageing of the population. it provides in particular for clarification of the procedures allowing institutions to carry out cross-border activity and for the removal of unnecessary obstacles to such activity, in order to improve the functioning of the internal market in this field.
in writing. pension schemes constitute a significant part of the financial resources available within the union and the purpose of this directive is to use these resources to motivate investment. in order to ensure worker mobility, the directive seeks to unify pension systems in order to facilitate worker mobility within the eu. while significant progress has been made in the development of the text, such as the inclusion of environmental and social data in the fund's investments, aimed at increasing transparency and information for beneficiaries, the nature of the pension fund remains and parliament's requests to further restrict investment opportunities to ensure its security have not been heard. in fact, despite some positive progress, the result is not satisfactory, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for greater protection, transparency, information and security in the way occupational pension funds are managed. providers of occupational pension schemes wishing to move their operations across national borders will now have to receive the approval of a majority of their members and the support of regulators in both the home and the beneficiary countries.
in writing. ‒ this recast of the directive proposes to support the development of a european occupational pension market and to deregulate existing standards to copy the us model of pension funds. however, the pitfalls are: regulations that are too favourable to large investment funds, rules on investment of assets that are too risky, promotion of pension by capitalisation (as opposed to the distribution model). i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the european union cannot and must not remain silent in the face of the massacre which is taking place in syria. the eu should act collectively through its high representative and lead international efforts to find a swift diplomatic solution to the syrian civil war. this is an emergency!
in writing. - i voted against the false joint resolution on the situation in syria. the european parliament once again wants to send back the various islamist militias and the syrian loyalist troops, their russian and iranian allies, back to back. once again, it is maintaining groundless and politically disastrous accusations against the syrian regime and its iranian and russian allies, thus contributing to the escalation of the chaos and humanitarian disaster on the ground, as well as to the dramatic damage to the interests of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i wish to express once again my deepest concern at the continuing fighting and bombardments on syrian territory. the atrocities and widespread violations of human rights must be denounced in the strongest possible terms. i hope that these crimes will not go unpunished because the protection of civilians must be the first priority in a conflict of this magnitude.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which maintains the baseless and politically catastrophic accusations against the syrian regime and its iranian and russian allies. by sending back terrorist groups and lawful authorities, it contributes to the disorder and humanitarian disaster on the ground and harms the economic interests of the member states.
in writing. ‒ while i supported the resolution tabled by the enl group, which rightly highlights turkey's ambiguous role in the syrian crisis, i voted against the joint resolution by the main political groups in parliament, which will only worsen the diplomatic relations of european countries with russia or syria, which are on the front line in the fight against the islamic state. i take this opportunity to denounce the scandalous conflation of terrorist forces and sovereign states in this text: diplomacy has reached zero, confusing arbitrary morality with strategic interests. but it is also a lie at european level, since the abuses committed by terrorists in the zone are mainly blamed on russia. finally, the demand for a no-fly zone over aleppo is not only a sign of strategic ignorance but also an admission of the european union's incompetence and total impotence in the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria. parliament expressed its deepest concern at the worsening humanitarian situation in syria. it condemned all attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure. the inability to deliver humanitarian aid to the syrian population aggravates the humanitarian situation, which is why an agreement by the parties on permanent access to humanitarian aid remains essential, particularly in besieged and hard-to-reach areas. it is essential to condemn the atrocities committed by daesh and to call for the religious and ethnic minorities in syria, including christians, to be respected and to be able to continue to live in their homeland in safety and to practice their religion freely without being subject to any form of coercion, violence or discrimination.
in writing. the situation in syria is dramatic. i voted in favour of this text, although no resolution we will vote on will really be able to speak of the horror and chaos in syria. the european impotence in the face of the conflict and the terrorist organisations that are developing is intolerable. with this vote we have once again condemned in the strongest terms the violence and indiscriminate attacks on civilians, particularly in aleppo. i also reiterate my full support for persecuted minorities, and in particular christians, in the face of the atrocities they are suffering.
in writing. ‒ we voted against all these resolutions, which make a scandalous amalgamation between rebel militias and syrian state forces, as well as the russian armed forces. the enf group tabled an alternative motion for a resolution.
in writing. - for six years, not a single day has passed in syria without its share of misfortune. throughout the country, fighting and bombing continues, increasingly targeting civilians and infrastructure. humanitarian aid is now blocked from reaching the terrified and blood-soaked syrian population. it is not the first time that the european parliament has sounded the alarm, but the escalation of the war and the tragedy in aleppo called for a new strong and unequivocal reaction from our assembly. in this context, where outrage is no longer enough, we can therefore only welcome the recent diplomatic initiatives of the vp/hr federica mogherini to urge all parties to the conflict to resume and intensify political negotiations. but these efforts, however commendable, must be accelerated and strengthened. the european union has a threefold role to play: to step up diplomatic efforts to achieve an immediate ceasefire and lasting peace; to allow continuous and unhindered humanitarian access; and to ensure that all those responsible for violations of international humanitarian law and human rights are brought to justice in order to lay a solid foundation for post-conflict reconciliation.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, this resolution feeds into the unfounded and politically clumsy accusations against the syrian state and its iranian and russian allies. by drawing a dubious parallel between terrorist groups and legitimate and recognized states, it contributes to increasing the scale of the humanitarian disaster and the misery on the ground, and to causing dramatic damage to the interests of the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria, which notes the deterioration of the humanitarian situation. the parties are called upon to respect international humanitarian law by ceasing the bombing of civilians and civilian infrastructure. with the support of the member states, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy should play a more prominent role on behalf of the eu in the negotiations for a peace agreement in syria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is balanced and seeks answers to the situation in syria, which is worsening day by day. it condemned all attacks on civilians, stressed the ambiguous role of turkey, condemned the supply of arms to jihadist groups and called for the resumption of negotiations with a view to establishing a firm ceasefire.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it maintains the baseless and politically disastrous accusations against the syrian regime and its iranian and russian allies. by sending back terrorist groups and legitimate states, it is contributing to the chaos and humanitarian disaster on the ground and to the dramatic damage to the interests of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the situation in syria. by throwing back terrorist groups and the syrian army and its allies, this resolution contributes to the escalation of the chaos and humanitarian disaster on the ground, as well as to the dramatic damage to the interests of member states. the enf group tabled amendments stressing the ambiguous role of turkey, the links between the syrian crisis and the migration crisis, and the risks of the use of chemical weapons by terrorist groups. these three amendments were rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which maintains the baseless and politically catastrophic accusations against the syrian regime and its iranian and russian allies. by sending terrorist groups and legitimate states back to back, it contributes to the disorder and humanitarian disaster on the ground, and harms the economic interests of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the situation in aleppo and in syria remains dramatic, due to the abuses committed by daesh and other jihadist groups and the resulting military escalation with the damascus regime. but this resolution is just a pretext to attack russia once again. it condemns in the same sentence bashar al-assad, russia and daesh. as if they could be put on the same plane! the resolution envisages the creation of a no-fly zone over aleppo, modelled on what was done in libya to facilitate the subsequent nato air invasion. this would be tantamount to granting impunity and even protection to the jihadists who every week fire missiles (often us) from east aleppo towards the rest of the city. i am voting against this text, which only expresses the eu's bellicose view of russia, without proposing any useful path for peace in syria.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution maintains groundless and politically disastrous accusations against the syrian regime and its iranian and russian allies. by sending terrorist groups and legitimate states back to back, it contributes to the disorder and humanitarian disaster on the ground and dramatically harms the interests of member states. i therefore voted against this joint resolution and against the resolutions of the other political groups, with the exception of the gue/ngl group, on which i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which once again calls for an end to the massacres in syria, which have resulted in the deaths of many people, including many civilians. the massacres will only end when all the countries determined to eradicate the islamic state are united in a single and effective coalition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls in particular for those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity in syria to be brought to justice by international courts. i also condemn the deliberate and continuous attacks on civilians, humanitarian workers and health facilities in aleppo by the regime of bashar al-assad, supported by russia and iran. i call on the high representative, federica mogherini, to use all diplomatic tools at our disposal to put pressure on the syrian regime and its supporters. it is crucial that the european union plays a leading role in the reconciliation and reconstruction of syria.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution which condemns the atrocities committed by the regime of bashar al-assad, but also by the islamic state and terrorist organisations against the syrian people. the parties to the conflict must immediately stop bombing civilians and public infrastructure. it is essential that the population have access to humanitarian aid. the syrian people are now victims of grave war crimes and crimes against humanity which will not go unpunished.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the bombing and indiscriminate attacks on civilians and civilian facilities in syria, particularly in the city of aleppo. the text calls on all parties to the conflict in syria to ensure access to humanitarian aid for syrians throughout the country. the siege of aleppo is a critical example of the willingness of some parties to the conflict to starve the people. this is an intolerable violation of international humanitarian law. the people must have access to humanitarian aid, and that access must be ensured by the forces present in syria. those responsible for these crimes will have to face international justice. it is urgent that negotiations for a political solution be resumed and that all parties to the conflict be involved. the european institutions and the member states must fully support the un in order to achieve a viable solution in syria that puts an end to this human and humanitarian tragedy. it is no longer acceptable that civilians, especially children, are the targets of aerial bombardments and the first victims of the lack of humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ the proposed resolutions only send back and forth between the various islamist militias and the syrian loyalist troops and their legal allies russia and iran. this is unacceptable and contrary to international law. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this is the seventh resolution on syria that we have adopted since the beginning of this mandate. many serious questions are raised. but this resolution once again bears the mark of 'double standards'. all parties to the conflict are condemned, but the only states party to the conflict mentioned by name are bashar al-assad's syria, russia and iran. daesh, al nostra and other jihadist groups are also mentioned but not a word is said to denounce those who have armed or financed them. nor is there any mention of our duty of solidarity towards refugees fleeing the conflict. nothing on the humanitarian visas that are absolutely necessary. nothing but self-satisfaction that the union is one of the main providers of humanitarian aid to the people on the ground. it also called on the parties to allow permanent and unhindered access for humanitarian aid to the victims and for an immediate end to the bombing and attacks against civilians. i have chosen to abstain in solidarity with the victims, regretting that the european parliament is not able to go further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the freezing of turkey's accession negotiations. we are extremely concerned about the continuous purges that have been carried out since the attempted coup in turkey: all the principles of the rule of law are being gradually dismantled by mr erdogan. the infringements of the independence of the judiciary and freedom of expression are unacceptable inside and outside the european union. turkey's role in managing migration flows cannot silence us on mr erdogan's repeated attacks on democracy. we are also considering suspending pre-accession aid. we must do everything we can to ensure that mr erdogan respects the rule of law and human rights. our credibility is at stake. but the door to the union remains open. that is why we have blocked the attacks by members who wanted the negotiations to be suspended. such a suspension would de facto amount to a halt to the negotiations, since their resumption would require unanimity in the council. our condition for a return to the talks is clear, that is the return of a turkish government that respects the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the freezing of negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union. since the start of these negotiations in 2005, this is the first time that parliament has called for a sanction against this country, which does not meet the eu accession criteria at all. the national front is in favour of the definitive halt to the accession negotiations with turkey. not only is turkey not a european country, but fundamental rights are constantly and systematically violated. the arrest of mps, magistrates and journalists is unacceptable, as is the censorship of the media and social networks. turkey must also stop the persecution of religious minorities, in particular. between 2005 and 2016, the european union provided nearly €10 billion to turkey under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). it is unacceptable to continue to pay for turkey. turkey cannot claim to be european because of its history, its culture or its geography, and even less so since the authoritarian and islamist takeover by erdogan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i believe it is our duty to strongly condemn the excessive repressive measures applied in turkey since july 2016. the freezing of the current accession negotiations is a good measure, as the deviations from the rule of law and human rights are not tolerable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which, while still not calling for the end or even the suspension of the negotiations, which would allow the pre-accession aid to be stopped, is the first since 2005 to call for sanctions against turkey.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this joint resolution on the freezing of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. this resolution does not go far enough in my view and should propose a definitive halt to the negotiations. moreover, on the level of 'values', turkey is far from meeting european requirements, particularly in terms of freedom of expression or respect for pluralism; but still, its more than troubling role in the syrian crisis may make us question whether we can continue to consider turkey as an ally in the fight against terrorism. moreover, as regards questions of democratic legitimacy, it should be remembered that a majority of the citizens of the eu member states are against this accession. it is also worrying that through some statements, turkey seems to want to challenge the treaty of lausanne, which had fixed the borders of modern turkey. this could be a threat, particularly to cyprus, which, it seems necessary to recall, is a member state of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union to be frozen. this is the first time since the start of the discussions in 2005. we are certainly in favour of the definitive closure of the accession negotiations with turkey. a country where fundamental rights are regularly violated. turkey cannot claim to be a member of the european union because of its history, culture or geography, let alone under the authoritarian presidency of erdogan. i voted in favour of this text, which seeks to freeze these negotiations, at the very least.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-turkey relations which calls for the freezing of accession negotiations with turkey. turkey has no intention of being a member of the european union and the accession negotiations are being lied to by the turkish people. parliament is particularly concerned about the repression and the threat of president erdogan's re-introduction of the death penalty. the democratic deficit and the consideration of reintroducing the death penalty are measures that contravene human rights. turkey must respect the union's acquis and stop challenging international treaties. the eu-turkey strategic partnership is of great benefit to both partners and the european parliament will continue to advocate the deepening of economic and customs relations between the eu and turkey.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for the temporary freezing of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the eu, in view of the political developments in the country. this resolution clearly shows that the positions of the french delegation on this issue are gaining ground. i would like to reiterate that turkey has no intention of becoming a member of the european union. i nevertheless consider turkey to be an indispensable partner of the european union, even though turkey is currently suffering from a worrying drift in the violation of fundamental rights. for these reasons, i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for a freeze on the accession negotiations with turkey. i would have liked to have gone further and made it clear that we were putting an end to these negotiations. turkey has no intention of joining the european union. the serious concerns raised by the repressive measures introduced following the attempted coup d'état are a further striking illustration of this. however, the freezing of negotiations is the most realistic approach today, and a strong signal to stop any progress in these negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on relations between the european union and turkey. we must send a clear message to turkey that no negotiations can take place under such conditions. moreover, an immediate freeze of negotiations as proposed in this resolution is the most realistic solution at international level. the european union and turkey are meant to be economic partners and to cooperate on their security policy, and that is why we must not completely break off the dialogue. but it has no place as a member state, because of its geographical location and political instability.
in writing. ‒ democracy and eu membership have been a means for turkish president erdogan to take on responsibilities. today, the mask falls. in a position of strength particularly in the face of the refugee crisis and the rise of the terrorist threat recep erdogan is implementing all the features of a dictatorship: despotism, personality cult, enrichment of his relatives ... the situation is extremely worrying, and i am regularly approached by academics and journalists. strategically, recep erdogan has an interest in pushing for the break... he wants to be able to rely on eu decisions to justify his choices, including building other alliances with central asia and russia. however, we must ensure that european values are respected and not sacrificed on the altar of realpolitik. the reintroduction of the death penalty is a red line. the freezing of negotiations accompanied by a budgetary freeze of the pre-accession payments which i wished to add to the original text is a first formal response which i support.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the text also calls for a freeze on accession negotiations with turkey, a country which does not meet any of the criteria for membership of the european union: in addition to not belonging to the european continent, turkey has recently distinguished itself by its savage repression of journalists, judges and mps, in addition to the violations of fundamental rights frequently reported in this country (in particular the oppression of religious minorities). in addition, between 2005 and 2016, the european union paid nearly 10 billion to turkey under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa), which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ fn-rbm meps in the european parliament voted in favour of the resolution calling for the freezing of negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union. since the start of these negotiations in 2005, this is the first time that parliament has called for a sanction against this country, which does not meet the eu accession criteria at all.
in writing. ‒ this joint resolution, although reduced to a minimum in comparison with the texts it compiles and replaces, some of which were much better, is a pleasant surprise. this is the first time that parliament itself has called for a freeze on negotiations. this would also be a first: accession negotiations were opened although the required preconditions, in particular the 'copenhagen criteria', were far from being met. it is only time to acknowledge that they are still not, more than 10 years later, and that the situation has even worsened. i regret, however, that this late and incomplete lucidity was not extended to the resolution on syria, dominated by your unhealthy hatred of russia and the syrian regime. the resolution continues to pit the protagonists of the syrian conflict, terrorist groups or legitimate governments, against each other, to believe in the existence of 'moderate rebels' and to conceal the direct or indirect responsibility of countries such as qatar or saudi arabia. and, of course, mr erdogan's turkey as well. consistency is not your strong suit.
in writing. ‒ the message is clear: the european parliament voted this morning in favour of a temporary freeze on eu accession negotiations with turkey. i welcome this vote which i hope will be a first step towards the final conclusion of the discussions. we must go further, remove the ambiguities and say loud and clear that turkey has no vocation to be part of the eu. its provocative attitude and its retrograde and authoritarian policy call for firmness... moreover, the bad faith of its leader, tayyip erdogan, and his contempt for europe make turkey an unreliable partner at the moment. the door to negotiations must be closed once and for all!
in writing. ‒ the situation in turkey is deteriorating day by day; freedom of expression is being violated, the press is being muzzled, political opponents, human rights defenders, journalists and teachers are being arrested; this has to stop. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the freezing of negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union. the aim is not to abandon these negotiations but to send a clear message to president erdogan that the direction taken by the turkish authorities is neither acceptable nor compatible with membership of the european union. these negotiations can resume as soon as the rule of law is restored throughout the country and the defence of democracy is again the priority of the turkish government.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and turkey have always been delicate, as the messages we have been sending to this strategic partner have been blurred for decades. we must reaffirm our commitment to close cooperation with turkey, whether on trade relations, security policy in the mediterranean region or migration policy. however, turkey is a country of 80 million people bordering countries as unstable as syria and iraq, with only 3% of its territory in europe. turkey has no intention of joining the european union. we must be clear on this and close all the chapters of negotiations which are only a facade. the purges in turkey are causing a great deal of concern in europe, and rightly so. president erdogan's authoritarian drift and the threats he is making to force the hand of europeans on the issues of accession and visa liberalisation must encourage us to come together because if we give in to these pressures or hold an inaudible message, europe will definitely lose all credibility and will no longer represent the protective hat that it is already struggling to defend today.
in writing. ‒ the negotiations are frozen for the time being, but there is still no formal suspension of preaccession aid payments. however, it should be noted that this is the first time since 2005 that the european parliament has called for a real sanction against turkey, pushing the catastrophic prospect of accession a little further away. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms renate sommer, on the eu-turkey resolution. since the attempted coup in turkey last july, arrests and purges of pro-kurdish journalists and mps have increased alarmingly, raising serious questions about the future of eu-turkey relations. in this context, and in line with my consistent position on the subject, i voted in favour of freezing the accession negotiations with turkey, which has no intention of joining the european union. even though it is supposed to be an important partner of europe, turkey has embarked on a path incompatible with european values, so it was time to send a strong signal to president erdogan by asking that the accession negotiations stop. the authoritarian turkish excesses must put an end to the hypocrisy of the member states which irresponsibly suggest to turkey the prospect of accession, knowing full well that such accession is not unanimous and therefore cannot take place. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for the immediate freezing of the accession negotiations with turkey. if this country is a strategic partner of the eu, it must under no circumstances become a member. we must put an end to this false, hypocritical suspense. this is a first step, and it is now up to the states to put a definitive end to any prospect of turkish membership.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it is true that it only asks for a freeze on negotiations with turkey. it is not yet a formal suspension that would stop iap payments (pre-accession aid), but this is the first time since 2005 that the european parliament has called for a real sanction against turkey.
in writing. ‒ every day, there are more and more signs that turkey is moving away from the values of the european union: alarming dismissals of civil servants, judges and military officers, arrests of politicians and journalists, possible reintroduction of the death penalty... the latest provocation is the introduction of a bill that proposes to abolish the conviction for sexual assault of a minor if the perpetrator marries the victim. the bill was finally referred to committee but still not withdrawn! i have therefore supported this resolution in which we call for the immediate freezing of the accession negotiations between the european union and turkey. for many years, this country has been engaged in a process of discussion and negotiations with a view to possible membership of the european union, but in the face of such violations of human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression, we cannot continue to act as if nothing had happened. we also strongly oppose any liberalization of entry visas for turkish nationals on the territory of the union. turkey is certainly a strategic and indispensable partner, but we cannot remain silent in the face of these anti-democratic acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on relations between the european union and turkey, as it calls for the freezing of negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union. since the start of these negotiations in 2005, this is the first time that parliament has called for a sanction against this country, which does not meet the criteria for eu membership at all. the national front is in favour of the definitive halt to the accession negotiations with turkey. not only is turkey not a european country, but fundamental rights are constantly and systematically violated. the arrest of mps, magistrates and journalists is unacceptable, as is the censorship of the media and social networks. turkey must also stop the persecution of religious and other minorities. between 2005 and 2016, the european union provided nearly €10 billion to turkey under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). it is unacceptable to continue to pay for turkey. turkey cannot claim to be european because of its history, its culture or its geography, and even less so since the authoritarian and islamist takeover by erdoğan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which, while still not calling for the formal suspension of negotiations, which would stop the payment of pre-accession aid, is the first since 2005 to call for sanctions against turkey.
in writing. ‒ the human rights situation in turkey has been deteriorating for several years and especially since 2009, and even more so since the parliamentary elections. following the alleged coup attempt in july 2016, thousands of people were arrested. the state closed 112 media outlets, including 45 newspapers, 26 television channels, 23 radio stations, 3 news agencies, 15 magazines and 29 publishing houses. more than 620 press cards were cancelled, and at least 200 journalists were arrested. the resolution strongly condemns the repressive measures applied in turkey. it also recalled that the reintroduction of the death penalty would have the effect of suspending the accession process. i vote for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this is a freeze on the negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union. it is not yet a formal suspension that would stop iap payments, but this is the first time since 2005 that the european parliament has called for a real sanction against turkey. so i voted for it. as a reminder, we are in favour of a definitive halt to the accession negotiations with turkey.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposed freezing the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. we are totally opposed to this idea, but this formal suspension is not enough. in particular, it does not allow the payment of ipa (pre-accession aid) to be stopped. we want a complete halt to the negotiations. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which proposes to freeze the process of turkey's accession to the european union. for my part, i have always considered that this country has no place in the european union, whether geographically, historically or culturally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for a temporary freeze on turkey's accession negotiations with the european union. the disproportionate repressive measures adopted by turkish president recep tayyip erdoğan since the failed coup have led to a decline in the rule of law and democracy. if we are to continue the dialogue with turkey, with the restoration of the rule of law and respect for human rights as a horizon, it is not credible at the moment to continue these negotiations. we hope that the council, when it meets in december, will hear our message.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to temporarily freeze the negotiations with turkey. i strongly condemn the actions and attitude of the administration of president erdoğan, which regularly violates fundamental rights and freedoms by repressing opponents of the regime in a totally disproportionate manner and which threatens to revert to the death penalty. i would like to reiterate my total opposition to turkey's joining our community of destiny, even though it remains a key partner of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the freezing of negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union. since the start of these negotiations in 2005, this is the first time that parliament has called for a sanction against this country, which does not meet the criteria for eu membership at all. the national front is in favour of the definitive halt to the accession negotiations with turkey. not only is turkey not a european country, but fundamental rights are constantly and systematically violated. the arrest of mps, magistrates and journalists is unacceptable, as is the censorship of the media and social networks. turkey must also stop the persecution of religious minorities. between 2005 and 2016, the european union provided nearly €10 billion to turkey under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). it is unacceptable to continue to pay for turkey. turkey cannot claim to be european because of its history, its culture or its geography, and even less so since the authoritarian and islamist takeover by erdoğan.
in writing. ‒ following the coup attempt in turkey, which was unanimously condemned, the regime of recep tayyip erdoğan launched a crackdown affecting all sectors of society. the repression is now estimated to affect nearly 130 000 people. the state of emergency was declared on 20 july 2016 and renewed for three months from 19 october 2016. thousands of civil servants in the military, the police, the judiciary, the education and health sectors have been dismissed. ngos have warned of the constant violations of human rights. many local and national elected officials of the progressive hdp party have been dismissed or arrested. this resolution strongly condemns the disproportionate repressive measures applied in turkey. it called on the commission and the member states to suspend the accession negotiations currently under way. the resolution also makes it clear that the reintroduction of the death penalty would ipso facto lead to the suspension of turkey's accession process to the union. it must also be followed up by action in the other european institutions, and in particular the council, which alone has the power to take a decision in this area. this position of the european parliament is important to all democrats and progressives in turkey. i voted for this resolution, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution to make the fight against violence against women and girls a priority for all! 45% of women in europe have experienced gender-based violence at least once in their lives. because of the lack of harmonisation of policies in this area at european level, they are not protected in the same way depending on the country in which they live. there is a tool to better protect women, prevent violence and prosecute those responsible: the council of europe's istanbul convention, the first international legally binding instrument on the subject. although all the member states have signed the convention, only 14 of them have ratified it, including france. for this reason, the european commission proposed in march 2016 that the european union could accede to the istanbul convention. this would be a very important step forward in further harmonising measures to combat this unacceptable gender-based violence which persists in europe today.
in writing. ‒ the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women is an international treaty adopted in 2011 in istanbul. it aims to eradicate all acts of gender-based violence which cause women physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering. it imposes a binding legal framework prohibiting forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced sterilization and sexual harassment. it should also be noted that the convention includes more questionable objectives, particularly on abortion. by august 2016, 42 countries had signed it, including all member states, and 21 countries had ratified it, including 14 member states, including france. the joint motion for a resolution calls on the council and the commission to speed up the negotiations with a view to acceding to the convention and calls on the member states to ratify it. the text also emphasises the protection of refugees and women seeking asylum. the eu has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention. once again, this is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states, which will now be forced to ratify it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the guarantee and promotion of equality between women and men is an indisputable objective of the european union, guaranteed by the treaties. the accession of the union to the istanbul convention will help the union to ensure a coherent legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women. for this reason, i welcomed the commission's proposal to sign and conclude the accession and therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ while the aim of this resolution is laudable, i consider that the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention, which would impose it on the member states, who should be the ones to decide. the european union would once again overstep its bounds and undermine the sovereignty of states, which is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this motion for a resolution on the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. in my view, the signing of international conventions and treaties must remain the prerogative of sovereign states, the only ones capable of playing an effective and legitimate diplomatic role at international level. i would remind you that france has already ratified the istanbul convention. of course, some forms of violence, especially against women, are intolerable, such as female genital mutilation and forced sterilization. i am surprised, however, that other types of violence are not included in the same bag, such as the submission to the veil and religion in some communal areas in europe, or the impossibility, for some women who wish to have access to alternative solutions to abortion. finally, i found it difficult to see how women refugees and asylum seekers could be entitled to greater protection and consideration than european women, as appears to be the case in this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women aims to eradicate all acts of gender-based violence that cause physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm and suffering. among the laudable goals are the prohibition of forced marriage, female genital mutilation and forced sterilization in the signatory countries. the joint motion for a resolution recommends that the council and the commission ratify the convention and allocate sufficient financial resources to combat this violence effectively. we consider that the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention. this is a further attack on the sovereignty of the member states. the european union must first ensure that women have their first right: the right to security. the development of fundamentalism in europe and the current migration flood, reinforced by the mechanism of compulsory distribution of migrants, directly threaten the freedom and physical integrity of women. this is evidenced by the explosion in the number of sexual assaults, particularly in cologne and sweden. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the european union's accession to the istanbul convention. accession to this convention will ensure a coherent european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence and to protect victims of such violence. the aim is not only to combat such violence but also to provide the means to prevent it, in particular through the implementation of relevant union legislation, programmes and funds for monitoring. the convention will help to improve the collection of data on violence against women and gender-based violence at union level. accession strengthens the union's responsibility at international level and exerts political pressure on the member states to ratify this instrument.
in writing. ‒ on 4 march 2016, the commission proposed that the european union accede to the istanbul convention, the first legally binding international instrument to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. the european parliament was therefore called upon to give its opinion on this accession. considering that it is the duty of the european union to be an example in defending women's rights, so as to pave the way for its international partners, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, of which i was a co-signer, for the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the figures are more than alarming. one in three women has experienced at least one experience of physical or sexual violence in her adult life. it is essential that the european union should become more involved in the fight we are waging by adopting this legally binding instrument at international level. only 14 of the member states of the european union have ratified the convention. i'm sorry about that. violence against women is a real scourge affecting every member state. no one can afford to turn a blind eye to this brutality. i therefore call on the council to conclude the negotiations in this direction as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european union and its member states to ratify swiftly the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the convention sets minimum standards for protection against violence against women, including legislation to improve protection for victims and to prosecute perpetrators. the resolution we voted on raises awareness of this issue, and i think it is essential that the european union is fully involved in the fight against violence against women.
in writing. ‒ this international convention, signed on 11 may 2011 in istanbul, prohibits, among other things, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced sterilisation and sexual harassment, but also deals with abortion, which is more questionable. the joint motion for a resolution calls on the council and the european commission to speed up the negotiations with a view to acceding to the convention. we consider that this is a matter for the member states to decide. it is in this spirit, moreover, that we supported the alternative resolution of the ecr group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the european union to accede to the istanbul convention, which is the first legally binding international instrument to combat violence against women. it makes it possible, for example, to criminalise physical and psychological violence, to offer safe havens to victims of violence, to educate about gender equality, etc. in order to eradicate violence against women, governments and the european union have their share of responsibility. we must legislate to change the law and the mentality in depth. and in this struggle, our legislation must be aligned with the istanbul convention. of the 28 member states that signed it, only half have ratified it. the european commission proposed eu accession to the convention last march. but it is time to step up the pace: the eu must join and implement the convention, and push member states to do the same. that is the message of this parliament's resolution, which i supported. a european approach is essential to protect women in the best possible way and in the same way, regardless of where they live in europe.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention and that this, as usual, undermines the sovereignty of the member states. the ecr group's motion for a resolution defends this sovereignty by merely reminding the states of their responsibility in combating all forms of violence, including violence against men. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues anna maria corazza bildt and barbara matera on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention. adopted in 2011, the convention sets minimum standards for the protection of victims of violence against women and aims to better protect victims by ensuring that perpetrators are properly prosecuted. this accession is not symbolic, it sends a real commitment of the european union and parliamentarians to the defence of women's rights. through this accession, the union will be able to encourage european countries to transmit data on violence against women and thus better combat this scourge. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to push member states to ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the european union must be a party to this first european tool to set legally binding standards to prevent gender-based violence, protect victims of violence and punish perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls that the ratification and application of this convention is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ november 25 is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. by submitting an oral question to the council and the commission, and by tabled ing this resolution, of which i am a co-author, we have sought to draw attention to this scourge, which is a disgrace for every european country. i naturally voted in favour of this resolution, to urge the european union and all its member states to ratify swiftly the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. beyond the ratification by the member states (half of them have not yet done so), it seems to me important that the european union sends a strong signal to show its commitment. the convention, for example, makes it compulsory to introduce legislation that makes violence against women a criminal offence and provides for strong penalties against the perpetrators. it also means that countries have to provide themselves with increased budgetary and human resources for the establishment of shelters and reception centres for raped women, and for raising awareness to change behaviour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women is an international treaty adopted on 11 may 2011 in istanbul. the convention aims to eradicate all acts of gender-based violence which cause women physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering. it imposes a binding legal framework on signatory states to prohibit forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced sterilization and sexual harassment.
in writing. ‒ while the aim of this resolution is laudable, i consider that the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention, which would impose it on the member states, who should be the ones to decide. the european union would once again overstep its bounds and undermine the sovereignty of states, which is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this 25 november marks the un's international day for the elimination of violence against women. the council of europe's istanbul convention (2011) is the first legally binding international instrument on this subject. the resolution encourages the 14 member states which have not yet done so to ratify it. it is a powerful symbol, as it demands that equal rights be guaranteed to all citizens and residents of europe, including refugees and asylum seekers. the resolution also calls for the harmonisation of statistics on violence against women by the authorities, as some countries do not report on certain types of violence. it also stresses the lack of sufficient financial and human resources for the prevention and inclusion of gender equality in all public policies. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion for a resolution calls on the council and the european commission to speed up the negotiations with a view to acceding to the istanbul convention. it therefore calls on all member states to ratify the convention and to allocate adequate financial resources to combat violence against women effectively. the resolution also stresses the protection of refugees and women seeking asylum. we consider that the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention. once again, this is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states, which will now be forced to ratify it. i therefore opposed the resolution. on the other hand, i voted in favour of the ecr motion for a resolution which recalls that the ratification and application of this convention is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for a resolution calls on the council and the european commission to speed up negotiations with a view to acceding to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. they also call on all member states to ratify the istanbul convention and to allocate adequate financial resources to effectively combat violence against women. the resolution also stresses the protection of refugees and women seeking asylum. we consider that the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention. once again, this is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states, which will now be forced to ratify it.
in writing. ‒ only states can legitimately ratify or reject a convention. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. although all eu countries have signed the text, not all have ratified it yet. accession by the european union as such will send a strong signal to countries that have not yet ratified the text at a time when, according to who, 30% of women worldwide are victims of domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the international day against violence against women, i voted in favour of this resolution to encourage the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. one in three women in europe has been the victim of physical or sexual violence in her lifetime, and it is our responsibility to ensure that this scourge is brought to an end. this accession will enable us to improve the protection of victims and to condemn more the perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ gender-based violence, which is widespread in the european union, is often tolerated and rarely punished. in order to break the silence and give a voice to all victims, parliament adopted a strong resolution to recall the urgency of action to address violence against women and girls. fighting such violence means working for equality between women and men. to this end, it is important to prevent violence, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators, through adequate resources that can be mobilised at all levels of society. the istanbul convention, a binding international treaty, takes precisely this overall approach. the union's accession to the convention will be a first step in advancing the fight against violence against women. after ratification, a european directive is the next essential step to strengthen the implementation of the convention. in this context, i will continue to work to ensure that abortion can become a fundamental right recognised and protected by the union. denying this right is a violation of human rights and a characteristic of violence against women. i regret that the text we have voted for does not mention this.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution calling for the early accession of the european union to the istanbul convention. violence against women remains a matter of concern in all member states. in this context, the union must as soon as possible accede to the istanbul convention, the first legally binding international instrument on preventing and combating violence against women. however, discussions on the subject in the council are dragging on. this resolution intensifies the pressure on the member states to ratify the convention and urges the council to reach an agreement as soon as possible. it highlights the added value of the union's accession to the convention: measures to prevent and combat violence against women will be more uniform at european level, and action on gender equality, anti-discrimination and public health will be strengthened. in addition, eu accession to the convention will ensure better data collection on the extent and nature of violence against women. this resolution is a strong political message and a further step in the fight against gender-based violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which urges the european union to accede to the council of europe's istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. a few days before the international day for the elimination of violence against women, it was crucial that the european union show its commitment and determination to combat all forms of violence against women by acceding to this convention. accession to the convention will enable the union to collect comparable and up-to-date data on violence against women from the member states in order to combat this phenomenon more effectively. it is unacceptable that today in europe, one in three women has been a victim of violence in her lifetime. it is crucial that the european union and the member states fully engage in the fight against this scourge, protect the victims and combat the silence surrounding this violence.
in writing. ‒ 25 november is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. this day should be an opportunity to remind people that every year thousands of women are victims of violence. this ranges from street harassment to sexual assault, domestic violence and sometimes murder. according to a 2014 report by the european agency for fundamental rights, almost 67% of women felt they had been victims of violence in the past year. the european union's accession to the istanbul convention was therefore expected. it aims to prevent violence, protect victims, and punish perpetrators, by providing sufficient and adequate resources to implement a range of actions. the vote on this resolution shows that violence against women is not a problem for women alone but for society as a whole, which must take strong and urgent action against this scourge. this accession is only the first step in a comprehensive policy.
in writing. ‒ the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women is an international treaty adopted on 11 may 2011 in istanbul. the convention aims to eradicate all acts of gender-based violence which cause women physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering. it imposes a binding legal framework on signatory states to prohibit forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced sterilization and sexual harassment. the joint motion for a resolution calls on the council and the european commission to speed up the negotiations for eu accession to the convention. they also call on all member states to ratify the istanbul convention and to allocate adequate financial resources to effectively combat violence against women. the resolution also stresses the protection of refugees and women seeking asylum. we consider that the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy to ratify such a convention. once again, this is an attack on the sovereignty of the member states, which will now be forced to ratify it. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ a report by the european agency for fundamental rights (fra) indicates that in 2014, one third of women in the european union experienced sexual or physical violence at least once in their lives. it is recalled that in france a woman dies every three days from the blows of her husband or partner. and the common male, the source of all evil, has a good day ahead of him. in march 2016, the commission proposed eu accession to the council of europe's istanbul convention, the first binding legal instrument in this field, which takes a holistic approach to violence against women and gender-based violence. this resolution encourages those member states which have not yet done so (14!) to ratify the convention and supports eu accession, which would at least harmonise statistics on violence against women by requiring states to postpone all incidents and to strengthen their prevention. this accession is welcome, even if it is not enough: a european framework directive would be needed. it is nevertheless a step in the right direction, and i voted in favour of it.
‒ a lot of transparency issues, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector). as for aid to migrants, it is in itself a good reason to vote against it. following the launch of the reform proposals for the european network of ombudsmen (eno), the european network conducted a survey on the fundamental rights of deported migrants. following this inquiry, the ombudsman made recommendations to frontex for the fundamental rights of migrants to be respected (recourse). the european ombudsman continued his work on behalf of migrants in 2015, as his office launched a strategic initiative on migration and asylum integration funds. similarly, the fight against revolving doors appears to have failed with the recruitment of barroso at goldman sachs. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to commend the quality of the work of the european ombudsman. its work for greater transparency is an essential factor for the trust and credibility of the european administration. in a climate of mistrust of the institutions, it is therefore important to emphasise the effectiveness of these operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which contains a number of points with which i disagree. to name a few: the smoke in the face of transparency when the commission only reveals what it wants, notably in the ttip, the help for migrants, the hypocrisy in relation to whistleblowers who are paid while the most famous of them, julian assange and edward snowden, have not been protected in europe, etc. i refuse to vote for a bill that legitimizes activities that are contrary to our national interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the activities of the european ombudsman. i would like to start by recalling a few figures. the european ombudsman has a budget of eur 10 346 105. what was the result? in 2015, it helped 26.7% fewer citizens than in 2014. these so-called successes, in particular the push for more transparency by the commission in the ttip negotiations, remain very relative; the same is true for the commission's relations with tobacco industry lobbyists, since the commission always refuses detailed information on their joint meetings. the european ombudsman may indeed seem to be full of goodwill, since he opposes the practice of 'revolving doors', i.e. the fact that some eu experts, lawyers or elites move from the public to the private and then from the private to the public without any control. this did not prevent josé manuel barroso from quietly offering himself a golden retirement at goldman sachs. finally, who does the european ombudsman claim to be defending? the citizens of europe? no, its main priority is to enable migrants to bring actions against states when they consider that their fundamental rights have been violated.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report covers the european ombudsman's work in 2015. the mandate of the european ombudsman is described in article 228 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which allows his office to receive complaints concerning instances of maladministration in the activities of the european institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. considering that the european ombudsman has a key role in the activities of the european institutions and that the work of the current holder of the post, mrs emily o'reilly, is welcomed, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. in 2015, the european ombudsman provided assistance to 17 033 europeans. however, there are some shortcomings in the commission's transparency system, the revolving door system which allows staff in the directorates-general to move successively from the institutions to the private sector (lawyers' offices, etc.). finally, we do not agree with the justification for aid to migrants.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the report promotes whistleblowers, who are too often exposed to professional and even criminal reprisals (point n). but the most famous whistleblowers, snowden and assange, have not been protected in europe, which makes the good intentions shown about them quite hypocritical.
in writing. ‒ the commission has not made the effort i expected in terms of transparency, since the information it wants to disclose is carefully selected, as we see in the area of tobacco or emissions from the automotive sector. the weaknesses of the report are manifested in the unacceptable aid it offers to migrants, the fight against revolving doors, which has been rendered impotent by mr barroso's entry into goldman sachs, and the theoretical protection afforded to whistleblowers. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr notis marias, on the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the european ombudsman is a fully-fledged institution that helps to link citizens, businesses and associations who are in difficulty in the face of maladministration by the european institutions. this approach was reinforced in 2015, thanks to the ombudsman's efforts in the use and promotion of social networks. the main investigations carried out in 2015 concern transparency issues, institutional issues and the commission's policy as guardian of the treaties. this vote is an opportunity to welcome the european ombudsman's efforts to increase the transparency of the european institutions, as he helps to improve the image of the european union among citizens. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the central role of the european ombudsman in helping to strengthen the links between citizens and the european institutions. this text shows the ombudsman's important role and his adaptation to new challenges, since the use and promotion of social networks are at the heart of his work in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, when it comes to transparency, the commission gives only what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector).
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. there is a lot of talk about transparency, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether it is in the area of ttip, tobacco or emissions in the automotive sector. the immigration aspects of the report justify a vote against. similarly, the fight against 'revolving doors' appears to have failed with the recruitment of barroso at goldman sachs. the report also promotes whistleblowers, who are too often exposed to professional and even criminal reprisals. but the most famous whistleblowers, snowden and assange, have not been protected in europe, which makes the good intentions shown about them quite hypocritical.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which contains a number of points with which i disagree. to name a few: the smoke in the face of transparency when the commission only reveals what it wants, especially in the ttip, the help for migrants, the hypocrisy in relation to whistleblowers who are paid while the most famous of them, julian assange and edward snowden, have not been protected in europe, etc. i refuse to vote for a bill that legitimizes activities that are contrary to our national interests.
in writing. ‒ since her appointment, the european ombudsman has been tracking democratic failings in the european union, within the limits of her role. last year, it responded to a large number of citizens' petitions and launched its own investigations into the lack of transparency in the institutions, in particular the informal body of the eurogroup, the ecb and public health agencies, where lobbying is raging to allow gmos and other pesticides. this report supports his proposals. i regret that he does not go further, especially in view of the recent news of the slippers, like mr barroso, the former commissioner who has moved to goldman sachs. however, the report welcomes the fact that these efforts have borne fruit, with the commission publishing many documents on ttip and thus promoting transparency. in practice, however, it is a question of going to a 'reading room' to consult hundreds of pages of documents which are not up to date, without a pen or a portable device, and to which the citizens still have no access! i therefore prefer to abstain, while welcoming certain proposals in this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission is only giving what it wants in terms of transparency, whether it is in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector). moreover, aid to migrants is of course problematic in itself. similarly, the fight against 'revolving doors' appears to have failed with the recruitment of barroso at goldman sachs. finally, the report promotes whistleblowers, who are too often exposed to professional and even criminal reprisals, but the most well-known, snowden and assange, have not been protected in europe, which discredits the good intentions about them. i therefore voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report presents the european ombudsman's remarks on 2015. there are many shortcomings in terms of transparency, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the field of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector). as for the assistance to migrants opened by the ombudsman, it justifies a vote against. similarly, the fight against revolving doors appears to have failed with the recruitment of barroso at goldman sachs. the report also promotes whistleblowers, who are too often exposed to professional and even criminal reprisals. but the most famous whistleblowers, snowden and assange, have not been protected in europe, which makes the good intentions shown about them quite hypocritical. finally, the report intends to use petitions to encourage the commission to go further in infringement procedures, by half-heartedly reproaching it for not always initiating such procedures, in particular under the 'eu pilot' procedures. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ with this report, we have a big problem with transparency, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector). the point on aid to migrants is not acceptable. similarly, the fight against revolving doors appears to have failed with the recruitment of barroso at goldman sachs. the report also promotes whistleblowers, who are too often exposed to professional and even criminal retaliation (point n). but the most famous whistleblowers, snowden and assange, have not been protected in europe, which makes the good intentions shown about them quite hypocritical. finally, the report intends to use petitions to encourage the commission to go further in infringement procedures, by blaming it half-heartedly for not always initiating such procedures, in particular under the 'eu pilot' procedures (point e, paragraphs 17 and 18). this is not acceptable either. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the european ombudsman, established in 2005 by the maastricht treaty, has dealt with nearly 50 000 complaints from european citizens in the 20 years since its inception. its mission is to investigate cases of maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union. the text welcomes the work done by the ombudsman and encourages him to continue his work to bring more transparency to the functioning of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman, whose task is to investigate cases of 'maladministration' in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, in the event of complaints from citizens, businesses or associations. the european ombudsman not only ensures that rights are respected, but also serves the general interest by helping the union's institutions to make public policy more effective in serving european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which takes stock of the european ombudsman's activities in 2015. the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, opened 278 inquiries based on complaints in 2015. it should be recalled that the ombudsman's task is to investigate complaints relating to instances of maladministration in the activities of the european institutions. it also has the power to initiate investigations. i therefore supported this resolution which underlines the crucial role of the european ombudsman in ensuring that procedural and ethical rules are respected within the european institutions, and thus avoiding conflicts of interest or maladministration. the european ombudsman has a key role to play in ensuring that fundamental rights and the rule of law are respected in the work of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ a lot of transparency issues, since the commission only gives what it wants, whether in the area of ttip, tobacco or emis (emissions in the automotive sector). as for aid to migrants, it is in itself a good reason to vote against it. similarly, the fight against shoeshine seems to have failed with the recruitment of barroso at goldman sachs. the report also promotes whistleblowers, who are too often exposed to professional and even criminal reprisals (point n). but the most famous whistleblowers, snowden and assange, have not been protected in europe, which makes the good intentions shown about them quite hypocritical. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ last april, as socialists, we welcomed the presentation by the european commission of an action plan on vat, a necessary first step. the report adopted today in plenary allows us to go further. it should be recalled that crossborder vat fraud represents an annual loss of €50 billion for france. in total, more than €170 billion is lost every year, when governments need this money to invest, innovate and create jobs. the future vat system must be based on the destination principle: it must be paid where goods and services are consumed. i am pleased that all the s&d requests have been taken into account in this report: the unanimity required to revise the vat system is the major difficulty, which is why i think it is important that the council listens to the european parliament. finally, in parallel with this reform, i welcome the announcement by mr moscovici of a specific proposal to align vat rates on digital books and online presses with those on paper media.
in writing. ‒ the commission announced in april a number of initiatives to combat vat fraud. the current system dates from 1993 and was intended to be transitional, but is not adapted to the digital age, creates numerous additional costs, especially for smes and cross-border transactions, and encourages fraud. to remedy this, the commission proposes the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin, short-term measures against fraud, more freedom for states to set rates and specific measures for electronic commerce. the report mainly endorses the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin in favour of that of the country of destination. this is the measure most contested by the professionals. in practice, the supplier of goods or services will collect vat from his customer and, if he resides abroad, by applying the foreign rate. the main risk is that the system will quickly become unmanageable, as firms selling to exporters will have to juggle the 89 rates in force in the union. the commission could use this as an argument to impose its ultimate solution, namely the harmonization of rates, more effectively in the future. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the vat issue is important to consider, as it generated almost €1 trillion in 2014, or around 7% of european gdp. to date, nothing has been done to prevent the fraud, which amounts to a considerable amount. the reduction of distortions of competition is therefore necessary to try to stop these fraudulent practices. the consolidation of the system is a priority and must be accompanied by new mechanisms. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report starts from an obvious observation, the need to fight fraud, to arrive at a complex and unfinished project. it confirms the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin for that of the country of destination. in practice, the supplier of goods or services will collect vat from his customer and, if he resides abroad, by applying the foreign rate. the situation could quickly become unmanageable and give the commission ammunition to carry out its project, which is the harmonization of rates. however, there are significant positive aspects, including a reduction in the administrative burden for smes. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which has some positive elements, unfortunately counterbalanced by other more negative points. the current vat system, which dates back to 1993, is no longer adapted to the realities of today's world, especially in the face of the challenges posed by the digital age and the administrative and financial burdens borne by smes. according to the commission, this mismatch would represent €170 billion in annual shortfalls and almost €50 billion in fraud. however, the solutions proposed by the commission and, even worse, the econ report on this subject, completely miss the mark of an updating of the system for the benefit of enterprises. the principle of taxation in the country of origin being abandoned in favour of the country of destination is rejected by the professionals. we know that behind this lies a real strategy of shock, with the commission seeking to create a cacophony in order to better impose, in the long run, its system of 'harmonisation of rates' and thus create a 'european vat', which would deprive the member states of a significant part of their tax revenues (50% for the french budget).
in writing. ‒ this report aims to combat vat fraud, estimated at €50 billion. to remedy this, the european commission presented a proposal last april that includes the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin, more freedom for member states to set rates and specific measures for e-commerce. however, the report is wary of the effectiveness of these proposals, considering that they rely on the ability of national governments to coordinate better. it is therefore called for the generalization of self-liquidation for transactions between professionals. this will place the burden of payment on the last link in the chain, making the system even more vulnerable to fraud. moreover, with the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin, our exporters will have to constantly juggle with the 89 vat rates in force in the union, thus giving the european commission an additional argument to impose on the states a harmonisation of rates. i have, however, abstained on this report, which seeks to provide concrete answers to combat tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the union has no power in taxation except for indirect taxation: vat and excise duties (alcohol, tobacco, oil). part of vat revenue is an own resource of the union, representing €17.667 billion of the european budget, or 12.27% of the total revenue of the union. we need a european vat framework to prevent member states from changing the vat rate to bring down the cost of goods or services and thus create unfair competition. that is why we have the vat directive, which sets a minimum standard rate of 15%. however, we must go further and create a genuine, definitive vat system which will offer more convergence while leaving flexibility for member states to set their rates. the commission will also be able to use the european system to combat vat fraud more effectively. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is based on the european commission's communication of 7 april 2016 on the vat action plan. in its action plan, the commission announced that it would present a legislative proposal for a definitive vat system. the current eu vat system has been in force since 1993, but was designed as a transitional arrangement, not to become definitive. i had concentrated on the question of reduced rates and the list of activities which could benefit from these reduced rates. the existence of such schemes can sometimes help to maintain economic and structural activity in rural areas, such as those of equestrian centres. i hope that, even though there is a need to simplify the european vat system and to fight against fraud, this reduced rate system will remain flexible and effective. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the subject 'towards a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud'. the report proposes a number of ideas to simplify the vat system and make it less susceptible to fraud, which now amounts to €170 million a year. we cannot move towards a system of vat on goods and services in the country of origin, because it causes too many distortions of competition, we must simplify and make the vat system more secure by strengthening cooperation between member states.
in writing. - i abstained on that report. the current european vat system dates from 1993 and was aimed at taxation in the country of origin: it is not well adapted to the digital age, it creates many additional costs and the lack of cooperation between tax authorities encourages fraud. the report is based on some of the commission's proposals, such as the widespread use of self-liquidation. we have chosen a neutral position: while we are sceptical about abandoning the principle of taxation in the country of origin, administrative simplification, the fight against fraud and adaptation to the digital economy seem to us to be desirable measures.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the report endorses the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin for that of the country of destination. this is the measure most contested by the professionals. in practice, the supplier of goods or services will collect vat from his customer and, if he resides abroad, by applying the foreign rate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to define a fair and robust vat system by 2017 to fight fraud effectively. to do this, the member states must simplify their national tax systems so that we can eventually achieve tax harmonisation at european level and thus put an end to vat disparities between member states. the proper functioning of the single market and the competitiveness of our businesses are at stake.
in writing. ‒ the current system needed to be redesigned as it was unsuited to modernity and the digital age. however, although i share the desire to combat crossborder vat fraud and to promote administrative simplification, there is a risk that a new system will be created which will be difficult for exporting companies to manage, given the large number of rates in force in the union. this could lead the commission to take advantage of the situation to impose its views, i.e. the harmonisation of rates. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr werner langen, on a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud. the report, which takes up the commission's vat action plan, advocates simplifying the current vat system, particularly in view of the exponential number of rates applicable within the eu. this situation creates a great deal of legal uncertainty for businesses and is a barrier to cross-border trade. the report provides for the establishment of a common list of goods subject to a reduced rate of vat and for the principle of taxation in the member state of final destination of goods to be based on the principle of the country of origin. i support this initiative which addresses some of the concerns of smes by reducing administrative barriers. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to finally put in place a definitive vat system. the new system provided for in this text will be simplified and the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services is much more efficient, easier to implement and better able to combat fraud than the current principle of the country of origin.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. it is true that it is trying to combat vat fraud, but it seems to be preparing to unify its rates.
in writing. ‒ since 1993, taxation of trade in goods and services between member states has been governed by an arrangement, then envisaged as transitional . this system, which is now difficult to describe as 'provisional' since it has been in force for 23 years, is proving to be very complex as vat rates differ from one state to another, with significantly unequal levels for the same products. the commission announced in april 2016 that it intended to establish a definitive vat scheme, aimed at harmonising existing arrangements and rates. the level will then be set freely by the national authorities, provided that it respects a minimum rate to avoid unfair competition. i therefore supported this report, which proposes a simplification of the existing rules and provides for the principle of taxation in the country where the property is used. this will, on the one hand, make it easier for companies involved in international trade to read the data and, on the other hand, remove the uncertainties created by the system, which make it more vulnerable to fraud.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report entitled 'towards a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud'. the current system is no longer adapted to the digital age, it creates many additional costs, especially for smes and cross-border transactions, and it encourages fraud due to insufficient cooperation between tax authorities. the commission puts forward the figure of 170 billion in lost earnings per year and about 50 billion in fraud. the report acknowledges the need to combat crossborder vat fraud. the same applies to administrative simplification, particularly for smes. the report also endorses the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin for that of the country of destination. this is the measure most contested by the professionals. in practice, the supplier of goods or services will collect vat from his customer and, if he resides abroad, by applying the foreign rate. the main risk is that it will lead to an unmanageable system.
in writing. ‒ this report starts from an obvious observation, the need to fight fraud, to arrive at a complex and unfinished project. it confirms the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin for that of the country of destination. in practice, the supplier of goods or services will collect vat from his customer and, if he resides abroad, by applying the foreign rate. the situation could quickly become unmanageable and give the commission ammunition to carry out its project, which is the harmonization of rates. however, there are significant positive aspects, including a reduction in the administrative burden for smes. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the vat action plan published by the european commission last april, which aims to reform the vat system introduced in 1993. vat is a major source of revenue for the european budget, which is why it is necessary to fight against vat fraud. this report proposes several measures to create a simple, efficient vat environment that is adapted to current challenges and facilitates cross-border transactions. reform of the vat system is an important issue for the improvement of the european single market. i am voting in favour of this report because it is balanced in the proposed responses to fraud.
in writing. ‒ the vat system, which was introduced in 1993, was a first step, a transitional system. fragmented, complex and costly, it needs to be reformed to enable the european single market to offer businesses a simple vat environment. the commission will launch a reform in 2017 on the subject (vat/smes, e-commerce, administrative cooperation and eurofisc). the aim is to achieve a harmonised european vat system that facilitates trade and ensures fair competition. the langen report prepares parliament's position on this future reform. the self-liquidation mechanism was the focus of the negotiations. some countries (czech republic, austria) are very much in favour of the general use of this system, as they believe it would reduce vat fraud - which is higher in these countries. as socialists and as french people, we are formally opposed to this, since it would only shift the problem to the neighbouring member states. it is a non-cooperative solution for europe. finally, all the red lines and requests of the social democrats were taken into account, in particular the financial services which must be subject to vat and the requirement of convergence of vat rates. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ since 1993, the vat system in force in the european union has been designed as a transitional system. the 'taxation of trade between member states' must be replaced by a definitive system based on the principle of taxation of supplies of goods and services in the member state of origin. the council shall adopt appropriate directives with a view to completing the common system of vat and, in particular, to progressively restricting or abolishing derogations from that system. with the aim of 'creating a single vat area in the union, which is a pillar for a thorough internal market'. this report follows that logic. it is designed to reinforce this unfair tax system. it also proposes to 'limit the exceptions' to the normal rate of vat, which would be tantamount to restricting the exemption for basic necessities. i am voting against this profoundly unfair text.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented a communication announcing several initiatives to combat vat fraud. the current system dates from 1993 and was intended to be transitional, with taxation in the country of origin as the end-result. it is no longer adapted to the digital age. it creates many additional costs, especially for smes and cross-border transactions, and it encourages fraud due to insufficient cooperation between tax authorities. to remedy this, the commission presented a proposal based on four main points: the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin, short-term measures against fraud, more flexibility for states in setting rates and specific measures for electronic commerce. the report therefore acknowledges the need to combat crossborder vat fraud. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a step in the right direction. the report mainly endorses the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin in favour of that of the country of destination. this is the measure most contested by the professionals. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the fight against vat fraud is a major challenge. the report on the objectives and some proposals for the fight against vat fraud, the necessary adaptation to the digital economy and the reduction of the administrative burden, especially for smes, will be followed up. the report does, however, make some poorly evaluated proposals, such as the generalization of self-liquidation for transactions between professionals. this puts the burden of payment on the last link, making the system vulnerable to fraud and bankruptcy. the report mainly endorses the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin in favour of that of the country of destination. this is the measure most contested by the professionals. the main risk is that the system will quickly become unmanageable (currently 89 rates in the union). the commission could use this as an argument to impose its ultimate solution, namely the harmonization of rates, more effectively in the future. it would probably be over unanimously. that's why we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report acknowledges the need to combat crossborder vat fraud, including carousels, which is something everyone agrees on. the same applies to administrative simplification, particularly for smes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a step in the right direction. it proposes, in particular, as an alternative solution, the generalization of self-liquidation for transactions between professionals. this puts the burden of payment on the last link, making the system vulnerable to fraud and bankruptcy. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is the european parliament's response to the vat action plan presented by the commission on 7 april 2016. the plan envisages a legislative proposal by 2017 for a definitive vat system based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services rather than in the country of origin, which is impossible to implement due to numerous problems of distortion of competition and fraud. the report welcomes the commission's commitment to implementing a simple, fair, robust, efficient and less vulnerable to fraud vat system, which will also be an asset for the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ value added tax fraud and non-collection of levies represent an estimated loss of €168 billion per year in the european union. the current system dates from 1993 and required reform to meet the challenges of cross-border trade and e-commerce. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the introduction of a definitive vat system based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services. this new definitive vat system is simpler, fairer, more efficient and therefore less vulnerable to fraud.
in writing. ‒ vat fraud represents €170 billion a year in lost revenue for member states. it is therefore necessary to adopt tools to combat this fraud, in a context of budgetary difficulties. an ambitious vat reform, as proposed in this own-initiative report, is therefore urgently needed. all the s&d group's demands were heard. financial services must be subject to vat and convergence of rates between member states must be established. the commission must also initiate a study on the cost of non-convergence. finally, a review of the list of reduced rates must be put in place, taking into account social, health, environmental, nutritional, cultural and gender equality aspects. while the initial report emphasized the principle of the self-liquidation mechanism, which shifts fraud to neighbouring countries, i welcome the fact that this principle has been reduced in the report we voted on. it is now up to the commission and the council to take up this matter, in an area where unanimity is needed.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented a communication last april announcing several initiatives to combat vat fraud. vat is a key resource for the member states (50% of tax revenue in the french budget) and an own resource for the union (about 10% of the budget). since 1970, vat has been the subject of a great many texts at european level. to remedy this, the commission presented a proposal based on four main points: the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin, short-term measures against fraud, more freedom for the states to set rates and specific measures for electronic commerce. the report endorses the abandonment of the principle of taxation in the country of origin for that of the country of destination. this is the measure most contested by the professionals. in practice, the supplier of goods or services will collect vat from his customer and, if he resides abroad, by applying the foreign rate. the main risk is that the system will quickly become unmanageable, as firms selling to exporters will have to juggle the 89 rates in force in the union. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text, which combines the very laudable intentions of protecting wildlife, as already called for by the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), with clear infringements of the sovereignty of states. it repeatedly called for an increase in eu financial resources or for the creation of international funds for this purpose. the european union does not have to take such decisions, which are the responsibility of the states, all of whom are already parties to the cites convention. while it is important to support local initiatives in the countries concerned to find alternative income to that generated by trafficking, no interference should be accepted, as several african countries have pointed out. in addition, criminal law recommendations are problematic as they encroach on a major area of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides for strict measures to combat the growing trade in illegal wildlife products, which is destroying the planet's ecosystem. the crimes committed by traffickers have gone unpunished for too long. these are the products of highly organised and often international criminal organisations. it is now up to the member states and the commission to implement these measures as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this text, which has very good intentions in terms of protecting wild animals, but which undermines the sovereignty of states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the european union action plan against wildlife trafficking. the text has some laudable intentions, including support for initiatives to promote the development of alternative livelihoods for communities living in close proximity to wildlife. i welcome the work of my colleagues in the envi committee, who have succeeded in including in the report the need for these initiatives to be carried out in consultation with the communities concerned, not in total interference. it is also positive to recognize the united nations convention against corruption as the appropriate framework for this fight. however, i find it damaging that once again the european institutions are using legitimate struggles to strengthen their power and influence over the member states. the european budget is to be strengthened, the commission is to monitor the actions of the member states, and the union is to have illegitimate diplomatic power by concluding bilateral or multilateral agreements at international level. this is all the more regrettable given that cooperation between sovereign nations has already proven its worth, notably in the context of the cites convention.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to put in place a european-wide action plan to combat wildlife trafficking effectively. many of the proposals are certainly in the right direction, such as a ban on the trade in ivory and rhino horn in europe, better prevention and consultation with the local communities concerned, and a strong fight against corruption. however, the text also calls for an increase in national and european budgets, with the introduction of a trust fund for the preservation of protected areas and a strengthening of the european development fund. the report also calls on the european union to strengthen its position on the international scene by concluding bilateral and multilateral agreements that directly threaten the sovereignty of the member states. finally, it is called for the establishment of minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences. we are firmly opposed to any embryonic european criminal law. for all these reasons, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the bearder report for an action plan against wildlife trafficking, which includes a series of measures to be taken by the eu institutions and member states to strengthen synergies, with the aim of better combating wildlife trafficking across the eu and globally. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, for example, leads to, among other things, the trafficking of marine wildlife and thus poses a threat to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources. it's endangering the health of the oceans. this comprehensive action plan will strengthen the european union's role as a global actor through specific measures and a stronger and more unified participation in international fora.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out parliament's position on the european union action plan against wildlife trafficking proposed by the commission. this trade is a very lucrative financial boon for criminal organisations, amounting to €22 billion a year. africa, asia, latin america and the european union are all places of transit or origin for wildlife trafficking. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives. however, i voted against an amendment on hunting trophies, which was an amalgamation with hunting practices that are authorised and properly regulated in the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union action plan against wildlife trafficking. the action plan, published on 26 february 2016 by the european commission, includes a number of measures that need to be implemented quickly in order to effectively combat wildlife trafficking, one of the most lucrative organised crimes, which terrorist groups use to finance their activities. efficient cooperation between the public and private sectors and strengthened traceability mechanisms are needed.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights three objectives which i believe are fundamental in the fight against wildlife trafficking: prevention, compliance with existing rules and cooperation. this is the first step needed to establish an effective fight against criminal practices, and that is why i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be very balanced. i simply regret the mention of trophy hunting. this is a very special practice, already governed by strict and specific rules. because of this specificity, it has no place in this report, even though illegal trophy hunting practices must be combated. a coordinated fight against wildlife trafficking is urgently needed. the european union must take its responsibilities in this fight, because europe is one of the places of origin, transit and destination of illicit products from this trade. to this end, it is important to take greater account of biodiversity and sustainable development in trade.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. it does indeed contain positive aspects: the fight against corruption, the trafficking of ivory, the development of alternative means of subsistence. however, it also calls for the creation of financial programmes or intervention plans and constitutes a clear infringement of the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ abstention: this text combines the very laudable intentions of protecting wildlife, which are already included in the cites convention, with clear infringements of the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ the protection of wildlife is a noble objective, but it must not be accompanied by any infringement of the sovereignty of states. the report's recommendations on the increase or creation of funds are supposed to be the sole responsibility of the member states, which is too often circumvented. support for local initiatives must be the only intervention allowed, as some african countries have repeatedly pointed out. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague catherine bearder on the european action plan against wildlife trafficking. wildlife trafficking is considered one of the most lucrative criminal activities and is a threat to biodiversity. it also involves foreign policy considerations relating to the rule of law, stability and good governance. however, i have expressed my opposition to the provisions on trophy hunting, as trophy hunting is regulated and is not the cause of the massive decline of endangered species. however, i support this report, which was adopted by a large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the fight against wildlife trafficking is very important to me. we must coordinate our trade, development and foreign policies with this objective in mind. in particular, the report calls for measures to prevent wildlife trafficking and to address its root causes.
in writing. ‒ good intentions are mixed with violations of the sovereignty of states. the union is using the issue of wildlife trafficking to replace states in international action on the subject. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the european union action plan against wildlife trafficking. this text combines the very laudable intentions of protecting wildlife, already contained in the cites convention, with clear infringements of the sovereignty of states. it repeatedly called for an increase in the union's financial resources or for the creation of international funds for this purpose. the european union does not have to take such decisions, which are the responsibility of the states, all of which are already parties to cites. while it is important to support local initiatives in the countries concerned to find alternative income to that generated by trafficking, no interference should be accepted, as several african countries have pointed out. in addition, the recommendations on criminal law are problematic in that they encroach on a major area of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on this text, which has very good intentions in terms of protecting wild animals, but would undermine the sovereignty of states. there is a desire to create international funds, to increase the union's budget and the text contains recommendations on criminal law, all measures which would encroach on the competence of the states.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is an international organised crime with an estimated annual value of around €20 billion per year. in addition, wildlife trafficking has major negative impacts on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and species conservation. the report welcomes the commission's action plan against wildlife trafficking. it also called on the commission and the member states to further improve the protection of habitats of targeted species and of areas classified as 'vulnerable marine ecosystems', and also proposed to introduce more severe and dissuasive penalties for illicit trafficking. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this text combines the very laudable intentions of protecting wildlife, which are already included in the cites convention, with clear infringements of the sovereignty of states. it repeatedly called for an increase in the union's financial resources or for the creation of specific international funds. however, the union does not have to take such decisions, which are the responsibility of the states, all of which are already parties to cites. while it is important to support local initiatives in the countries concerned to find alternative income to that generated by trafficking, no interference should be accepted, as several african countries have pointed out. in addition, the recommendations on criminal law are problematic in that they encroach on a major area of national sovereignty. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this text combines the very laudable intentions of protecting wildlife, as already called for by the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), with clear infringements of the sovereignty of states. it repeatedly called for an increase in eu financial resources or for the creation of international funds for this purpose. the european union does not have to take such decisions, which are the responsibility of the states, all of whom are parties to the cites convention. while it is important to support local initiatives in the countries concerned to find alternative income to that generated by trafficking, no interference should be accepted, as several african countries have pointed out. in addition, the recommendations on criminal law are problematic in that they encroach on a major area of national sovereignty. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ this text combines the very laudable intentions of protecting wildlife, as already called for by the cites convention, with clear infringements of the sovereignty of states. it repeatedly called for an increase in eu financial resources or for the creation of international funds for this purpose. the european union does not have to take such decisions, which are the responsibility of the states, all of whom are already parties to the cites convention. while it is important to support local initiatives in the countries concerned to find alternative income to that generated by trafficking, no interference should be accepted, as several african countries have pointed out. in addition, the recommendations on criminal law are problematic in that they encroach on a major area of national sovereignty. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which proposes to ban trade in ivory and rhino horn and calls for stronger common sanctions against wildlife trafficking. this trafficking represents some €20 billion a year and is becoming one of the main forms of transnational organised crime. we must therefore equip ourselves with new tools to combat it better.
in writing. wildlife trafficking is a multi-billion euro industry that supports criminal groups around the world. as the main actor in the fight against trafficking, but also as the hub and target of this activity, the european union had to come up with an action plan worthy of the name. this is done with this report. the discussions were particularly rich and constructive, with wide support for the subject, and the amendments relating to hunting trophies and the definition of the financial and human resources needed to implement the plan were successfully incorporated. i voted in favour of this report, in continuity with my position on this issue which i defend in the envi committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this action plan against wildlife trafficking. with profits of €8-20 billion a year, wildlife trafficking is the fourth most lucrative illicit activity after drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trade. large emblematic animals such as the rhinoceros, the elephant and the great apes are affected, which has an impact on the survival of these species. i therefore support the european commission's action plan to combat such trafficking and also call for a total and immediate ban on the trade in ivory and rhino horn in europe.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is one of the most lucrative forms of organised crime and is often used to finance the activities of terrorist groups. it also damages the balance of ecosystems and endangers many animal species. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report, which provides for common sanctions against wildlife trafficking and also aims to ban the trade in ivory altogether.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for common policies and sanctions against wildlife trafficking. the text calls, in particular, for a ban on the trade, export and re-export of ivory and rhino horn. wildlife trafficking is the fourth largest criminal activity and generates around €20 billion a year. it is urgent that the european union establishes common rules to define the offences and sanctions related to this criminal activity. as such, trophy hunting, which is one of the causes of the extinction of certain wild species, must be very strictly controlled and sanctioned. wildlife trafficking is often linked to other forms of organised crime, such as money laundering. member states must therefore use all available means and instruments, including cooperation with the financial sector, to combat this important criminal activity effectively. finally, i supported this text because it calls for greater cooperation between the european institutions and the member states and online sales sites to counter the illegal sale of wildlife products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the action plan against wildlife trafficking. it is not widely reported, yet trafficking in human beings is the fourth most lucrative illicit activity after drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking. the parliament's own-initiative report supports an action plan presented by the european commission in february 2016. as a member of the committee on fisheries, i am convinced that it is by fighting this type of trafficking that we will be able to curb illegal, undocumented and undeclared fishing. because it is often through controls on land that actions at sea can be influenced. in particular, for species such as eel, which are highly vulnerable to poaching, control should be achieved by implementing traceability mechanisms, thus avoiding that legal fishermen pay the price of a bad reputation of the sector caused by frequent illegal acts.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in endangered wildlife and their products violates the sovereignty of states and endangers entire ecosystems. it constitutes a substantial shortfall to the detriment of the populations concerned, particularly in the 'developing' countries. it is often linked to other international organised crime, including arms and drug trafficking. it is therefore welcome that the european union is increasingly taking account of the seriousness of these crimes. the report calls for deterrent criminal sanctions and for the human, financial and expertise resources needed to ensure that they are effectively applied. i regret, however, that the text encourages the use of development aid for this purpose. it is imperative that separate funds be used, for example from fines imposed. i also regret that the question of biopiracy is not mentioned even once. while the fight against poaching for the luxury market is paramount, the trafficking of genetic data from wildlife and their unscrupulous beneficiaries should not be forgotten. i have nevertheless voted in favour of this report, which is moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the digital economy and transport, because it has been so distracted from its objective. the development of digital platforms in transport needs to be regulated, and i can only regret that this report contains elements that aim to limit the ability of states to regulate platforms like uber. this is contrary to the message sent in favour of a modernised regulatory framework, in particular to defend workers' rights. i strongly support innovations that are clearly part of the collaborative economy, fundamentally based on sharing, such as blablacar in the transport sector. but it's better to say it: uber and its clones do not belong in the collaborative economy! those who claim it are wrong! it is more a digital platform economy for which regulation is essential. my responsibility as a socialist is to fight against social and fiscal dumping in order to guarantee workers' rights, to combat the precariousness of journeys, to ensure the training of drivers and to promote fair competition for the benefit of small businesses against large ones.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which aims to improve the performance of small transport companies, in particular because of the importance of the internet in passing orders for delivery or passenger transport. the challenges for small transport companies are quite well defined. the problems of social dumping and the distribution of profits between freight and passenger transport ordering platforms are discussed. but once again, the europeanist ideology blinds the recommendations. the main one, aimed at enabling the harmonious and competitive development of small transport enterprises, would be the integration of the transport market by standardising legislation. in other words, once again, a levelling down in the countries of western and northern europe... here, as in most europeanist reports, certain guidelines are constantly reiterated, in particular a standardization of the legal framework (except for wage, social and tax burdens), a marked liberalization and a rejection of subsidies in general, and cosmetic considerations: the reduction of pollution and the fight against social dumping which are the logical and immediate consequence of the two previous points, but which serve only as a political display.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text: it is necessary to take into account the challenges faced by transport companies. with often limited resources, they have to cope with a growing demand for mobility under the constraints of limited infrastructure and environmental requirements. in fact, action is needed to complete the single european transport area, taking into account the specificities of the different actors in the sector.
in writing. ‒ while the interest of the subject is real, the report is undermined by an ideological and europeanist point of view; the report, which is a compromise between the standardization of the legal framework, excessive liberalization and the rejection of subsidies, all of which is barely masked by pseudo-environmental considerations, would certainly drag the countries of western and northern europe down. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, this report is yet another example of the european institutions' ability to recognise the consequences of a situation they have created but to propose solutions that will only repeat this destructive pattern. the text of mr riquet thus provides good evidence of the challenges facing small transport undertakings: social dumping or the distribution of profits between transport ordering platforms, which are often carried out to the detriment of small undertakings or self-employed persons for the benefit of large undertakings. however, the remedies proposed are lethal since the solution still sought is to harmonise national legislation; as usual, their reasoning is: is the eu dysfunctional? so we need more eu! the uniformity of legislation, particularly in the fields of safety and training, would in reality lead to a bottom-up approach, preventing national industries from being competitive, in the name of the sacrosanct fight against distortion of competition. because i believe in the know-how and potential of french transport companies, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to contribute to the development and performance of small transport enterprises. instead of tackling the real threats facing the sector, such as social dumping in the european union, exacerbated by the posting of workers directive, or the problem of unequal profit sharing with the ordering platforms, this report takes advantage of this subject to pour the usual propaganda of the european union. the commission is asked to harmonise national legal frameworks and to complete the liberalisation of these activities, in particular by rejecting all national subsidies. the first measure will promote social dumping with a downward social harmonization of social protection systems while the second will weaken the enterprises supported through economic patriotism. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report contains several proposals to turn many challenges into opportunities for small transport enterprises. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, including the implementation of the new rules on the internal market, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. i believe that these measures are effective means of promoting innovation, protecting consumers and fair competition, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on new opportunities for small transport companies. the report makes credible recommendations to ensure that small companies, sources of innovation in the transport sector, do not succumb to the anti-competitive practices of large groups. in this context, it seems to me particularly important that the european union should encourage coordination between local authorities and smes to improve the quality of transport services.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this text is to improve the performance of small transport undertakings. social dumping and the problem of the distribution of profits between freight and passenger transport ordering platforms are the main difficulties faced by these platforms. the solutions proposed to these real difficulties are, however, unsatisfactory, since the text proposes the establishment of a single market involving, in particular, a standardisation of the legal framework and a limitation of public aid. we cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the interest of the subject is real but the report is tainted by its europeanist, utopian and falsely ecosocial apprehension.
in writing. ‒ this report contains a number of very accurate remarks on the problem of social dumping or profit sharing, but the whole is tarnished by the europeanist ideology in its recommendations aimed at integrating the transport market through the uniformity of legislation. despite the real interest of the subject, the rest of the guidelines call for more assertive liberalisation and a false ecological and social interest, ultimately a leveling down. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague dominique riquet on new opportunities for small transport companies. the aim of this text is to establish a favourable regulatory framework and to put an end to the legislative disparities that hinder the development of new transport enterprises, in particular those arising from the collaborative economy. i support this text which seeks to highlight the consequences of these disparities, which lead to serious distortions, such as dumping, which must be combated urgently. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains a number of proposals to create opportunities for small transport companies: accelerating efforts to complete the single european transport area, ending national disparities, encouraging convergence between the traditional and the platform economies in order to promote innovation, protect consumers and promote fair competition, or organising better coordination between local authorities and small transport companies to improve urban mobility in a sustainable development perspective.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is perverted by integrationist ideology, which makes it unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'new opportunities for small transport enterprises'. the challenges for small transport companies are quite well defined. the problem of social dumping, the problem of the distribution of profits between platforms for ordering goods or passengers (to the benefit of platforms and to the detriment of small enterprises, in particular sole proprietorships, family businesses or self-employed enterprises, which, unlike large enterprises, cannot fight for a better distribution of the value added for their own benefit) are highlighted. unfortunately, once again, the europeanist ideology often blinds the recommendations: the main one would be the integration of the transport market, by standardizing legislation, especially in terms of safety and training requirements, requirements which are seen as a means of distorting competition. in short, once again, a levelling down in the countries of western and northern europe. the damage is that the interest in the subject is real, but the report is tainted by its europeanist, utopian and falsely ecosocial apprehension.
in writing. ‒ while the interest of the subject is real, the report is undermined by an ideological and europeanist point of view; the report, which is a compromise between the standardization of the legal framework, excessive liberalization and the rejection of subsidies, all of which is barely masked by pseudo-environmental considerations, would certainly drag the countries of western and northern europe down. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report follows a commission communication on the collaborative economy and deals with the recent development of platforms in the transport sector (e.g. uber, blablacar, heetch...). the text highlights the uncertainties about the legal status of these platforms without, however, settling the issue. the opinions of the cjeu on the various cases between uber and several member states will be decisive in deciding on the legal nature of the platforms. it also stresses the risks associated with the emergence of monopolies in the sector and calls for the promotion of healthy competition between platforms for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. however, this text does not provide the necessary guarantees for social protection and workers' rights, guarantees to which the socialists and democrats are particularly attached. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the logic of strengthening the european single market in the transport sector and therefore of the breakdown of the public service and liberalisation. it thus supports the continuing efforts to complete the single european transport area. it invites member states to 'assess the need to adapt their labour law to the digital age, taking into account the characteristics of the collaborative economy models and labour law in each member state'. which amounts to supporting companies like uber, which i oppose. i am voting against this text and supporting public transport services.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to provide the commission with a framework for action to improve the performance of small transport companies, in particular because of the importance of the internet in passing orders for delivery or passenger transport. the challenges faced by small transport enterprises are quite well defined. the problem of social dumping and the distribution of profits between freight and passenger transport ordering platforms is thus well targeted. however, the report is criticized on several points: the uniformity of the legal framework, the marked liberalization and a falsely environmentalist approach. that is why i voted against this report, bearing in mind the real need to support our small transport companies and the real measures needed to safeguard them.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to set out a framework for the commission's intervention to improve the performance of small transport companies, in particular because of the importance of the internet in passing orders for delivery or passenger transport. unfortunately, once again, the europeanist ideology often blinds recommendations: the main one aimed at enabling the harmonious and competitive development of small transport companies (particularly important for the last kilometres) would be the integration of the transport market, by standardizing legislation, especially in terms of safety requirements. the leitmotif for increased liberalisation makes it impossible to support this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is excessively europeanist and falsely ecosocial. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on new opportunities for small transport companies, including collaborative business models. the text calls on the member states to put an end to their over-regulation of transport, which prevents small businesses from accessing the market. it denounces social dumping in the transport sector at the intra-european level and makes numerous proposals to support the activities of smes in the transport sector.
in writing. this report aims to create new opportunities for smes involved in transport. it is proposed to involve smes in future projects for 'soft' and low-polluting transport in cities, to combat social dumping or to improve the status of self-employed. however, beyond this benevolent rhetoric, the report also shows a desire to liberalise the european transport market, which is detrimental to the public service. this is demonstrated, for example, by the encouragement of member states to take the necessary measures to combat the anticompetitive practices of large integrated groups in order to combat discrimination and restrictions on market access. i do not think that is what the european citizens need, which is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ small transport enterprises play an important role in the functioning of mobility in europe and are strong job creators. however, they face many difficulties in accessing and developing the market. i voted for this report which encourages the development of an appropriate regulatory framework, the completion of the single european transport area and the establishment of fairer competition, to enable these companies to unleash their potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by dominique riquet on the digital economy and transport. first of all, it is characterised by a major contradiction: while it claims to lay the foundations for a modernised regulatory framework adapted to transport platforms, it at the same time calls on the member states not to over-regulate this sector. it also fails to address the issues raised by the rise of these platforms in terms of worker protection. the report does mention the risks of social dumping caused by the inadequacies of the existing regulation, but it fails to mention the risks of the career paths of drivers using the platforms becoming precarious and impoverished in the absence of adequate social protection. the report also avoids the question of driver training. finally, it does not describe these platforms as genuine transport companies, whereas they simply offer a service of transport for private individuals via a digital tool. therefore, this report on digital platforms in the transport sector is far from meeting the challenges posed by the upheavals in the sector.
in writing. ‒ digital technology offers real opportunities in a context where the use of technological innovations is endless. however, these must not be accompanied by social regressions. digital platforms in the transport sector pose serious problems, notably the lack of social protection for those working in them. strong regulation is therefore essential to combat forms of social dumping in order to guarantee workers' rights, combat the precariousness of journeys, provide training for drivers and promote fair competition for the benefit of small businesses. while the report highlights uncertainties about the legal status of the platforms, it does not settle this issue and relies on member states' compliance with the services directive. i regret that the amendments stressing the risk of career precariousness and impoverishment of selfemployed drivers who have little or no social protection have been rejected. if we are to oppose strongly uber's attempts to use eu law to prevent its activity from being regulated by member states, we must value platforms that use the collaborative economy, such as blablacar.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to provide the commission with a framework for action to improve the performance of small transport companies, in particular because of the importance of the internet in passing orders for delivery or passenger transport. the challenges for small transport companies are defined quite precisely and the problem of social dumping, the problem of the distribution of profits between the platforms of orders for the transport of goods or passengers, is particularly pointed out. unfortunately, once again, the europeanist ideology often blinds recommendations: the main one aimed at enabling the harmonious and competitive development of small transport companies would be the integration of the transport market by standardizing legislation, especially in terms of safety requirements, training requirements, requirements which are seen as a means of distorting competition; the standardisation of the legal framework (except for wage, social security and taxation); increased liberalization and a general rejection of subsidies; the commission's proposal is based on the following two points: the reduction of pollution and the fight against social dumping, which are the logical and immediate consequence of the two previous points, but which are only used for political advertising. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ located between russia and poland, belarus is a major transit hub between the european union and russia. the country has been ruled by alexander lukashenko since 1994. he ended the economic liberalisation reforms initiated by his predecessor, shukhkevich, and established a strong presidential power, thanks to the referendums of 1994 and 1996. tensions with the eu began in 1998. belarus' application for membership of the council of europe was suspended in 1996 because of the death penalty. the eu has imposed economic sanctions and increasing visa bans since 2002 and since 2008 it has directly funded ngos and opposition media outlets to belarus, such as the polish belsat channel. after the events in ukraine in 2014, the us and the eu turned their relationship with belarus around, bringing the country into the eastern partnership, lifting sanctions against cosmetic advances in the country's democratization. i abstained on this report, which approves the lifting of sanctions against belarus but contains many interferences in belarusian political and economic affairs.
in writing. ‒ in view of the shortcomings identified by independent international observers in the 2015 presidential and 2016 parliamentary elections, it is necessary to call on the belarusian authorities to guarantee respect for democratic rights, human rights and fundamental freedoms. in fact, a comprehensive electoral reform, as part of a wider process of democratisation, must be initiated. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which, while approving the lifting of sanctions against belarus, unfortunately contains many interferences in the political and economic affairs of this european country.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report, which, while approving the lifting of sanctions against belarus, continues to be the purest form of euro-federalist interference. the belarusian authorities are being blackmailed into accepting participation in the eastern partnership parliamentary assembly, but only if belarus decides to distance itself from its russian partner. in addition to criticism of the sovereign state's diplomatic choices, the political groups are also giving lessons in economic policy, even though belarus has the highest hdi among the member states of the commonwealth of independent states. finally, since the list would not be complete without this, the resolution also criticises the belarusian institutional system by denying in particular the efforts, although recognised by the osce, to achieve political openness.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the political situation in belarus. it should be noted that progress in promoting democratic values remains insufficient: new political prisoners, harassment of the democratic opposition and the use of the death penalty are commonplace in belarus. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in belarus. the promotion of good electoral practices and the fight against human rights abuses are among the cornerstones of european external action. in these respects, belarus' efforts are not sufficient. we call, with even greater urgency, for the european union to use all its influence to persuade the belarusian authorities to participate in the international moratorium on the death penalty.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. belarus, which has been ruled by alexander lukashenko since 1994, has been subject to successive restrictions by the european union, notably on the economic front in 2002. in addition, the eu directly funds ngos and media opposed to the government. liberalisations of the political system have enabled the country to integrate into the eastern partnership and led to a relative warming of relations with the united states and the european union in 2014. this report contains additional requirements, including a european right of inspection on the construction of the plant and unlimited access to foreign media and ngos.
in writing. ‒ abstention on the joint resolution: the joint motion has a positive aspect, in that it acts and supports the process of re-establishing dialogue and lifting sanctions. but on the other hand it cannot be supported because it is a political and geopolitical bidding war both with regard to the belarusian regime and its relationship with russia.
in writing. ‒ beyond a positive outlook in favour of lifting sanctions against belarus, this report promotes too much interference in belarus' internal affairs to win my support. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague, mr bogdan zdrojewski, on the situation in belarus. the adoption of this text was an opportunity to express our concern about the deterioration of the political situation in belarus. parliament condemned the harassment and imprisonment of political opponents and, with the help of the european external action service, supported all pro-democracy initiatives. i am glad that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on belarus, which takes stock of the last parliamentary elections in september. we are concerned about certain shortcomings noted by international observers, and call for the resumption of work on comprehensive electoral reform and the rehabilitation of released political prisoners.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which, while approving the lifting of sanctions against belarus, unfortunately contains many interferences in the political and economic affairs of that country.
in writing. ‒ belarus just held elections in september. for the first time in 12 years, members of the opposition are represented in parliament. as the osce points out, "clear efforts have been made" but it is also true that "a number of systemic deficiencies persist, resulting in a legal framework restrictive of political rights and fundamental freedoms". the resolution expresses concern at the lack of respect for human rights, including the death penalty, which is still applied. but above all, it calls for support for 'radio and television stations broadcasting in belarusian from abroad'. radio stations with the task of promoting the values on which the union is founded and its objectives as an international actor. again, media independence is a relative principle and interference a key word. this parliament's position is in opposition to that of the commission, which has just lifted sanctions against that country in order to be able to re-establish dialogue. this house is taking a vindictive and conditional approach which is unfit to do what it wants to do: promote human rights. under these circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion has a positive aspect, in that it acts and supports the process of re-establishing dialogue and lifting sanctions. however, it cannot be supported because it is a political and geopolitical bidding war both with regard to the belarusian regime and its relationship with russia. i therefore abstained on that report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on belarus, which uses inappropriate terms in relation to russia, the only consequence of which is the sterile escalation of reciprocal sanctions. there is an urgent need to re-establish dialogue with russia, the largest country in the world, in order to put an end to the sanctions that european producers and farmers suffer from every day and to coordinate the vital fight against the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the actions of belarus which go against democratic principles, fundamental freedoms and human rights. currently, belarus is increasing the number of political arrests, especially of opposition figures. moreover, it remains the only european country still to apply the death penalty. the construction of the country's first nuclear power plant, whose compliance with nuclear and environmental safety standards has yet to be proven, is also a cause for concern.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which considers that belarus' efforts to respect and defend democratic values are insufficient. belarus committed itself in early 2016 to improving the political and human rights situation. this commitment was not respected. the belarusian regime continues to imprison political opponents, stifle political dissent and use the death penalty. this resolution urges the establishment of a moratorium on the use of the death penalty in belarus. the text also calls for the establishment of international supervision of the construction of the first belarusian nuclear power plant, just 50 kilometres from vilnius. the project must be carried out in accordance with international standards for nuclear safety and environmental protection.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, finally, we have this debate in the european parliament's plenary on the most important foreign policy issue for our continent, namely africa and its access to energy, because the figures speak for themselves: out of more than 1 billion africans, 700 million have no access to electricity. by 2030, if nothing is done, this number could rise to 1.3 billion. in other words, it is the future most populous continent on the planet that will have the least access to electricity and light. can we accept this in a decent way for a continent that is only ten kilometres away from us and with which we share so much, both historically and culturally? i don't think so, we don't think so, but it is a fact. to this, of course, must be added the demographic prospect of a continent that will have nearly 2 billion inhabitants by 2050 and will suffer from climate change in its full force, with all that this implies in terms of food security, access to energy or tensions around the use of agricultural land. that is why, with about 40 colleagues, first through the committee on regional development chaired by linda mcavan, we wanted to have this debate in plenary this afternoon in the european parliament. i thank them for supporting me in this endeavor. our message is simple: let's go, it's time to help developing countries, and especially africa, to expand their access to energy. the stakes are enormous: education, economic development, but also migration, stability, security in a continent plagued by terrorism. this is what's behind the access to energy. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a lot is happening now because the african continent has understood the enormous opportunities that lie ahead. morocco has developed the world's largest solar thermal power plant in ouarzazate, which will provide clean energy to more than 1 million moroccans by 2018. another example is kenya, where only a third of the population has access to electricity, and which has developed the lake turkana wind farm. it is expected to generate 20 percent of kenya's energy by summer 2017. more generally, the hydraulic basins of central africa, the rift valley fault and the sunshine enjoyed by the continent in general are sources of hydropower, geothermal or solar energy that are unmatched in the rest of the world. at present, however, only a tiny fraction of this potential is exploited (only 7% of hydropower capacity and less than 1% of geothermal capacity) and photovoltaic initiatives are still too embryonic. we can feel the first signs of a continent which could become a renewable energy pool if it is properly supported, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. for this, the continent needs our unconditional support and yours. yet, despite the urgency and consensus on the subject, one gets the feeling that the machine is having a hard time getting started. of the €10 billion pledged last year at cop21 - which i was the rapporteur for the european parliament - to the african renewable energy agency, only half has been provided by the most developed countries. however, there is no shortage of goodwill in the european commission, the european parliament, the member states and civil society. i am thinking in particular of the enormous work done by jean-louis borloo with his energy for africa initiative. now is the time to change course and implement this great marshall plan for energy access in africa, as called for by jean-louis borloo and his foundation. in this, i fully join his fight. that is the reason for our parliamentary action today: to help turn undeniable political will into concrete action. the cop22, which just ended last week in marrakech, carried a similar message. africa is the crucial issue for the next decades. so after the decisions, the action! with this great marshall plan for energy access, we have the opportunity to implement this great and beautiful action for the development of our neighbour. in this context, i welcome the launch by the european commission of the external investment facility. it seems to me absolutely necessary that such an instrument should be dedicated to energy access and be ready as soon as possible, in particular before the next eu-africa summit in autumn 2017, as proposed by the european commission. the marshall plan for the electrification of africa, the instruments for external investment, support for the african renewable energy agency: that is how, commissioner, we can, in a very concrete way, help the development of energy access on a continent which so badly needs it. i am waiting for you to give us the perspectives and the answers so that we can be in concrete action, commissioner. this is how we will put europe back at the centre of the international stage, given the many ramifications that depend on african development. in short, commissioner, let us go ahead and waste no more time!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first tell you about my experience. when i was head of the energy sector in alsace - it was my first job as a civil servant - i wanted to do something for africa. i didn't have the support of the regional council at the time, and i had obtained a million francs. with this money, in sanaga-maritime, in cameroon, we did rural electrification and, from this rural electrification, we started farms, a small carpentry shop and we also put around the infrastructure that goes with development, that is, water and health. electricity is therefore an indispensable means of development. it is a necessary condition, but it is not a sufficient condition. i will come back to that. i would like to begin by emphasizing the full support of our group for this initiative. 3.5 billion at union level is good. a billion for france is also good. all of this for targets that remain modest for 2020 because i'm not going to talk about 2030 with 300 gigawatts. let's do it with these 10 gigawatts first, which is quite possible. one gigawatt is about a billion. let me give you a methodology. for 20 years i have been working on africa's development in a private capacity, apart from my other professional activities in the regional institute for cooperation in the alsace region and the european institute for cooperation. first, we need to build on local african initiatives. i think that the initiative of youba sokona with the african development bank, the afd, kfw (kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau), is really what needs to be done, namely that we have development agencies at home and we have potential in africa. we have to work together. we must not create new structures. i like mr borloo very much, but i disagree with my colleague on this. secondly, we must have a multilateral approach and not just a european one. we have to be aware that it is very good to bring together the united arab emirates, the united states, china and russia. all available funding should be used with the coherence of african initiatives at local level. thirdly, and this is where i am addressing myself to you, commissioner, it is very important what i am about to say and i do not know whether you will hear it: we must avoid levers! leverage, it won't work! you have to invest where the people are and not necessarily where the money is and the profitability is, if you want to do rural development and if you really want to develop africa. where it's profitable, it'll do it all by itself anyway. so we need to have a marshall plan approach. the plan started with loans and ended with more than 90% donations. we need to have an approach where we are literally investing new money in this rural electrification and rural development. i would like to say that even colonial france was able to invest without the prospect of return on investment when it developed, for example, the entire sewerage system in douala or when it created the railway that connected the south to the north of cameroon. we were able to take a long-term view. fourthly, electricity is a necessary but not sufficient condition. electricity is a means, like a road. just because you have electricity or you have a road, it doesn't create wealth. it is a necessary but not sufficient condition. we must really build development programmes around electricity. i would like to see these programmes given priority in the countries most in need. i am thinking of course of the sub-saharan great lakes region, where there is still some stability, in cameroon, in the central african republic and then in the democratic republic of congo, with all its potential. i am also thinking of the maghreb, egypt and algeria. but i come back to what we need, which is a genuine marshall plan of donations by monetary creation, like france financed its power stations after the war. it did so by creating money. it was the treasury's advances to électricité de france that made this possible. it was money creation, pure money creation. we must do all this from a development perspective around industry if we are to be able to really put rural and local development first.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european commission is committed to the goal of assisting developing countries in providing energy access for 500 million people by 2030. this is of course a target that cannot be achieved by the eu funds alone; the contribution of all global actors will be required. today we estimate that the projects supported with eu funds under the current multiannual financial framework by 2020 will contribute to provide on-grid and off-grid access to energy for up to 40 million people, generate 6.5 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity and save 15 million tonnes of co2 per year in our developing country partners. i would like to thank the parliament for its full support and i am pleased to see that our visions of this subject are aligned.
president of the committee on budgets. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of instability in europe and the world, it is comforting that the european institutions can put aside their differences and give the union a budget within the time limits set by the treaties. contrary to the legend that every second year the conciliation failed, i am glad that in 2016, for the 2017 budget, as in 2015, for the 2016 budget, we reached an agreement. i am glad that this year, after many hours of negotiations, parliament and the council have taken a step towards each other to send two clear messages. the first message is that the priority remains, more than ever, to tackle the problem of migration by strengthening control of our external borders, while allowing the dignified reception of new arrivals and the humanely sustainable return of migrants who cannot claim refugee status. we should not be under any illusions, there is still a lot to be done in this area and our budget is extremely constrained in this area, but the progress of the budgetary authority for 2017 is undoubtedly in the right direction. the second message is that europe is investing in its youth: an additional €500 million will be made available for the youth employment initiative. in fact, one billion, if we add the additional appropriations from the european social fund. in addition, an additional 200 million was earmarked for future programmes such as support for smes, the interconnection of infrastructure in europe, erasmus+ for students and apprentices - a flagship programme on which the commission had already focused in its draft budget - and research, with the horizon 2020 programme. despite all the criticisms that can be made of our budget, and there are many, this 2017 edition sends a message of confidence. confidence in the ability of our institutions to work together and confidence in our youth, who remain our most promising investment for the future. i thank our rapporteurs, jens geier and indrek tarand, who have been able to shed light on our debates and our final arbitrations. i have only one regret to express. this is the last budget of vice-president georgieva, who has left her mark, her expertise, her energy, her drive and her charisma. madam vice-president, accept our gratitude and allow me, on behalf of the committee on budgets, to express our warmest wishes for the success of your work as president of the world bank. we're going to need you, ma'am.
mr president, as the fictitious rapporteur for the other sections, on behalf of my socialist and democratic group, i am pleased that we have reached results which are in line with the realities of the moment, particularly on the question of supporting the means of the european parliament to remain a place of democracy, on the question of adjustments which are linked to security and on the question of measures which help to reduce the ecological footprint linked to our parliamentary activity. i'm glad you did. but as a member of the committee on budgets, i would also like to make a few comments on the 2017 budget as a whole. i am pleased to see real support for the cosme programme, as has been said by several speakers, for smes, for horizon 2020, which sanctifies european basic research, and of course for the youth employment initiative. i am also pleased to note that, for the first time, almost all the flexibility instruments have been used. but i am also concerned about the overall insufficiency of the european budget, which cannot meet the immense needs facing the european union, particularly in terms of investment. the european union would have done without the 1.8 billion euros less linked to exchange rates after brexit. i am clearly calling for a budgetary reorganization, in which the european parliament would finally have the power to vote on revenue, and not just expenditure, and in half the time with the council. politics is the last refuge of the adventurer, wolinski said. it is high time that the member states were the adventurers. the european parliament will support them.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this has been a very engaged session and i am very grateful for the comments that have been made. let me respond to some of the points that honourable members have raised. first, there are indeed grounds for concern about the level of payments in the budget for 2017 and, more specifically, about the level of payments for cohesion policy. it is unfortunate but true that the new programmes – the programmes under the current multiannual financial framework – have taken some time to start, with the result that in many of them we are registering delays in implementation. we have been working very hard with member states to encourage the availability of authorising bodies that can then certify expenditures so we can speed up implementation. that would, of course, have a positive impact on payments. so it is definitely not because we do not have the capacity to provide these funds. it is objectively because of the slower pace of the implementation of the programmes. we are working with the council – as minister lesay would confirm – to find ways to speed up that process. secondly, a number of speakers made comments about the new ways in which we tried to fund new priorities, more specifically the turkey facility trust funds. one of the comments very clearly stated ‘no taxation without representation’. there has to be a role for parliament. on the commission side we agree, and we are thinking of ways in which we can make sure that, if there is a need to mobilise extra budgetary resources, it is done in a fair way so that parliament can have a say without creating processes that may slow down implementation. that is a fair point, and the three institutions will have to reflect on it and address it. third, i am fully mindful of the fact that there are demands for money that we have not been able to meet within the parameters of this budget. it is therefore up to us in the commission to follow up implementation very carefully. should there be a reason for any programme to be slower than anticipated, we would do what we have done in previous years: relocate funds to a higher priority. in other words, what we have done with the budget up to now in this financial framework, gearing up for more agility and more flexibility, we will continue in 2017. finally, i would like to express my deepest gratitude to the slovak presidency for – indeed as many of you have recognised – being fair, engaged and determined, and to the budget negotiators, the chair of the committee on budgets, the two rapporteurs and each and every one of you who stayed in the room until four o’clock in the morning so we could have a budget that, as you recognised, is a sound budget. it is a good budget and now we have to implement it. well, thank you. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this very useful exchange of views. it has shown that we are united in our commitment to making progress for the benefit of europe and its citizens. this debate closes long and sometimes difficult discussions between the european parliament and the council over several months. however, they have shown that our respective institutions share many objectives and that our positions are not that far apart. this has been my impression all the time, and that is why we have been confident that we would be able to reach a deal. it proved not to be too easy but we were happy to do it in the first round, and here we are with the compromise. as i said, the negotiations on the 2017 budget took place under complex circumstances. in spite of this, we worked together in a constructive manner and we were able to reconcile our positions on how to finance the different priorities and actions of the union. i am convinced that the agreement reached on the 2017 budget is a good and balanced result, allowing the union to act and react to the various needs. i thank everybody once again. thank you very much for your attention, and i wish you success during tomorrow’s vote.
chairman of the budg committee. mr president, madam vice-president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we have just had shows that while our 2017 budget is a step in the right direction, there is still a small step where europe needs big steps, particularly in terms of investment, growth, employment and the control of migration flows. we must not forget that other crises are in sight, other emergencies will justify torturing the budget to try to get it to do what it is often unable to do. look at how many budgetary bulges have multiplied, how many satellites have come to densify the european budgetary galaxy. juncker fund for strategic investments, budgetary facility for turkey, trust funds here, trusts funds there, and tomorrow juncker fund for africa or european defence fund. all these peripheral entities are beyond parliamentary control. the creativity of the european commission will not be able to hide the poverty of the european budget for long and these budgetary practices are a danger for the union. they endanger the european union first of all because the proliferation of budgetary satellites makes it more difficult to read a european budget that is already too distant from the citizens. let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that society has the right to hold every public official accountable for his administration, this is a fundamental democratic requirement. without budgetary clarity, we risk being disconnected. europe is weakened when it is unable to speak directly to the european citizens. finally, such a budgetary distortion tends to accredit illusions and, unfortunately, disappointments. a union without a budget, committed on all fronts, risks showing its impotence. the urgent need is to agree on the competences that the member states are prepared to transfer to the union, because they no longer have the capacity, in the age of globalisation, to assume them. the budget must then be appropriated accordingly, to reflect our ambition to make europe a world power. beyond the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, which will be the subject of a forthcoming debate, it is already time to look beyond 2020. before concluding, i would like to thank the slovak presidency, the ecofin presidency and the general affairs council for their brilliant and benevolent efficiency.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr council representative, allow me to begin by joining my colleagues in paying tribute to vice-president georgieva, to whom i wish a happy journey, although i am sure, i hope at any rate, that she is not quite part of it. to talk about the revision, i must return to the 2017 budget for a moment, as my co-rapporteur did. these negotiations were rough, which still leaves me puzzled as we share most of the priorities: employment, growth and especially youth. we have held our ground and, despite the late hour, we have reached an acceptable agreement, in particular thanks to the €500 million for youth employment and the additional €200 million for growth and employment. as you said, mr council representative, this is fresh money for once and not redeployment, that is to say, without cutting existing programmes but by mobilising unused budgetary margins which are essential to meet the challenges of the present. the house also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but if we want to combat youth unemployment, we will not just have an extension for the 2017 programme, but we must be able to provide the necessary means so that the programme is effective in the years to come. the same applies to our economic stimulus instruments. in short, the financial framework of the european union for 2014-2020, adopted in 2013, needs an ambitious revision and i welcome both the commission and the slovak presidency's efforts to recognise this, and i thank you, mr council representative, for agreeing to open the discussion with a view to a compromise where no one will be 100% satisfied, neither parliament nor the council. the arrival of refugees, the commitments of cop 21, the agricultural crisis, underinvestment, internal security, defence, in short, all these upheavals require it. however, we must be aware that everything we have achieved in the 2017 budget could be lost if we accept the council's proposal on the revision of the financial framework of the european union as it stands today. i know that the council has not yet reached a unanimous position, as my colleague mr olbrycht has said, and that the discussions are continuing, but i must insist. at the moment, the matter is not settled, but i am sure that our discussions will be fruitful. parliament could not accept any annex that would reduce the multiannual financial framework and further constrain annual budgets, when we see all the additional challenges that have emerged since 2013. on the contrary, this revision must be an opportunity to increase flexibility - as you said, and i think we all agree here - so that the european budget can adapt to a changing world. to strengthen existing instruments such as the flexibility instrument, we propose €750 million per year. for the emergency aid reserve, we are asking for 400 million euros a year. you see that we are even lower than the commission's proposal. the european commission also proposed that unused commitment appropriations be re-instated in the union budget. we propose that the decommitments of at least two headings be reinstated in the budget: heading 3 on security of citizenship and heading 4 'europe in the world' to feed the overall margin of commitments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ceilings on the overall margin for payments should be raised. the accounting for special instruments outside the payment ceilings remains a matter of debate and will be a major issue at the end of the period, it should be borne in mind that the current financial framework is both smaller than the previous one and yet more demanding. it must therefore be used to the full. if we are talking today about the revision of the current financial framework for 2014-2020, tomorrow we will be discussing the next financial perspective, and i would like to recall a reality that is at the origin of many of the difficulties we are facing: 90% of the union's budget is based on direct contributions from the member states. this system is inherently perverse, since it encourages each state to reduce its contribution to the union budget as much as possible in order to save the maximum for its national budget. the general european interest is thus being swept aside by the system itself in favour of national egoisms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this situation is not inevitable, solutions exist. these are own resources. as in the past, own resources must once again be given a prominent place in the european budget. we expect a strong proposal from the high-level group, of course, and we would be glad, if not delighted, if the council would also send a signal in this direction. thank you and good discussion in the days ahead!
mr president, during this debate our rapporteurs, mrs thomas and mr olbrycht, have said the main points and all our colleagues who have spoken have done so. i would like to make a specific appeal to young people and to youth employment. i note that young people who have benefited from erasmus grants, that these students are better protected against the risk of unemployment than others. i also note that young people who have been trained in the context of apprenticeships in germany, austria and the netherlands do not experience unemployment. i would therefore like to see more mobility for apprentices, but this requires more substantial appropriations for erasmus. i would therefore like to make a specific appeal on christmas eve for the erasmus envelope to be reassessed. it is 20% in the 2017 budget, which we will vote on tomorrow, but i think we need to go further, madam vice-president, mr minister.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we express uncompromising criticism of the policies of the european union, we are nevertheless in favour of solidarity between european nations, especially in the face of natural disasters. the europe of nations we wish to see is a europe which protects the weakest of our fellow citizens. and it's in the face of tragedy that she can express herself best. so yes, the eu solidarity fund must be made more accessible, more effective, particularly to help our italian friends in the face of the terrible earthquakes that have struck the town of amatrice. but if we really want to help italy, every euro spent on reconstruction must now be excluded from the deficit calculation in the stability pact and all the european funds allocated to this region must be reprogrammed for the reconstruction of the disaster areas. finally, the commission must ensure that the solidarity fund is exclusively devoted to europeans facing natural disasters, and not to policies to welcome migrants, as some seem to want. i say yes to european solidarity with the italians, not to waste for the migrants.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a debate which is absolutely crucial. it may seem technical since we are going to talk about the possible modification of a code of conduct and conflicts of interest. in reality, as you know, this debate is taking place in a very specific context for europe, at a time when european citizens are doubting, sometimes with good reason, that europe is defending the general interest, the common good, and not necessarily private interests or particular interests. so we have to be very careful about this. the question of transparency, control and the functioning of our institutions is, in the present state of the european question, of major importance. transparency is one of the pillars of democracy and more than ever we need to be exemplary in this respect. the situation has worsened recently. a number of debates, to use no strong words, have taken place, notably with the move of former commission president barroso to a private bank, goldman sachs, which had a very direct link with the financial crisis of 2008. of course, these factors must be taken into account. i sometimes wonder whether the commission is fully aware of this reality. when we asked commissioner moscovici, who was in your place recently, about this, he explained that there was no problem and that the code of conduct of the commission and the commissioners was perhaps among the best - i do not know if he did not even say "the best in the world"! to me, it's just a denial of reality; it's the coué method of saying that everything is fine. no, it's not all right! in order to change things, so that we can move towards more transparency and more control, two committees of this european parliament have unanimously approved, and i emphasize this, the two reports - the committee on budgetary control and the committee on legal affairs. this unanimity must also challenge the commission, since it shows how united the european parliament is in this effort to change rules which are currently not working. so, what's wrong? i will deal very briefly with two aspects, namely conflicts of interest and the code of conduct. let us first discuss conflicts of interest. at the moment when commissioners take office, at that stage, they are only required to declare what they themselves consider to be likely to create a conflict of interest. however, this concept is nowhere defined. so the first thing to do is to define what a conflict of interest is. we do so in this report, and we ask that the european parliament's legal affairs committee be able to check the financial statements and the assets in order to determine whether or not there is a conflict of interest. this is simply the application of the separation of powers. this is a major advance, and it must be implemented. we ask the same thing during the term of office, when there is a change in assets, financial interests or portfolio. that is the question of conflicts of interest and naturally this requirement must be extended to family interests as is the case during the mandate. the second question is the question of the code of ethics and the code of good conduct. at this stage, you, commissioner, and all your colleagues, have a duty of honesty and delicacy. it's not defined anywhere. define honesty and delicacy. ensure that the ethics committee, which is currently in charge of monitoring, is composed of independent experts and is completely free from pressure from private interests or the commission. i would add a third element. we ask you to ensure that during the three years following your term of office you do not have the opportunity to go to work in the private sector in sectors which you have had to deal with in your capacity as commissioner. commissioners are paid for this; it's not outrageous. you see, the changes we're asking for are not excessive. what is needed is simply an alignment of the commission's rules of operation with what is happening in all democracies around the world.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2011 is not sufficiently stringent as regards the control of commissioners' financial interests. this laxity has led to several scandals, the most famous of which concerns former competition commissioner neelie kroes, who was recently found to have run an offshore company during her tenure. i therefore support the durand report, which seeks to improve this control. i doubt, however, that any effectiveness is achieved. the council, the commission and the european parliament do not want too much scrutiny of the financial interests of the eurocrats. i would like to see the decision to appoint and then retain mr miguel arias cañete as energy commissioner, despite the conflicts of interest that have been discovered and denounced on several occasions. the european union has abandoned european values in favour of the worship of the golden calf. it is entirely dominated by lobbyists, financial powers and the lust for profit. it therefore covers up the actions of its officials, who are its worthy representatives. the fight against conflicts of interest presupposes the disappearance of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, you are basically saying to us: 'go around, there is nothing to see; there is no problem!' but once again, our debates are precisely about the conflicts of interest of the european commissioners. it's almost becoming a habit. last october we were talking about the kroes case and the bahamas leaks, before that it was mr barroso and goldman sachs and now it is mr oettinger and his thefts with a lobbyist close to moscow. this is a new conflict of interest which president juncker would like to 'sanction' by a promotion, in defiance of the opinion of this parliament. this is simply unacceptable! what we are asking is that this parliament should have a say, and in an even stronger way, not only at the time of the investiture of the commissioners, but also at repeated intervals during the term of office and, in particular, in the event of a change of portfolio. we want to be able to check for the absence of conflicts of interest, and we also want to be able to ensure that in the code of conduct as it will be revised, conflicts of interest are avoided after the end of the mandate of the commissioners. there is an urgent need to review our rules, because it is transparency and exemplary behaviour that will give the european project new meaning.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, to conclude, let me emphasise that the commission welcomes parliament’s input into the reflection on how the code of contact for commissioners can be improved, and will inform parliament about the follow—up it will give to the present reports. i, myself, i agree with all the speakers who have practically said that that the behaviour of politicians not only has to be impeccable, but also has to be perceived as impeccable.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, i will get straight to the point: since you have heard us, please report to the commission and its president that parliament is unanimous in calling for rules to be put in place that would simply make us grow together. the europe to which we are attached and which we want is a democratic europe under construction; it's evolving. it would grow, we would all grow and we would have a much stronger voice in civil society if we showed that transparency and the absence of conflicts of interest are indeed the main concerns of the commission and the european parliament. so let us make this europe grow, let us do it together, naturally, and not against each other. let us make sure, as france has done, for example, that we have an independent high authority. everyone benefits, and little by little, trust is restored. it is simple, it is democratic and we all stand to gain from it.
madam president, the president of the commission in brussels, jean-claude juncker, has just shocked a large part of humanity by paying tribute to fidel castro. he said: 'the world has lost a man who was a hero to many'. this tribute is shameful! it is an insult to the thousands of dead and the two million exiles who are castro's victims. jean-claude juncker has brought shame on europe by being president of the commission for two years in return for his role as the chief architect of tax evasion. now he's ashamed of his cruelty! castro was not a liberator, but a dictator. that is what jean-claude juncker should have said in tribute to his victims. the fact that such a leader can lead the european union says a lot about what the european union is: a europe of money and contempt, cut off from the aspirations of the peoples, and a hundred leagues from the europe of the nations that i wish for.
mr president, while a framework decision on combating racism has existed since 2008 and a commission was set up in 2016 to combat this scourge, hate speech, racism and homophobia are being expressed more and more freely in the public sphere. this trivialization is not acceptable. we must promote the values of the european union, whose motto 'unity in diversity' is not an abstraction. we do not want a closed-minded, inward-looking, uninquisitive, self-sufficient europe, a europe that is too small. so we must take concrete, clear and exemplary action against anyone who makes such speeches, whether he is a citizen, a head of state, a member of parliament, a european commissioner or a local elected official. for example, in france, where some elected municipal officials are censoring posters of homosexual couples in order to undermine good morals, it is clear that there is still a long way to go. i would like to remind you, however, that all forms of racism must be fought and that there is no hierarchy in racism. in fact, fighting all forms of racism is also a way of effectively fighting each of them. it's another way of saying that no one is more equal or more unequal than another.
in writing. like everyone else, i can only be outraged by provocations, racist, xenophobic, homophobic or intolerant words or actions. unfortunately, the commission and the council, like most of the governments of the member states, are blinded by a well-meaning ideology. for example, the accusation of racism is very popular on the left as in an uncertain right towards anyone who fights against communitarianism, uncontrolled immigration, multiculturalism, dilution of identity, the defense of french or european cultural heritage or the plundering of social security. professional anti-racists have used it, often inappropriately, only to discredit others or by deliberately forgetting to call racism what it should be (anti-white, anti-christian or anti-french racism, anti-semitism assumed by certain populations ...). this anti-racism is now being emptied of its substance by the beneficiaries of multiculturalism and social dumping. they use it above all as a moral guarantee to make people forget about the big political and financial affairs and the real problems and aspirations of the people.
in writing. your incantatory debate on the alleged rise of racism, xenophobia, homophobia, intolerance in europe is just another opportunity to try to blame the legitimate popular reaction. no one in europe is racist in the etymological sense: supporters of the domination of one race over another. some may be xenophobic, having become foreigners in their own country without ever having consented to it. but this feeling is common to all peoples who feel an excessive foreign presence. the truth is, you want to curb the rising discontent. you're multiplying the laws against liberty. only in france: the pleven law, which prohibits criticism of immigration; the gayssot law, which prohibits any criticism of official dogmas on contemporary history; the perben law, which prohibits the preference of the natural family to homosexual unions; the taubira law, which prohibits any relativisation of slavery, but only of european origin. your speech is filled with the usual hateful puns. contempt of the working classes who are resistant to globalism. calls for repression in the name of... tolerance! blame only the europeans. fortunately, your logorrhea has no bearing on reality.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam high representative, i have enjoyed your speech, but i think we will have to be more firm. president kabila is at the end of his second term and the congolese constitution has forbidden him from running for a third term. to maintain his power, he had already tried to amend the constitution in 2015, but changed his mind in the face of the legitimate mobilization of civil society against this institutional coup d'état. today, he is trying to impose his hold on power by repeatedly postponing the date of the elections. this is unacceptable and it is not by appointing an opposition prime minister that he will be able to legitimize his continuation, while the repression is getting stronger every day against opponents of the regime, peaceful demonstrations and journalists, at the cost of many human lives. arbitrary arrests have raised fears of a major political crisis. chaos is looming in a country already weakened by systemic instability. this is why the congolese government should be strongly called upon to release all political prisoners as a gesture of appeasement. europe must help the congolese people to enforce their constitution and prevent kabila from pursuing a policy of the fait accompli. we have means in our possession. we must activate article 96 of the cotonou agreement and adopt targeted sanctions, from visa freezes to the freezing of assets of those close to the government. europe has backed the national dialogue, which has been a sham. it is time to react and to put our hands on the table if we are to be consistent with the agreements which bind us to the democratic republic of congo.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, as i read the resolutions, i see a scenario repeating itself which is killing africa. a leader is no longer liked, so he has to go. a new one must take his place to serve us and serve himself. you may say, "what about the constitution?" yes, but it was not written and adopted by the congolese. kabila is certainly reprehensible, but who will tell the truth? who put kabila in office? who will show rwanda's role in this crisis? kagame is not condemned and kabila should be? who will talk about the millions of deaths for diamonds, rare earths and other minerals in this region for the interests of belgian, german and foreign corporations? will you finally admit that african problems are africans' business and that african nations have the right to non-interference for their stability. yes to inclusive transition; it takes time.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary committee recommended that parliament adopt its position at first reading by adopting the commission's proposal. the european regulation establishing the union customs code excludes the application of certain provisions to goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by moving between two union ports or airports without a stopover outside the union. the excluded provisions subject to the amendment concern the following obligations: to lodge an entry summary declaration; to notify the arrival of a seagoing vessel or aircraft; transport the goods to specified places and present them to the customs authorities at the place where they are unloaded or transhipped; the temporary deposit. there is currently no legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods that are unloaded or transhipped at the point where the goods are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it, which makes it more difficult for the customs authorities to monitor the goods. i voted in favour of this report, which therefore aims to fill a legal vacuum and to contribute to more efficient customs supervision.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods that are unloaded or transhipped when they are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it. the surveillance of goods is therefore much more complicated for the customs authorities. the proposal to amend the regulation aims to fill this legal vacuum and would make it possible to contribute to greater efficiency in customs supervision. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code, as regards goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. today we have no legal basis to require the presentation of goods that are unloaded or transhipped at the point where the goods are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it. customs authorities have a hard time keeping an eye on a shipment. the proposed amendment to the regulation would allow customs officers to work more efficiently.
in writing. ‒ as far as better control of the flow of goods entering the territory of the union is concerned, i am in full agreement with this kind of control. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ until now, the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the customs code excluded the application of certain provisions to goods which had temporarily left the customs territory of the union. therefore, there is no legal basis today requiring the presentation of unloaded goods at the place where they are re-introduced into the customs territory after temporarily leaving it. the purpose of this proposal to amend the regulation is to apply all these provisions, including to goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the european union. i voted in favour of this text, which will help to increase the efficiency of customs supervision, in particular to limit the import of counterfeit and narcotic products.
in writing. ‒ this codecision report follows the european commission's decision to amend article 136 of the customs union to address the concerns of the member states' customs authorities. under the current article 136 of the customs code, a person transporting goods is not legally obliged to submit the goods to the customs authorities, thus calling into question the principle of customs liability. i believe that this amendment to the customs code is intended to correct a legal loophole and does not change the text on the substance, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the union customs code, as regards goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. it was essential to fill the legal vacuum in the case where goods enter the union by sea or air but are then transported, in the same container, to a second port or airport in the union where they are unloaded. by amending article 136 of the union customs code, it will now be mandatory, under certain conditions, to present goods which have been imported into the customs union at the second point of entry.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code excludes the application of certain provisions to goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by moving between two union ports or airports without a stopover outside the european union. this proposal fills a legal vacuum and facilitates the task of customs control.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the proposal to amend the regulation aims to fill a legal vacuum and to contribute to more efficient customs supervision.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which fills a legal vacuum allowing customs to ensure better control of goods within the territory of the union and thus at its borders. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report amending article 136 of the eu customs code. the original drafting of the directive was problematic because a literal application of the text would have relieved operators of the need to present certain types of goods to customs, which poses serious security risks in the control of our customs borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to fill a legal gap and to contribute to more efficient customs supervision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes an amendment to the eu customs code, as regards goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the purpose of this adaptation of the customs code is to clarify the legal status of certain goods. the general framework for the regulation of the flow of goods in europe was contained in the regulation on the union customs code adopted in 2013, for which i had been rapporteur for the european parliament. the objective remains the same: the introduction of more effective controls on goods.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the proposal to amend the regulation is intended to fill a legal vacuum. this is the case for goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the european union while travelling between two ports or airports in the member states and which have not made a stopover outside the union. the amendment will make it possible to require the presentation of goods that are unloaded at the place where they are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it. this measure therefore makes for a somewhat more effective customs supervision, which we welcome.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary committee recommended that parliament adopt its position at first reading in order to adopt the commission's proposal. as a reminder, the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the eu customs code excludes the application of certain provisions to goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the eu by moving between two ports or airports in the union, without a stopover outside the eu. as a result, there is no legal basis today to require the presentation of goods that are unloaded or transhipped at the place where the goods are re-introduced into the eu's customs territory after temporarily leaving it. this makes it more difficult for the customs authorities to monitor the goods. the proposal to amend the regulation is therefore intended to fill this legal vacuum and to contribute to a somewhat more efficient customs supervision. we therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary committee recommended that parliament adopt its position at first reading by adopting the commission's proposal. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code excludes the application of certain provisions to goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by moving between two union ports or airports without a stopover outside the union. the excluded provisions subject to the amendment concern the obligations to lodge an entry summary declaration, to notify the arrival of a seagoing vessel or aircraft, to transport goods to specified places and to present them to the customs authorities at the place where they are unloaded or transhipped, and to temporary storage. as a result, there is no legal basis today to require the presentation of goods that are unloaded or transhipped at the place where the goods are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it. this makes it more difficult for the customs authorities to monitor the goods. the proposal to amend the regulation is therefore intended to fill this legal vacuum and to contribute to a somewhat more efficient customs supervision. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ there is currently no legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods that are unloaded or transhipped at the place where the goods are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it. this makes it more difficult for the customs authorities to monitor the goods. the proposal to amend the regulation is therefore intended to fill this legal vacuum and to contribute to a somewhat more efficient customs supervision. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the customs code of the european union. the aim is to rewrite certain provisions to remedy the legal loophole which existed and which exempted traders from presenting certain types of goods at customs. controls on these goods will now be more effective.
in writing. ‒ this text is the result of negotiations between the states. france is not winning, but it is a technical adjustment. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ the eu does not sufficiently protect its customs borders, which is why i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to amend the eu customs code to strengthen customs surveillance of goods when they enter the union through a port or airport. this regulation will allow a second check to be carried out when goods which have entered the eu for the first time are transferred to another eu entry point in order to carry out the necessary risk analyses. this strategy to combat crime provides a direction for the european union's economic world. it is important to support this type of initiative to bring coherence to both the internal market and our external trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the european commission's amendment of article 136 of the customs code of the european union. this amendment will improve the customs supervision of goods when they enter the union through a port or airport and are then transported to a second port in the union where they are unloaded. the aim is to clarify the legal status of these goods and to ensure proper customs supervision of goods moving within the european union.
in writing. ‒ the original regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code excludes the application of certain provisions to goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by moving between two union ports or airports without a stopover outside the union. the excluded provisions subject to the amendment concern the following obligations: to lodge an entry summary declaration; to notify the arrival of a seagoing vessel or aircraft; transport the goods to specified places and present them to the customs authorities at the place where they are unloaded or transhipped; the temporary deposit. as a result, there is no legal basis today to require the presentation of goods that are unloaded or transhipped at the place where the goods are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it. this makes it more difficult for the customs authorities to monitor the goods. the proposal to amend the regulation is therefore intended to fill this legal vacuum and to contribute to a somewhat more efficient customs supervision. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal for a regulation postponing by one year the date of application of regulation 1286/2014 on key information documents for insurance-based retail investment products (priips). regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 introduced a series of measures to strengthen investor protection in the financial services sector by improving the transparency of the retail investment market. it requires the originator of retail packaged and insurance-based investment products to produce a key information document, called a key information document (kid). that regulation empowers the esas to develop regulatory technical standards specifying the elements to be contained in the kid. on 30 june 2016, the commission approved the draft submitted by the esas by means of a delegated act which was also approved by the council. however, on 14 september 2016, the european parliament rejected the delegated act and requested the commission to review the provisions on multiple option priips, performance scenarios and notices indicating that a product may be difficult to understand. in order to avoid legal instability, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this regulation empowers the european supervisory authorities (esas) to develop regulatory technical standards specifying the elements that key information documents (kids) should contain. on 30 june 2016, the commission approved the draft submitted by the esas by means of a delegated act which was also approved by the council. i was opposed to that delegated act at the time; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information contained in the dic is not used for other purposes. that is why i have approved this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ regulation 1286/2014 introduced a series of measures to strengthen investor protection in the financial services sector, allowing for an improvement in the transparency of the retail investment market. it requires the originator of a retail packaged insurance-based investment product (priip) to produce a key information document, called a key information document (kid). the kids that inform investors are not clear enough, and moreover, often too optimistic. the proposal for a regulation to decide on technical standards specifying the information to be contained in kids. i will not oppose it, preferring legal stability for investors.
in writing. ‒ i am rather in favour of postponing the date of application of this regulation, which currently has many shortcomings, for example: kids no longer present past data but only future assumptions; these kids are relatively opaque as regards the performance of products and the way they are calculated; the risk to the investor is not sufficiently highlighted. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal for a regulation and this report, which call for the date of application to be postponed.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1286/2014 aims to strengthen investor protection in financial markets by improving the transparency of insurance-based retail packaged investment products (priips), in particular through the creation of a key information document, called a key information document (kid). although the idea is sound, the kid is criticized for being opaque and for not sufficiently warning investors of the risks of losses that may exceed the amount of capital invested. priip promoters are not required to present past performance in their kids, which leaves a lot of room for subjectivity in presenting future performance. the text calls for a delay of 12 months from the date of application of the regulation, which is scheduled for 1 january 2017, in order to allow sufficient time to re-enter certain information in the kid. although we are not against the regulation, we believe that its entry into force without the technical standards specifying the information to be contained in the kid would lead to legal instability. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report follows a proposal by the european commission to improve investor protection measures for the main investment products purchased by small investors. in this context, the european parliament considers that small investors should be better informed about the possible costs of investment products. i fully share the principle of preventing and defending the interests of small investors by introducing simple and clear rules and guidelines, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which seeks to postpone the date of application of the regulation on key information documents for insurance-based retail investment products. while i am in favour of the production of key information documents on financial products, i nevertheless consider that the proper application of a regulation requires that the relevant actors be given sufficient time for preparation. the detailed content of these information documents has only been established since 30 june 2016. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. it is therefore necessary to defer the date of application of this regulation to 1 january 2018.
in writing. - i voted for this report. regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 introduced a series of measures to strengthen investor protection. it requires the originator of a retail packaged insurance-based investment product (priip) to produce a key information document, called a key information document (kid). on 30 june 2016, the commission approved the draft by adopting a delegated act which was also approved by the council. instead of analysing past performance, the new key information documents are built around three assumptions (unfavourable, moderate, favourable). however, these three criteria are largely subjective and do not take into account past crises. however, in order to avoid legal instability, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the regulation introduces a series of measures to strengthen investor protection in the financial services sector by improving the transparency of the retail investment market.
in writing. ‒ as i voted in favour of rejecting the delegated act presented by the commission and as the entry into force of the regulation, without the technical standards specifying the information to be contained in the key information document, would lead to legal instability, i support this report. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which makes the regulation on insurance-based retail investment products applicable from 1 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because following the rejection by parliament last september of the delegated act specifying the information to be provided to investors, which we supported, it is necessary to delay the application of the priip regulation by one year in order to avoid legal instability.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the text validates the proposal to postpone by one year the date of entry into force of regulation 1286/2014 introducing a series of measures to strengthen investor protection in the financial services sector. these measures would improve the transparency of the retail investment market. since the current regulation does not have technical standards specifying the information to be contained in the key information document (kid), and the new kids are thus based on highly subjective elements and overly favourable assumptions, this regulation would therefore lead to legal instability. we are therefore in favour of such a postponement.
in writing. ‒ regulation 1286/2014 aims to strengthen investor protection in the financial services sector by improving the transparency of the retail investment market. it requires the originator of a retail packaged insurance-based investment product (priip) to produce a key information document, called a key information document (kid). this regulation empowers the european supervisory authorities (esas) to develop regulatory technical standards specifying the elements to be contained in the kid. the commission approved the draft submitted by the esas by adopting a delegated act which was also approved by the council. however, the parliament rejected the delegated act and asked the commission to review the provisions on priips. these new kids are criticized for being opaque and misleading. past performance is suppressed in favour of future performance scenarios built around assumptions that leave a lot of room for subjectivity and do not take into account past crises. the formulae used on the platelet are not pessimistic enough. this is the subject of the proposal for a regulation presented by the european commission and endorsed by the berès report. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the priips regulation is criticised for introducing new information requirements, which are opaque and misleading, especially with regard to the presentation of performance and its calculation. past performance is suppressed in favour of future performance scenarios built around 3 hypotheses (unfavourable, moderate, favourable) which leave a lot of room for subjectivity and do not take into account past crises. the presence of past statistics is the only way to highlight the likely gains and losses in an objective way. the formulas used on the spreadsheet are not pessimistic enough and do not place enough emphasis on the risks of loss for the investor; the cost of the project is estimated at ecu 1 billion, and the cost is estimated at ecu 1 billion. since we voted to reject the delegated act presented by the commission and since the entry into force of the regulation without the technical standards specifying the information it should contain would lead to legal instability, we do not oppose this proposal for a regulation or the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for this technical text which delays the application of the priip regulation, which is necessary following the rejection last september of a delegated act on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a parliament regulation on key information documents for insurance-based retail investment products. the report was simply intended to postpone the date of application of the regulation in order to be better prepared for its entry into force.
in writing. ‒ the unprecedented financial crisis that has recently hit us must never happen again. that is why i voted in favour of this report which proposes an additional period of 12 months for the actors concerned to produce an explanatory document to guide consumers in their investment decisions. the purpose of this document is to provide investors with a simple overview of the most important details of the purchased financial product, including costs, risks and potential performance.
in writing. ‒ the regulation introduces a series of measures to strengthen investor protection in the financial services sector by improving the transparency of the retail investment market. it requires the originator of a retail packaged insurance-based investment product (priip) to produce a key information document, called a key information document (kid). this regulation empowers the european supervisory authorities (esas) to develop regulatory technical standards specifying the elements to be contained in the kid. however, these new kids are criticised for being opaque and misleading, especially in relation to the presentation of performance and its calculation. past performance is suppressed in favour of future performance scenarios built around 3 hypotheses (unfavourable, moderate, favourable) which leave a lot of room for subjectivity and do not take into account past crises. the presence of past statistics is the only way to highlight the likely gains and losses in an objective way. since the entry into force of the regulation, without the technical standards specifying the information to be contained in the kid, would lead to legal instability, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. this report asks the european parliament to approve an agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and nationals of kiribati who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a justification stating that the agreement is an outcome between the eu and third countries - which has a strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement - and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues (human rights, fundamental freedoms, etc.). the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to monitor possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms . the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of kiribati who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. such a visa exemption would present security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. is it appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control of mass immigration? i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of kiribati who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. at a time when europe is being hit by terrorist attacks and massive illegal immigration, these exemptions do not seem to be on the agenda, as bad people could one day use them. i am therefore strongly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of kiribati who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the rapporteur believes that this type of agreement is a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and of intensifying dialogue on various issues, notably human rights and fundamental freedoms. on the contrary, we consider it absolutely inappropriate to conclude such an agreement at a time when our western societies are threatened by islamic fundamentalism which uses legal immigration routes to enter our territories and plan terrorist attacks there. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. this visa-free regime for citizens of the union and nationals of kiribati for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period should strengthen our economic and cultural relations by having a positive impact on both contracting parties.
in writing. - i voted against this text. these agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of kiribati, the solomon islands, micronesia, tuvalu and the marshall islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in a context of security concerns, any proposal for visa facilitation or exemptions seems to us inappropriate.
in writing. ‒ since the beginning of its mandate, this parliament has been required to approve 18 agreements with third countries aimed at exempting eu and third country nationals from visa requirements when travelling to the territory of the other party for non-business stays of less than 3 months. i voted against all of them, including the five agreements today. the latter are, of course, small island states in oceania with a total population of barely one million. the theoretical risks they pose in terms of mass immigration, terrorism or organised crime seem marginal. but on the one hand, this is part of a general desire in brussels to liberalize visa policy as much as possible with as many countries as possible, including the most unstable and most criminogenic countries. on the other hand, among the 18 states concerned, there are many countries on various national, european or international lists of tax havens or countries which do not cooperate in the fight against tax evasion or money laundering. this policy contributes to the insecurity and vulnerability of our countries. it must stop immediately.
in writing. ‒ if we take the specific case of the kiribati islands, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of these three archipelagos of 100,000 inhabitants located in the pacific ocean. there are no migration or security risks. however, i believe that visa exemption should not be an automatic process but the result of a thorough assessment of the political, institutional and geostrategic situation of the country concerned and of the possible repercussions that a lifting of the visa requirement may have on the european territory. this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans. i therefore reiterate my support for the swift adoption of the suspension mechanism which recalls that the visa waiver is not an 'unlimited pass' but a conditional facility which meets certain requirements.
in writing. ‒ this report on a visa waiver for kiribati citizens raises pro-forma security risks. as such, it would be very unwise for the european union to sign an agreement that would only add to the already heavy weight of the migration crisis in our territories. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the conclusion of an agreement with the republic of kiribati to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is not appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the european union has lost all control over immigration.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the agreement provides for the introduction of a visa-free travel regime for kiribati citizens. they will now be able to travel to the territory of the member states of the european union without a visa. this proposal concerns short stays of no more than 90 days. citizens of member states will enjoy the same privilege when travelling to kiribati. the visa liberalisation envisaged by the european commission is dangerous and carries security risks. lack of control can increase the level of organised crime, money laundering and drug trafficking. it can also encourage mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ the visa exemption for kiribati citizens poses potential security risks (organized crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the eu has lost all control over immigration. so i objected to this file.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and the third-country nationals concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to monitor possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms . the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the proposed visa waiver poses security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to vote for such an agreement when we see every day that the eu is unable to control migration flows. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides, on a reciprocal basis and for short stays, for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and for nationals of kiribati. this agreement will strengthen the economic and cultural links linking this country to our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the visa waiver for the territories of the eu and the republic of kiribati. this exemption applies to all travellers from both zones, for a period of 90 days, for any reason. however, it excludes persons wishing to work for a salary. the development of relations between the eu and the republic of kiribati does not pose any migration or security risks to our continent, due to its remoteness and low population.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a brief justification stating that it constitutes a culmination of the deepening of bilateral relations which has a strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with this country, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against it.
in writing. this report asks for the european parliament's approval of an agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and solomon islands nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a justification stating that the agreement is an outcome between the eu and the solomon islands - with strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement - and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues (human rights, fundamental freedoms, etc.). the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the solomon islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. such a visa exemption would present security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration. is it appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control of mass immigration? i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the solomon islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. at a time when europe is being hit by terrorist attacks and massive illegal immigration, these exemptions do not seem to be on the agenda, as bad people could one day use them. i am therefore strongly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of the solomon islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the rapporteur believes that this type of agreement is a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and of intensifying dialogue on various issues, notably human rights and fundamental freedoms. on the contrary, we consider it absolutely inappropriate to conclude such an agreement at a time when our western societies are threatened by islamic fundamentalism which uses legal immigration routes to enter our territories and plan terrorist attacks there. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver, which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and solomon islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. through this agreement we will not only strengthen the political dialogue between the two sides, but also economic and cultural relations.
in writing. - i voted against this text. these agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of kiribati, the solomon islands, micronesia, tuvalu and the marshall islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in a context of security concerns, any proposal for visa facilitation or exemption seems to us inappropriate.
in writing. ‒ if we take the special case of the solomon islands, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for the nationals of this parliamentary democracy with 600 000 inhabitants located in the pacific ocean. there are no migration or security risks. however, i believe that visa exemption should not be an automatic process but the result of a thorough assessment of the political, institutional and geostrategic situation of the country concerned and of the possible repercussions that a lifting of the visa requirement may have on the european territory. this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans. i therefore reiterate my support for the swift adoption of the suspension mechanism which recalls that the visa waiver is not an 'unlimited pass' but a conditional facility which meets certain requirements.
in writing. ‒ this report on a visa exemption for solomon islands citizens raises proteanform security risks. as such, it would be very unwise for the european union to sign an agreement that would only add to the already heavy weight of the migration crisis in our territories. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the conclusion of an agreement with the solomon islands to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is not appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the european union has lost all control over immigration.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the agreement provides for the introduction of a visa-free travel regime for solomon islands citizens. they will now be able to travel to the territory of the member states of the european union without a visa. this proposal concerns short stays of no more than 90 days. citizens of member states will enjoy the same privilege when travelling to the solomon islands. the visa liberalisation envisaged by the european commission is dangerous and carries security risks. lack of control can increase the level of organised crime, money laundering and drug trafficking. it can also encourage mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ the visa exemption for solomon islands citizens poses potential security risks (organized crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the eu has lost all control over immigration. so i objected to this file.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and the third-country nationals concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the proposed visa waiver poses security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to vote for such an agreement when we see every day that the eu is unable to control migration flows. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for a reciprocal visa-free regime for short-term stays for citizens of the european union and solomon islands. this agreement will strengthen the economic and cultural links linking these islands to our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the visa waiver for the eu and solomon islands. this exemption applies to all travellers from both zones, for a period of 90 days, for any reason. however, it excludes persons wishing to work for a salary. this agreement will allow us to deepen our dialogue with the solomon islands, particularly on environmental and climate issues, which directly affect all citizens.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a brief justification stating that it constitutes a culmination of the deepening of bilateral relations which has a strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with this country, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against it.
in writing. this report asks for the european parliament's approval of an agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and micronesia who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a justification stating that the agreement is an outcome between the eu and micronesia - with strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement - and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues (human rights, fundamental freedoms, etc.). the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and micronesia who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. such a visa exemption would present security (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. is it appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control of mass immigration? i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and micronesia who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. at a time when europe is being hit by terrorist attacks and massive illegal immigration, these exemptions do not seem to be on the agenda, as bad people could one day use them. i am therefore strongly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and micronesia who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the rapporteur believes that this type of agreement is a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and of intensifying dialogue on various issues, notably human rights and fundamental freedoms. on the contrary, we consider it absolutely inappropriate to conclude such an agreement at a time when our western societies are threatened by islamic fundamentalism which uses legal immigration routes to enter our territories and plan terrorist attacks there. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. this short-stay visa waiver measure is a step forward in strengthening political dialogue and economic relations between the eu member states and the federated states of micronesia. while relations with the european union have expanded since the signature of the cotonou agreements by the federated states of micronesia, i supported this report to facilitate the movement of nationals who travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. - i voted against this text. these agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of kiribati, the solomon islands, micronesia, tuvalu and the marshall islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in a context of security concerns, any proposal for visa facilitation or exemption seems to us inappropriate.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of the federated states of micronesia, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of this federal state of over 100 000 inhabitants located in the pacific ocean. there are no migration or security risks. however, i believe that visa exemption should not be an automatic process but the result of a thorough assessment of the political, institutional and geostrategic situation of the country concerned and of the possible repercussions that a lifting of the visa requirement may have on the european territory. this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans. i therefore reiterate my support for the swift adoption of the suspension mechanism which recalls that the visa waiver is not an 'unlimited pass' but a conditional facility which meets certain requirements.
in writing. ‒ this report on a visa exemption for micronesian citizens raises pro-forma security risks. as such, it would be very unwise for the european union to sign an agreement that would only add to the already heavy weight of the migration crisis in our territories. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the conclusion of an agreement with the federated states of micronesia to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is not appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the european union has lost all control over immigration.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the agreement provides for the introduction of a visa-free travel regime for the citizens of micronesia. they will now be able to travel to the territory of the member states of the european union without a visa. this proposal concerns short stays of no more than 90 days. citizens of the member states will enjoy the same privilege when travelling to micronesia. the visa liberalisation envisaged by the european commission is dangerous and carries security risks. lack of control can increase the level of organised crime, money laundering and drug trafficking. it can also encourage mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ the visa exemption for micronesian citizens poses potential security risks (organized crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the eu has lost all control over immigration. so i objected to this file.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and the third-country nationals concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the proposed visa waiver poses security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to vote for such an agreement when we see every day that the eu is unable to control migration flows. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides, on a reciprocal basis and for short stays, for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and micronesian nationals. this agreement will strengthen the economic and cultural links between these countries and our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the visa waiver for the territories of the eu and the federated states of micronesia. this exemption applies to all travellers from both zones, for a period of 90 days, for any reason. however, it excludes persons wishing to work for a salary. this agreement opens a new stage in our rapprochement. this remains paramount as europe negotiates a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with the federated states of micronesia.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a brief justification stating that it constitutes a culmination of the deepening of bilateral relations which has a strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with this country, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against it.
in writing. this report asks for the european parliament's approval of an agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and tuvalu nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a justification stating that the agreement is an outcome between the eu and tuvalu - with strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement - and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues (human rights, fundamental freedoms, etc.). the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and tuvalu who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. such a visa exemption would present security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration. is it appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control of mass immigration? i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and tuvalu who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. at a time when europe is being hit by terrorist attacks and massive illegal immigration, these exemptions do not seem to be on the agenda, as bad people could one day use them. i am therefore strongly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and tuvalu who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the rapporteur believes that this type of agreement is a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and of intensifying dialogue on various issues, notably human rights and fundamental freedoms. on the contrary, we consider it absolutely inappropriate to conclude such an agreement at a time when our western societies are threatened by islamic fundamentalism which uses legal immigration routes to enter our territories and plan terrorist attacks there. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver which allows visa-free travel for stays of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in addition to strengthening political dialogue and economic relations, this measure will have a direct positive impact on the economic costs of travel by travellers from the contracting states.
in writing. - i voted against this text. these agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of kiribati, the solomon islands, micronesia, tuvalu and the marshall islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in a context of security concerns, any proposal for visa facilitation or exemptions seems to us inappropriate.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of tuvalu, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of this polynesian archipelago of 12 000 inhabitants in the pacific ocean. there are no migration or security risks. however, i believe that visa exemption should not be an automatic process but the result of a thorough assessment of the political, institutional and geostrategic situation of the country concerned and of the possible repercussions that a lifting of the visa requirement may have on the european territory. this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans. i therefore reiterate my support for the swift adoption of the suspension mechanism which recalls that the visa waiver is not an 'unlimited pass' but a conditional facility which meets certain requirements.
in writing. ‒ this report on a visa exemption for tuvalu citizens raises protective security risks. as such, it would be very unwise for the european union to sign an agreement that would only add to the already heavy weight of the migration crisis in our territories. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the conclusion of an agreement with tuvalu to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is not appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the european union has lost all control over immigration.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the agreement provides for the introduction of a visa-free travel regime for tuvaluan citizens. they will now be able to travel to the territory of the member states of the european union without a visa. this proposal concerns short stays of no more than 90 days. citizens of member states will enjoy the same privilege when travelling to tuvalu. the visa liberalisation envisaged by the european commission is dangerous and carries security risks. lack of control can increase the level of organised crime, money laundering and drug trafficking. it can also encourage mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ the visa exemption for tuvaluan citizens poses potential security risks (organized crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the eu has lost all control over immigration. so i objected to this file.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and the third-country nationals concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the proposed visa waiver poses security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to vote for such an agreement when we see every day that the eu is unable to control migration flows. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides, on a reciprocal basis and for short stays, for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the european union and tuvalu nationals. this agreement will strengthen the economic and cultural links linking this country to our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the visa waiver for the territories of the eu and tuvalu. this exemption applies to all travellers from both zones, for a period of 90 days, for any reason. however, it excludes persons wishing to work for a salary. this agreement will facilitate the development of tourism, which is vital for tuvalu, which remains one of the poorest countries in the pacific.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a brief justification stating that it constitutes a culmination of the deepening of bilateral relations which has a strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with this country, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against it.
in writing. this report asks for the european parliament's approval of an agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and marshall islands when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a justification stating that the agreement is an outcome between the eu and the marshall islands - with strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement - and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues (human rights, fundamental freedoms, etc.). the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of the marshall islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. such a visa exemption would present security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration. is it appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control of mass immigration? i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of the marshall islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. at a time when europe is being hit by terrorist attacks and massive illegal immigration, these exemptions do not seem to be on the agenda, as bad people could one day use them. i am therefore strongly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of the marshall islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the rapporteur believes that this type of agreement is a means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and of intensifying dialogue on various issues, notably human rights and fundamental freedoms. on the contrary, we consider it absolutely inappropriate to conclude such an agreement at a time when our western societies are threatened by islamic fundamentalism which uses legal immigration routes to enter our territories and plan terrorist attacks there. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this agreement will not only strengthen our economic and cultural relations by facilitating investment and tourism, but also our political dialogue, particularly on climate change issues.
in writing. - i voted against this text. these agreements provide for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of kiribati, the solomon islands, micronesia, tuvalu and the marshall islands when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. in a context of security concerns, any proposal for visa facilitation or exemption seems to us inappropriate.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of the marshall islands, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of this small archipelago of just over 50 000 inhabitants in the pacific ocean. there are no migration or security risks. however, i believe that visa exemption should not be an automatic process but the result of a thorough assessment of the political, institutional and geostrategic situation of the country concerned and of the possible repercussions that a lifting of the visa requirement may have on the european territory. this review should not only be based on the progress made in the years preceding this evaluation, but also take into account the potential risks of air pollution that a visa exemption may create in the medium term, as we have seen with some countries in the western balkans. i therefore reiterate my support for the swift adoption of the suspension mechanism which recalls that the visa waiver is not an 'unlimited pass' but a conditional facility which meets certain requirements.
in writing. ‒ this report on a visa waiver for citizens of the marshall islands raises protective security risks. as such, it would be very unwise for the european union to sign an agreement that would only add to the already heavy weight of the migration crisis in our territories. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the conclusion of an agreement with the republic of the marshall islands to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is not appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the european union has lost all control over immigration.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the agreement provides for the introduction of a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the marshall islands. they will now be able to travel to the territory of the member states of the european union without a visa. this proposal concerns short stays of no more than 90 days. citizens of member states will enjoy the same privilege when travelling to the marshall islands. the visa liberalisation envisaged by the european commission is dangerous and carries security risks. lack of control can increase the level of organised crime, money laundering and drug trafficking. it can also encourage mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ the exemption from the visa requirement for citizens of the marshall islands poses potential security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the eu has lost all control over immigration. so i objected to this file.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and the third-country nationals concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the proposed visa waiver poses security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.). it is not appropriate to vote for such an agreement when we see every day that the eu is unable to control migration flows. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for a reciprocal visa-free regime for short-term stays for citizens of the european union and the marshall islands. this agreement will strengthen the economic and cultural links linking these islands to our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the visa waiver for the eu and marshall islands. this exemption applies to all travellers from both zones, for a period of 90 days, for any reason. however, it excludes persons wishing to work for a salary. this agreement opens a new stage in our rapprochement with this territory. this remains paramount as europe negotiates a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with the marshall islands.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and its nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the report is accompanied by a brief justification stating that it constitutes a culmination of the deepening of bilateral relations which has a strong political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement. the libe committee, however, invites the european commission to 'observe possible developments with regard to issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, the union's external relations with this country, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms'. the visa waiver therefore presents security risks (organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking, etc.) and immigration risks. the question must be asked whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i vote against it.
in writing. created in 2002 following severe floods, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) aims to provide financial assistance to member states and candidate countries that have suffered extraordinary natural disasters, with direct material damage amounting to more than eur 3 billion or representing more than 0.6% of gross national income. this report simplifies the procedures for mobilising the eusf in order to facilitate the execution of payments. to achieve this, the report recommends raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and lowering the threshold for natural disasters to 1% of regional gdp. in addition, it is requested that other indicators, apart from gdp, such as the human development index and the regional development index, be taken into account in the new methods for calculating the allocation of the eusf. the eusf is the expression of european solidarity and provides significant financial support to national and local authorities in regions affected by natural disasters. in this context, it is appropriate to simplify the functioning of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to simplify the procedures for mobilising the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to facilitate the execution of payments to states affected by natural disasters. to achieve this, the text recommends, in particular, raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and lowering the threshold for the eligibility of natural disasters to 1% of regional gdp. in addition, it is requested that other indicators, apart from gdp, such as the human development index and the regional development index, be taken into account in the new methods for calculating the allocation of the eusf. the fund provides significant financial support to regions affected by natural disasters. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal as it seems quite appropriate to simplify the operation of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments.
in writing. ‒ the eusf was established in 2002 and has a budget of €500 million to provide financial assistance to member states and candidate countries that have suffered extraordinary natural disasters with direct material damage of more than €3 billion or representing more than 0.6% of gross national income. the report should simplify the procedures for mobilising the eusf in order to facilitate the execution of payments to states affected by natural disasters, in particular by raising the threshold for advance payments or by taking into account other indicators in addition to gdp. in the face of natural disasters, financial support is always appropriate and welcome and the eusf is a significant tool for national or local authorities in the affected regions. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to facilitate the procedures for the implementation of the eusf in the event of natural disasters, both at regional and national level. i consider solidarity to be a virtue that can be exercised at european level, and i am therefore not against it. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to simplify the procedures for mobilising the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to facilitate the execution of payments to states affected by natural disasters. to achieve this, the report recommends raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and lowering the threshold for natural disasters to 1% of regional gdp. in addition, it is requested that other indicators, apart from gdp, such as the human development index or the regional development index, be taken into account in the new methods for calculating the allocation of the eusf. we consider the eusf to be the expression of european solidarity and to be a significant financial support for national and local authorities in regions affected by natural disasters. in this context, it seems to us quite appropriate to simplify the operation of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments on the sole condition that it is not used to finance the reception of illegal migrants in the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is an important source of financial support for local and regional authorities and helps to alleviate the consequences of natural disasters occurring across the european continent. these include floods, earthquakes, forest fires and other disasters that are often unpredictable and have major social, economic and environmental consequences. in the face of these threats, european solidarity is indispensable. unfortunately, it is noted that beneficiaries continue to face problems due to the length of the entire process of applying for advance payments. i voted in favour of this report which proposes improvements to the eusf for rapid and effective financial assistance to the victims of climate change and its most violent consequences.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up following the disastrous floods in central europe in the summer of 2002. it is an instrument for the eu to respond to major natural disasters on its territory. this european parliament report analyses the annual report of the eusf of the european commission and makes recommendations for a future reform that would redefine regional natural disasters. the report also calls on the european commission to analyse the possibility of increasing the threshold for advance payments to 15% and of reducing the processing times for applications to 4 weeks in order to increase the effectiveness of the eusf. considering that a more responsive and efficient fund would make it possible to respond better to the challenges of natural disasters that eu territories may face, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the evaluation report of the european union solidarity fund (eusf). the eusf is a key instrument for cooperation between member states to provide assistance to european territories and citizens affected by natural disasters. the report puts forward credible proposals to improve this important tool, such as reducing the time taken to process aid applications or making the use of funds more transparent.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up in 2002 following severe floods to provide financial assistance to member states and candidate countries that have suffered from extraordinary natural disasters, where direct material damage represents more than 0.6% of gross national income. the eusf is an important tool of european solidarity, and we believe it is important to simplify its use and widen its access.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: this report aims to simplify the procedures for mobilising the eusf to facilitate the execution of payments to states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ any desire to simplify the operation of the european union solidarity fund and to speed up the execution of payments is welcome. this mechanism is an example of european solidarity and is proving to be decisive in the financial assistance it provides to localities affected by natural disasters. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report assessing the eu solidarity fund, as it makes recommendations for a future reform of the eu solidarity fund for natural disasters which should take into account the possibility of redefining regional natural disasters, allowing a single application to be submitted jointly by several eligible states at cross-border level, and considering indirect damage when assessing the application. the commission is also asked to examine the possibility of increasing the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and of reducing the processing time for applications from 6 weeks to 4 weeks, which is highly desirable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to facilitate the execution of payments from the eusf, and calls for raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and lowering the threshold for natural disasters to 1% of regional gdp.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the report aims to simplify the procedures for mobilising the european union solidarity fund (eusf). the eusf was set up in 2002 following the severe floods that affected several european countries. it is intended to provide financial assistance to member states which have suffered extraordinary natural disasters. we consider this fund to be a good instrument of european solidarity and one of the few examples of the good use of funds from national contributions. the simplification of the rules for its mobilisation is therefore welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to simplify the procedures for mobilising the eusf to facilitate the execution of payments to states affected by natural disasters. to achieve this, the report recommends raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and lowering the threshold for natural disasters to 1% of regional gdp. in addition, it is requested that other indicators, apart from gdp, such as the human development index and the regional development index, be taken into account in the new methods for calculating the allocation of the eusf. we consider the eusf to be the expression of european solidarity and to be a significant financial support for national and local authorities in regions affected by natural disasters. in this context, it seems to us quite appropriate to simplify the operation of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to simplify the procedures for mobilising the eusf to facilitate the execution of payments to states affected by natural disasters. to achieve this, the report recommends raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and lowering the threshold for natural disasters to 1% of regional gdp. in addition, it is requested that other indicators, apart from gdp, such as the human development index and the regional development index, be taken into account in the new methods for calculating the allocation of the eusf. we consider the eusf to be the expression of european solidarity and to be a significant financial support for national and local authorities in regions affected by natural disasters. in this context, it seems to us quite appropriate to simplify the operation of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments.
in writing. ‒ the eusf is the expression of european solidarity and provides significant financial support to national and local authorities in regions affected by natural disasters. in this context, it seems to me quite appropriate to simplify the operation of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments. i vote for the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation of the european union solidarity fund. the fund, set up in the wake of the 2002 floods in eastern europe, is a genuine instrument of solidarity to help countries affected by major natural disasters. this report proposes changes to this mechanism to improve its efficiency. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to amend the existing rules on the protection of the environment. it also proposes the creation of the possibility of submitting a single application for joint aid when several states are affected by a disaster.
in writing. ‒ the eu established the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in 2002 to deal with emergencies such as natural disasters, particularly in the member states. i voted in favour of this report which deals with the evaluation of the eusf and which considers various solutions to improve its effectiveness. we plan to increase the speed of eusf response, to enhance collaboration between national and local actors and to improve the risk prevention and management strategy. finally, we would also like to consider the possibility of allowing single and joint applications by several eligible states affected by a cross-border natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the work of the european union solidarity fund. the european union solidarity fund has played a key role in the union's response to natural disasters in member states such as earthquakes, floods, forest fires and storms. since its creation, €3.8 billion has been mobilised for more than 70 disasters in 24 member states. the report calls for improving the speed of response and thus reducing the length of the whole process by, in particular, strengthening the mechanism for advance payments. the report calls on the member states and the commission to increase the transparency of procedures and to improve cooperation within european states with local authorities. finally, i supported this text because it underlines the essential nature of developing synergies between the different funds and union policies in the context of preventing the effects of natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ created in 2002 following severe floods, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) aims to provide financial assistance to member states and candidate countries that have suffered extraordinary natural disasters, with direct material damage amounting to more than eur 3 billion or representing more than 0.6% of gross national income. the report aims to simplify the procedures for mobilising the eusf to facilitate the execution of payments to states affected by natural disasters. to achieve this, it recommends, in particular, raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15% and lowering the threshold for natural disasters to 1% of regional gdp. we consider the eusf to be the expression of european solidarity and to be a significant financial support for national and local authorities in the affected regions. in this context, it seems to us quite appropriate to simplify the operation of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the gue and alde resolutions, as they call for referral to the court of justice to verify the compatibility of the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data with the treaties. these texts underline that the european data protection supervisor raised questions on the compatibility of the framework agreement with the charter and european secondary data protection law, and in particular on the right to judicial redress, access to personal data by law enforcement agencies, limitation of the right of access to data of data subjects and data retention periods. the european data protection supervisor is also concerned that the competent data protection authorities in the united states do not meet the requirements of the court of justice to be considered fully independent and have effective powers of intervention, and is concerned about whether the data protection authorities will be able to block transfers of personal data if they do not comply with union law.
in writing. ‒ this is a motion for a resolution requesting the court of justice to give its opinion on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. these texts underline that the european data protection supervisor raised a number of issues on the compatibility of the framework agreement with the charter and european secondary data protection law, and more specifically on the right to judicial redress, access to personal data by law enforcement agencies, limitation of the right of access to data of data subjects and data retention periods. these issues are relevant and legitimate, and i therefore supported this resolution and voted against the albrecht report on the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data processed in the context of criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ on these resolutions concerning the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, i supported the alde resolution and voted against the gue resolution. the centrist resolution calls for the court of justice to be seized to verify the compatibility of the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data with the treaties. the edps also fears that the competent data protection authorities in the united states do not meet the requirements of the court of justice to be considered fully independent and have effective powers of intervention, and is concerned about whether the data protection authorities will be able to block transfers of personal data if they do not comply with union data protection legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gue and alde resolutions, which call for the court of justice of the european union to be seized to verify the compatibility of the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data with the treaties. the european data protection supervisor is concerned that the competent data protection authorities in the united states do not meet the requirements of the court of justice to be considered fully independent and to have effective powers of intervention, and is concerned about whether the data protection authorities will be able to block transfers of personal data if they do not comply with union data protection legislation. i voted against the albrecht report.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution asks the court of justice to be consulted on the compatibility of the european treaties with the proposed agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. the european data protection supervisor raised a number of questions about the inadequacy of data protection safeguards, in particular as regards the right to legal redress, the limitation of the right of access to data of data subjects and the period of data retention. the european data protection supervisor also doubts the full independence of the us data protection authorities, which is an essential prerequisite for such an agreement. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i rejected the resolutions tabled by the centre and far-left political groups requesting the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. these motions for resolutions are nothing but a new political maneuver by those who will remain opposed to the conclusion of this agreement in order to delay its implementation. this is irresponsible behaviour, whereas this agreement will undoubtedly strengthen our cooperation with the united states in the fight against terrorism, while ensuring a high level of protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted for these texts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data in the context of the protection of the rights of the individual. the european data protection supervisor expressed serious reservations, in particular regarding the independence of the us competent authorities and their ability to oppose an illegal transfer of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the two motions for resolutions tabled today, which seek the opinion of the luxembourg court of justice on the compatibility of an international agreement with the treaties. the purpose of the eu-us privacy shield is to protect the rights of eu citizens when their personal data is transferred to the us under other eu or bilateral agreements. the very definitions of 'personal data' and 'data processing' are known to differ on both sides of the atlantic, which is itself a problem. it is also known that rights of access, rectification and redress are limited in the united states for foreign nationals, despite the judicial redress act of february 2016. even the european data protection supervisor considers that this agreement does not provide sufficient guarantees as to the effectiveness of the remedies. the privacy act of 1974, for example, has not been amended. neither the eu nor its member states are considered to be entities whose citizens can bring civil actions against certain us agencies. all of this should be done with the utmost caution.
in writing. ‒ i consider, as the european data protection supervisor, that there are deficiencies in the agreement between the european union and the united states on the protection of personal data, to the extent that i request to refer the matter to the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolutions aimed at delaying the agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal information processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. the protection of personal data is ensured by this new text. in this time of a significant terrorist threat, it is important to cooperate better with our partners in the criminal field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider, as the european data protection supervisor, that there are gaps in the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data. i therefore support his request to refer the matter to the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of this agreement with the european treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted for both proposals. both texts ask the european court of justice (ecj) to rule on the compatibility of such an agreement between the us and the eu with the european treaties. the reservations of the ecj concern the question of the independence of the competent us authorities and the real possibilities of blocking data transfers in the event of a dispute, which seems to me to be consistent.
in writing. ‒ these are two motions for resolutions tabled by the gue and alde groups requesting the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. these two resolutions raise relevant issues since the edps is concerned that the competent authorities in the us do not meet the requirements of the court of justice and are therefore not fully independent. i therefore supported these two common sense resolutions by voting for them.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of referring the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data to the court of justice, which has many shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which sought the opinion of the cjeu on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. the fact that the court of justice was seized is merely a ruse put in place by the groups opposed to the agreement with the sole aim of delaying its provisional implementation.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of concluding this agreement with the united states in order to strengthen our cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, while ensuring a high level of data protection. i am therefore firmly opposed to any political manoeuvre to delay the implementation of this agreement, which is why i have decided to vote against the resolution requesting a legal opinion from the court of justice of the european union to verify the compatibility of this agreement with the treaties. i would remind you that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is negotiating this agreement, so there is no reason to question its accounting.
in writing. the agreement in question aims to establish a framework of principles and safeguards for the protection of personal data when transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the united states and the european union or its member states. its objective is to ensure a high level of protection of personal data of union data subjects when exchanged with the united states. with the front national, i oppose the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data. this agreement provides for certain rights and safeguards in relation to data protection, but these are insufficient. the european data protection supervisor recommends essential improvements to ensure that the judicial redress provisions are effective. it also states that mass transfers of sensitive data are not allowed. in addition, the european union or its member states have not yet been declared by the us department of justice as one of the countries whose citizens can bring civil actions against certain us government agencies under the privacy act of 1974. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the agreement is to establish a framework of principles and safeguards for the protection of personal data when transferred for the purposes of criminal law enforcement between the united states and the european union or its member states. its objective is to try to ensure sufficient protection of personal data of eu data subjects when they are exchanged with the united states. i have always opposed the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data, especially with our american partners since their highly questionable practices were revealed by edward snowden and julian assange. the agreement provides for certain rights and safeguards in relation to data protection, but these are largely inadequate. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the agreement is to establish a framework of principles and safeguards for data protection in the transfer of personal information for criminal law enforcement purposes between the united states and the european union or its member states in order to ensure a high level of data protection. the processing could only be for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, including terrorism. i have always opposed the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data, especially as the rights and safeguards of the agreement are insufficient. the european data protection supervisor even recommends essential improvements to ensure that the judicial review provisions are effective. finally, the eu or its member states have not been declared by the us department of justice as among the countries whose citizens may bring civil actions against certain us government agencies under the privacy act of 1974. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have always opposed the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data. this agreement provides for certain rights and safeguards in relation to data protection, but these are insufficient. the european data protection supervisor recommended essential improvements to ensure the effectiveness of the judicial redress provisions. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to establish safeguards for the protection of personal data when personal information is transferred for the purposes of criminal law enforcement between the united states and the european union and its member states. to this end, the agreement shall specify the period for which the data are to be retained. the individuals concerned would be able to exercise rights in relation to any transatlantic transfer of personal data in the law enforcement field, namely the right of access to data, the right to have data concerning them rectified and the right to lodge an administrative or judicial complaint if the competent person does not accept the outcome of their request. we have always opposed the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data. although the agreement is a step in the right direction, the data protection safeguards it provides are insufficient. this is evidenced by the report of the european data protection supervisor which recommends serious improvements to ensure that the provisions on judicial redress are effective. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement which will ensure high and binding data protection standards for transatlantic data exchanges between police authorities. the agreement covers the transfer of all personal data for prevention purposes and will allow for criminal prosecutions, especially in the field of terrorism. we will thus obtain strong rights for citizens on both sides of the atlantic.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report concerns the approval of the agreement between the european union and the united states of america. the aim of this agreement is to ensure high and binding standards of personal data protection for transatlantic data exchanges between police and law enforcement authorities. considering that in a context of security tension it is necessary to develop a common fight between the european union and the united states against crime and terrorism, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i have of course supported the conclusion of the umbrella agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal information processed in connection with criminal offences. after several years of negotiations, this agreement is an important step forward in strengthening our cooperation with the united states, an indispensable partner in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, while ensuring a high level of protection of personal data transferred for the purposes of preventing or detecting criminal offences, conducting investigations and prosecutions.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the aim of the agreement is to establish a framework of principles and safeguards for the protection of personal data when transferred for criminal law enforcement purposes between the united states of america and the european union or its member states. we have always opposed the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data. the guarantees provided for in the agreement are insufficient.
in writing. ‒ vote against: we are opposed to the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ compatibility of this agreement with the european treaties: it is logical that i reject the agreement itself. the rapporteur, mr albrecht, considers that although it is imperfect, it is the best possible agreement in the current context. it also welcomes the fact that it does not in itself constitute a legal basis for data transfers, but rather adds new rights and protections to existing data transfer frameworks in the context of eu-us law enforcement cooperation. i have known the rapporteur to be less confident and more combative on these issues. the united states, with the scandal of the massive collection of data of all kinds by the nsa, has amply demonstrated that they put their national security above all other considerations. i do not trust an agreement of this kind to protect the rights of europeans and i do not want it to become an alibi for a multiplicity of subsequent agreements involving transfers of personal data. cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime can be achieved without involving systematic surveillance of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that parliament has agreed to the implementation of the framework agreement between the european union and the united states, which will ensure a high level of protection of personal data in transfers between law enforcement authorities on both continents. we have again escaped a delaying manoeuvre by the far left and some liberals who wanted to refer the agreement back to the court of justice in order to delay its implementation. it should be understood that this agreement does not constitute a legal basis, since the exchange of data between authorities in the field of criminal investigation and the fight against terrorism is already regulated by bilateral agreements. the agreement actually complements existing agreements by adding safeguards for the protection of european citizens' data, including the possibility of legal action in the united states or a limited storage period for data. while this agreement has been negotiated for five years with a very strong legal team, and while the majority of members, including the greens, have recognised the benefits of this agreement for citizens and the fight against terrorism, i find the practices of these members really dishonest.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the guarantees offered in the field of personal data protection are not sufficient, as evidenced by the possibility of transferring data of non-suspect individuals, for example flight passengers. i am opposed to the very principle of systematic exchange of this type of data. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal data processed in the context of criminal offences, as it will increase the security of european citizens. the agreement is demanding on data protection when it comes to the transfer of personal data of citizens. the european citizens will also have the same rights as us citizens when seeking redress in us courts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to accept the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data. however, i do not think that the guarantees offered by this agreement are sufficient, particularly because the protection of judicial review has not yet been granted by the united states to eu nationals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report authorising the conclusion of the umbrella agreement , an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. the agreement establishes a framework for enhanced cooperation with the united states in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, while ensuring a high level of data protection. it is a significant step forward which must now be implemented rapidly.
in writing. - i voted against this report. i voted against this text in the name of defending individual freedoms and knowing that data exchanges could become systematic, while their effectiveness in the fight against criminal offences is not proven. the eu-us agreement provides for the transfer of personal information in the context of certain special procedures. to avoid misunderstandings, certain guarantees of confidentiality are attached to it. however, the safeguards are still insufficient because the fight against terrorism could condone freedom-killing practices. the exercise of the right of access of data subjects appears difficult to enforce and the possibility of appeal is not guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the agreement's initial objective is to establish a framework of principles and safeguards on data protection in the transfer of personal information for criminal law enforcement purposes between the united states and the eu or its member states. its objective is to ensure a high level of protection of personal data of eu data subjects when exchanged with the united states. they would be able to claim rights in relation to any transatlantic transfer of personal data in the law enforcement field, namely the right of access to data and the right to have data concerning them rectified, the right to bring an administrative or judicial action if a person does not accept the outcome of his/her request for access or rectification. as a reminder, we are opposed to the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data, and the safeguards offered by the agreement are not sufficient. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the agreement is to establish a framework of principles and safeguards for the protection of personal data when transferred for the purposes of criminal law enforcement between the united states and the european union or its member states. its objective is to ensure a high level of protection of personal data of union data subjects when exchanged with the united states. we are opposed to the very principle of systematic exchange of personal data, but the agreement provides for certain rights and guarantees in the field of data protection. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ the safeguards offered by this agreement in terms of the protection of personal data are largely inadequate. i therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. this will strengthen cooperation between the us and europe to fight crime, while providing citizens with protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the european union and the united states. it will ensure better privacy protection when personal data is transferred between european and us police authorities to combat terrorism and organised crime. it is essential to have high standards in place to protect the privacy of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament's approval to the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data. this framework agreement will ensure high and binding data protection standards for transatlantic data exchanges between police authorities. the transfer of such personal data will take place in the context of the prevention and detection of criminal offences and of criminal investigations and prosecutions, including terrorism. the agreement will also guarantee european and us citizens the right to be informed of data breaches, to request the rectification of incorrect information or to bring legal proceedings. i therefore supported this agreement, which will allow both the exchange of personal information with the united states and guarantee the protection of the rights of european citizens.
in writing. ghana has decided to sign the 2007 economic partnership agreement, which provides duty-free access to the eu market (pending a regional agreement which is long overdue). ghana is one of the major agri-food exporters in west africa. it also exports wood, gold, oil, cocoa. the agreement will increase ghana's 'liberalised' exports to the eu from 35 to 80% of the total. ghana protects its sensitive agricultural and food products. this agreement with ghana appears to be a trojan horse to force the other west african states to open their markets by signing a regional partnership agreement which they are refusing to sign for the time being. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ghana has decided to sign the 2007 economic partnership agreement, which provides duty-free access to the eu market. this agreement with ghana seems to be a trojan horse to force the other west african states to open their markets by signing a regional partnership agreement which they are refusing to sign for the time being. i therefore voted against this report, the aim of which seems to me to be beneficial only to a few multinationals.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the agreement on a step towards an eu-ghana economic partnership agreement. this agreement was signed in 2007 and provides duty-free access to the eu market (pending a regional agreement which is long overdue). ghana exports agro-foodstuffs, but also timber, gold, oil and cocoa. this agreement will increase ghana's exports to the eu, which are liberalized , from 35 to 80% of the total. finally, i believe that this agreement is intended to force the other west african states to open their markets by signing a regional partnership agreement which they are refusing to sign for the time being. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report, which aims to accelerate ghana's access to the european market for its agri-food products, timber, oil and cocoa, is in fact a trojan horse to force other states to create a regional free trade area. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ ghana has decided to sign the 2007 economic partnership agreement, which provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. the agreement aims to exempt 80% of ghana's exports from customs duties, up from 35% currently. at a time when our farmers are suffering badly from the fall in the price of raw materials and the russian embargo, it is scandalous that the european union continues to grant tariff concessions and ratify free trade agreements, trade agreements which will increase our farmers' exposure to unfair international competition and unbridled globalisation. the agreement also seems to be a pretext for imposing on other west african states the opening up of their markets. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the economic partnership agreement between the european union and west africa, in particular ghana. as a result of the delay in signing the agreement with west africa, ghana has ratified its economic partnership agreement, which aims to liberalise 80% of trade with the european union. this interim agreement provides for provisional application and will be replaced by the comprehensive economic partnership agreement with west africa once ratified. taking into account ghana's willingness and motivation to accelerate the process of implementing the economic partnership agreement and considering the interests of the european union in ratifying the comprehensive agreement with west africa from an economic and diplomatic point of view, i supported this report.
in writing. given the delay in the signature of the economic partnership agreement (epa), i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-ghana stepping-stone economic partnership agreement, which will allow its provisional application until the regional agreement is in place. the interim agreement thus allows ghanaian exporters to retain duty-free preferences on the european market. ghana will gradually liberalise 80% of imports from the european union over a period of 15 years.
in writing. - i voted against this report. as a major exporter of agri-food products, ghana has decided to sign the 2007 economic partnership agreement, which provides duty-free access to the eu market. this new agreement will liberalize ghana's production to between 35 and 80% of the total. other african states have refused to sign similar agreements. so this agreement seems to be a trojan horse.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the aim of this agreement is to force the other west african states to open their markets by signing a regional partnership agreement which they are refusing to sign for the time being.
in writing. ‒ in 2007, the european union signed an economic partnership agreement with ghana, giving it duty-free access to our market. this new agreement, which i regard as a trojan horse, will substantially increase ghanaian exports and sooner or later take the form of a wider regional free trade agreement. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of a partnership agreement between the european union and ghana pending the implementation of the economic partnership agreement with the whole of west africa. this provisional application agreement provides a contractual safety net by guaranteeing free access to the union market. it balances market access prospects with provisions to remove technical barriers to trade and to assist ghanaian exporters in complying with sanitary and phytosanitary measures. it provides for cooperation to strengthen capacity in tax reform and to improve the business climate, competitiveness, trade facilitation and customs cooperation. it is therefore in favour of development and trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it approves a new free trade agreement with ghana. i am opposed to any free trade agreement such as ceta or tafta. i also accuse this seemingly trivial agreement of being a kind of trojan horse paving the way for a wider free trade agreement with africa.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the european parliament voted in favour of the text, agreeing to increase ghana's exports to the eu from 35% to 80%. it is an economic partnership agreement that provides duty-free access to the eu market. we fear that ghana, which is one of the main agri-food exporters in west africa, will flood the european market with its agricultural products while protecting its domestic market with exemption clauses for sensitive agricultural and food products. we also believe that this agreement is a first step towards the liberalisation of trade between the eu and african countries. this liberalisation is envisaged by the commission in a regional partnership agreement which is currently awaiting signature and which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ ghana has decided to sign the 2007 economic partnership agreement, which provides duty-free access to the eu market. ghana is one of the major agri-food exporters in west africa. the agreement will increase ghana's liberalized exports to the eu from 35 to 80% of the total. the agreement with ghana appears to be the first step towards imposing market opening on the other west african states, with the eventual signing of a regional free trade partnership agreement. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ghana has decided to sign the 2007 economic partnership agreement, which provides duty-free access to the eu market (pending a regional agreement which is still to be signed). ghana is one of the major agri-food exporters in west africa. it also exports wood, gold, oil, cocoa. the agreement will increase ghana's liberalised exports to the eu from 35 to 80% of the total. ghana protects its sensitive agricultural and food products. this agreement with ghana seems to be a trojan horse aimed at forcing the other west african states to open their markets, with the signing of a regional partnership agreement which they refuse to sign for the time being. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this agreement with ghana seems to be a trojan horse aimed at forcing the other west african states to open their markets, with the signing of a regional partnership agreement which they are refusing to sign for the time being. i therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the stepping-stone agreement towards an eu-ghana economic partnership agreement. this partnership will give ghana preferential access to the european market. i am a consistent supporter of all the texts aimed at the development of africa, because it is by helping the development of this continent that we will enable its inhabitants to have prospects for the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-ghana economic partnership agreement. in view of the delay in signing the economic partnership agreement between the european union and west africa, ghana decided to proceed with the ratification of its 2007 stage two economic partnership agreement with the european union. i encourage the conclusion of this agreement and recall that our trade relations with africa are essential and in the interest of all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which constitutes the european parliament's approval of the interim agreement with ghana. the agreement takes account of the sensitivities of certain sectors and guarantees duty-free and quota-free access to the european union market. at the same time, it is opening up the ghanaian market to european products in an asymmetrical and gradual manner. it should be noted that in the event of market disturbances, the agreement also provides for safeguard clauses. it is therefore an agreement developing a gradual and asymmetrical liberalisation of trade between the eu and ghana.
in writing. ‒ ghana has decided to sign the 2007 economic partnership agreement, which provides duty-free access to the eu market. ghana is one of the major agri-food exporters in west africa. it also exports wood, gold, oil, cocoa. the agreement will increase ghana's 'liberalised' exports to the eu from 35 to 80% of the total. ghana protects its sensitive agricultural and food products. the agreement with ghana appears to be unbalanced and aims to force the other west african states to open their markets by signing a regional partnership agreement which they are refusing to sign for the time being. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2,150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3, 'security and citizenship', of eur 2,578 billion, and under heading 4, 'europe in the world', of eur 9,432 billion. it is therefore a question of mobilising this instrument of last resort in the face of 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. the money raised will, however, go to fund asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2,150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3, 'security and citizenship', of eur 2,578 billion, and under heading 4, 'europe in the world', of eur 9,432 billion. these colossal sums should, in my view, be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. worse, the money raised is supposed to finance the asylum and integration policy for illegal migrants, which is unacceptable. i therefore voted strongly against this mobilisation proposal: any money mobilised in relation to the migrant crisis should be used to send them back to their countries and prevent them from (returning).
in writing. ‒ this report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2016 proposes to mobilise in reality in 2017 the sum of €2,150 billion, to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of €2,578 billion and under heading 4 'europe in the world' of €9,432 billion. so here we have the problem of migrants, with policies that must therefore finance the policy of asylum and the integration of refugees. so naturally i voted against.
in writing. ‒ once again, the commission proposes to allocate 240 million to meet the needs of the migration crisis, at the expense of appropriations allocated to the administration. this is unacceptable, since i believe that these funds should be used exclusively to organise the return of these migrants to their countries of origin. for all these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise the 2016 contingency margin to increase commitment and payment appropriations by eur 240.1 million to respond to the current migration crisis. the european commission recommends that this instrument be activated to finance policies for the reception of illegal migrants. these amounts will also have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. it is simply unacceptable that the european union uses our taxes to finance the flood of migration that an overwhelming majority of our citizens strongly oppose. any money raised in the context of the migration crisis should be used to finance the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. at a time when our citizens, especially young people, are facing mass unemployment, the explosion of poverty and the increase in social inequalities, it is essential that all european funds be devoted to them! i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of the amending budgetary reports for the year 2016. it proposes a reduction of eur 7 284 million (surplus) in the economic, social and territorial cohesion component, thus reducing national contributions accordingly, and an increase of eur 50 million for the instrument for providing emergency assistance within the union, eur 130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and eur 70 million for the internal security fund (isf). finally, this draft amending budget concentrates in advance the provisioning of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) by redeploying eur 73.9 million in commitment appropriations from the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef-energy). considering that it is necessary to reallocate surplus appropriations to the urgent needs of the moment, namely investment, growth, security and migration, i would like to point out the risk of non-payments at the end of the year on the economic, social and territorial cohesion strand, which will have to be dealt with in the next budgetary years. i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the contingency margin for 2016. during 2016, we faced significant challenges in managing migration flows and the reception of refugees. this has resulted in the creation of new instruments, such as emergency aid, and higher than planned expenditure. therefore, in order to finance these actions, while preserving the other programmes of the european budget, it is necessary to mobilise the contingency margin in 2016.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2 150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of eur 2 578 billion and under heading 4 'europe in the world' of eur 9 432 billion. these proposals are intended to help tackle the migrant crisis, while any funding should prioritise the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the commission proposes to mobilise the 2016 contingency margin to provide €240.1 million in commitment appropriations to meet the needs arising from the migrant crisis.
in writing. ‒ i do not want to support a project whose ambition is to finance asylum and integration policies for so-called refugees, when the only obvious decision would be to mobilise these funds for the return of these populations to their countries of origin. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to mobilise the contingency margin to meet the needs arising from the migration and security crisis we are experiencing by increasing the commitment appropriations in the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016 beyond the ceiling of the initial commitments under the security heading.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the purpose of this text is to mobilise the contingency margin for 2016. this margin, amounting to eur 240.1 million in commitment appropriations, will finance the needs arising from the migrant crisis. however, this decision will lead to a reduction in the amounts allocated to the administration, which we regret. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the 2016 contingency margin to provide €240.1 million in commitment appropriations to meet the needs arising from the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is not conceivable for us. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2.15 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for security and citizenship expenditure of eur 2.578 billion and for europe in the world expenditure of eur 9.432 billion. it is therefore a question of mobilising this instrument of last resort in the face of unforeseen circumstances, in this case the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. your bad one.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the 2016 contingency margin to provide €240.1 million in commitment appropriations to meet the needs arising from the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. the money raised will, however, go to fund asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016. that report proposed to mobilise that margin to supplement the commitment appropriations for the expenditure of the budget line on security and citizenship for the financial year 2016. the amount of eur 240.1 million will be mobilised from this margin.
in writing. ‒ the eu must adapt its budget to its political priorities. currently, additional resources are needed to meet the needs arising from the migrant and refugee crisis. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which concerns the mobilisation of the contingency margin of eur 240.1 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under the heading 'security and citizenship' of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2,150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3, 'security and citizenship', of eur 2,578 billion, and under heading 4, 'europe in the world', of eur 9,432 billion. it is therefore a question of mobilising this instrument of last resort in the face of 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this amount will be used to finance support for measures to manage the migrant crisis. the money raised will thus go to finance the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of illegal migrants, which is unacceptable. i voted strongly against this mobilisation proposal: any money mobilised in relation to the migrant crisis should be to send them back to their countries and prevent them from (returning).
in writing. ‒ this report concerns draft amending budget no 4/2016 on the update of appropriations to take account of recent developments in the migration and security situation and the reduction of payment and commitment appropriations. the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this amount will be used to finance support for measures to manage the migrant crisis. i am totally opposed to the asylum and integration policies of refugees and i am convinced that the mass arrival of migrants in europe is a risk to our security, so naturally i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this text, which aims to adjust the budget by eur 250 million by mobilising the contingency margin to meet the needs of asylum and integration policy for migrants, is unacceptable in nature, as these sums should be reserved exclusively, in my view, for the financing of the return of these migrants to their countries of origin. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of the amending budgetary reports for the year 2016. it proposes a reduction of eur 7 284 million (surplus) in the economic, social and territorial cohesion component, thus reducing national contributions accordingly, and an increase of eur 50 million for the instrument for providing emergency assistance within the union, eur 130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and eur 70 million for the internal security fund (isf). finally, this draft amending budget concentrates in advance the provisioning of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) by redeploying eur 73.9 million in commitment appropriations from the energy component of the connecting europe facility (cef-energy). considering that it is necessary to reallocate surplus appropriations to the urgent needs of the moment, namely investment, growth, security and migration, i would like to point out the risk of non-payments at the end of the year on the economic, social and territorial cohesion strand, which will have to be dealt with in the next budgetary years. i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget (dab) no 4/2016. it updates the appropriations deployed in 2016 to take account of increases in expenditure on the security of european citizens and surpluses in payments due to significant delays in the implementation of union programmes whose management is shared with the member states. in particular, the draft amending budget incorporates into the european budget the expenditure relating to the reinforcement of frontex's manpower and resources, which made it possible to set up the european border and coast guard.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this is new funding for asylum policies, which we strongly oppose. on the contrary, we must encourage the return of illegal immigrants to their countries.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this text aims to adjust the eu's 2016 budget to deal with the refugee crisis by €250 million, through a mobilisation of the 2016 contingency margin.
in writing. ‒ i do not want to support a project whose ambition is to finance asylum and integration policies for so-called refugees, when the only obvious decision would be to mobilise these funds for the return of these populations to their countries of origin. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which increases funds for security (€70 million for the internal security fund) and migration (€130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund), as it makes it possible to deal with the current worsening situation in these areas. the draft amending budget also includes the creation of 50 additional posts for frontex and the extension of the european fund for strategic investments, both desirable measures.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this report concerns the change in the budget of the european union for 2016. the aim of this amendment is to use the budgetary margin of eur 250 million to finance the european immigration policy. we oppose this outrageous proposal.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to adjust the eu's 2016 budget to deal with the refugee crisis by €250 million, through a mobilisation of the 2016 contingency margin. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to finance the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which we do not think is possible. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to adjust the eu's 2016 budget to deal with the refugee crisis by €250 million, through a mobilisation of the 2016 contingency margin. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to adjust the eu's 2016 budget to deal with the refugee crisis by €250 million, through a mobilisation of the 2016 contingency margin. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on amending budget 4/2016. this amending budget provides for a reduction in the level of payment appropriations of eur 7284.3 million, due to delays in the implementation of certain operational programmes by certain member states. it also provides for an increase in the number of frontex staff, with the creation of 50 posts.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to adjust the eu's 2016 budget to deal with the refugee crisis by €250 million, through a mobilisation of the 2016 contingency margin. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. i vote against this bill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns amending budget no 4 to the 2016 general budget and which provides for an increase in commitment appropriations for the heading 'security and citizenship', in order to deal with this unprecedented migration crisis. i welcome the commission's proposal to use the revenue from additional fines to offset the expected revenue drop of eur 1.8 billion due to the depreciation of sterling against the euro. i would like to highlight one of the immediate negative effects of brexit.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget concerns the implementation of the new decision 2014/335/eu, euratom on the reform of the eu's own resources system, following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of that decision on 1 october 2016. this text is essentially technical and merely endorses decisions taken by the member states. moreover, its budgetary impact is zero. it should be noted, however, that this neutral impact is only due to the fact that the corrections granted to certain member states are offset by the other states, including france, but, as it is the simple consequence of negotiations between states, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this text is mainly technical and has no budgetary impact, but this is because the corrections granted to some states would be offset by others, including france. i think it is unreasonable to vote against it, however, because it merely ratifies decisions taken by the member states in the course of negotiations. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the implementation of the decision on the system of own resources, discussed in the context of the draft amending budget. decision 2014/335/eu concerns the reform of the eu's own resources system in the framework of euratom, following the ratification and entry into force of that decision on 1 october. i admit that this text merely consolidates decisions taken by the member states themselves, with no budgetary impact whatsoever. however, i would note that this lack of budgetary impact is due only to the corrections granted to some member states thanks to the compensation provided by others, notably france.
in writing. ‒ this amendment is only the result of negotiation between member states and, in this respect, i could be in favour of it. however, i note that the lack of impact on the overall budget is actually due to favours granted to some states and offset by others. i therefore abstain on this amending budget.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of the amending budgetary reports for the year 2016. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2016. in 2014, the european institutions decided to change the income system of the european union through a series of measures, such as the reduction of annual contributions based on the gross national income of some member states. this decision has been ratified and is now in force and, although it modifies the individual contributions of the member states, it has no effect on the amounts of the union's overall revenue and expenditure. it is nevertheless imperative to amend the budget to take account of the changes in the contributions of each member state to the european budget.
in writing. - i abstained on that report. this is the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom on the reform of the eu's own resources system, which entered into force on 1 october 2016. the budgetary impact of this text is zero. however, france is still in the net contributor category. we abstained, since this situation arises from negotiations between states.
in writing. ‒ abstention: essentially technical text which merely endorses decisions taken by the member states. moreover, its budgetary impact is zero.
in writing. ‒ this report is of little interest, given its essentially technical nature and its low budgetary impact, and the fact that it merely repeats decisions taken by the member states after negotiations. the latter, however, are sovereign and must be respected. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which implements a necessary decision on own resources. it involves changes in the contributions of the states, but does not affect the eu's revenue or expenditure.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. this budget change does not entail any additional costs for the member states and has no budgetary impact. the text is essentially technical and merely endorses decisions taken by the member states following intergovernmental negotiations.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget concerns the implementation of the new decision 2014/335/eu, euratom on the reform of the eu's own resources system, following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of that decision on 1 october 2016. this text is essentially technical and merely endorses decisions taken by the member states. moreover, its budgetary impact is zero. it should be noted, however, that if this impact is neutral, it is only because the corrections granted to certain member states are offset by the other states, including, of course, france. as it is the result of negotiations between states, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget concerns the implementation of the new decision 2014/335/eu, euratom on the reform of the eu's own resources system, following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of that decision on 1 october 2016. this text is essentially technical and merely endorses decisions taken by the member states. moreover, its budgetary impact is zero. however, it should be noted that this neutral impact is only due to the fact that the corrections granted to certain member states are offset by the other states, including france. it might be tempting to vote against this text, but as it is the mere consequence of negotiations between states, abstention seems more advisable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending budget 5/2016. the report shall aim to adjust the contributions of the different member states in the light of the adjustments for the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. this amending budget has no impact on the overall revenue and expenditure of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget concerns the implementation of the new decision 2014/335/eu, euratom on the reform of the eu's own resources system, following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of that decision on 1 october 2016. this text is essentially technical and merely endorses decisions taken by the member states. moreover, its budgetary impact is zero. however, it should be noted that this neutral impact is only due to the fact that the corrections granted to certain member states are offset by the other states, including france. it might be tempting to vote against this text, but as it is the mere consequence of negotiations between states, i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the final adoption of the 2016 eu amending budget, which incorporates the effect of adjustments to own resources in the revenue side.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case it is germany that is concerned, a country that is prospering on the backs of its southern neighbours thanks to the single currency and is thus sucking up their entire industry. germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates to respond to such problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity, which it frankly does not need. i abstained on that.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for germany. while i am usually in favour of the intervention of this mechanism and sympathize with the distress of the many germans affected by the floods, i believe that germany has more than enough resources to cope with this situation without receiving the eur 31 475 125 from the eusf. with a budget surplus of around €12 billion and public accounts showing a surplus of around €16.4 billion, i am confident that the german authorities will be able to meet the challenges posed by these floods, particularly in bavaria.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to authorise the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in support of germany, which suffered floods affecting lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn in may and june 2016. this natural disaster affected more than 47,000 people. in this context, the mobilisation of the eusf for germany amounts to eur 34 million. in view of the seriousness of the situation in germany following these floods and in view of the duty of the european union to provide relief to european territories in distress following natural disasters, i naturally voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help germany. the region of niederbayern in lower bavaria was hit by multiple severe floods in may and june 2016. since the request for assistance from the union solidarity fund, lodged on 19 august 2016, fulfils the conditions for granting, the european union should rapidly mobilise the necessary commitment and payment appropriations to assist the victims of these floods.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this intervention relates to floods in germany and is intended to provide funding of eur 31 475 125 from the european union solidarity fund. we are usually in favour of granting this type of exceptional aid. however, in the case of germany, a country which is prospering thanks to the euro at the expense of the other european states, we would not be able to guarantee additional aid.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the text concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf), for an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany.
in writing. ‒ it is quite unusual to see germany involved in a mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the european union is the only country in the world which is able to keep its neighbours afloat under the single currency and is able to take advantage of its advantageous position on the surface. it would then be right for it to draw on its resources fed by budget surpluses and low borrowing rates to meet needs it can meet without the superfluous help of european solidarity. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in order to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 31.5 million to provide financial assistance to germany following the floods that affected lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the latter have caused the destruction of public and private infrastructure, private homes and agriculture. seven people were killed and more than 47 000 people in lower bavaria were affected.
in writing. ‒ although this kind of mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the unemployed is usually not a problem, i abstained this time because, in this case, it is germany that is concerned. but this is a country that is prospering on the backs of its neighbours to the south through the single currency and thereby ruining all their industry. germany should use its budget surpluses to deal with these kinds of problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity which it frankly does not need and in which it participates very sparingly. however, i will not go so far as to vote against this report out of respect for our german allies in the afd.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is a financial instrument to help european countries affected by severe natural disasters. we are accustomed to supporting requests for the mobilisation of this fund to help citizens of member states who are in difficulty. however, this demand raises our reservations. the case in point concerns the mobilisation of eur 31.5 million for germany, the only country in the european union to benefit from the single currency and the single european market. germany could use its budget surpluses to address these kinds of problems instead of asking for funding from member states in crisis!
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case, surprising as it may seem, it is germany that is concerned, whereas everyone knows that it is the country that benefits almost exclusively from the single currency. germany could, of course, avoid calling on european solidarity. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case it is germany that is concerned, a country that is prospering on the backs of its southern neighbours thanks to the single currency and is thus sucking up their entire industry. germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates to respond to such problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity, which it frankly does not need.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case it is germany that is concerned, a country that is prospering on the backs of its southern neighbours thanks to the single currency and is thus sucking up their entire industry. germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates to respond to such problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity, which it frankly does not need. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the use of the eusf to help germany after the floods in lower bavaria in may and june 2016. this disaster caused the death of many people and the destruction of infrastructure, homes and farms. it is essential that this aid should be made available as soon as possible to help the german people cope with the difficulties.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget (dab) no 6 for the financial year 2016 covers the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf), amounting to eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case it is germany that is concerned, a country that is prospering on the backs of its southern neighbours thanks to the single currency and is thus sucking up their entire industry. germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates to respond to such problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity, which it frankly does not need. i abstained on that report.
in writing. i abstained on this text because i believe that germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates more to respond to these kinds of problems, rather than calling for a european solidarity that it frankly does not need.
in writing. ‒ in line with the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to assist germany, this report concerns a draft amending budget for the financial year 2016 to cover the release of these eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. i naturally offer my full support to the germans affected by the floods in lower bavaria (in particular the district of rottal-inn) in may and june 2016. however, as i have pointed out previously, it seems to me that germany should not be given priority for this aid. our neighbour has at his disposal about 12 billion euros in budget surpluses and public accounts showing a surplus of about 16.4 billion. given germany's tremendous economic dynamism, there is no doubt that the country will be able to cope with the consequences of this summer's natural disasters. i therefore preferred to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i am of course in favour of the release of these solidarity funds to compensate for the damage caused by floods in germany, but i cannot help but think that the german government could have used its own budget surpluses to deal with this crisis, rather than appeal to european solidarity, especially since germany's economic health is largely derived from the single currency to the detriment of the other countries of the euro area. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of the amending budgetary reports for the year 2016. it accompanies the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for germany, which suffered floods affecting lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn, in may and june 2016. this natural disaster affected more than 47,000 people. in this context, the mobilisation of the eusf for germany amounts to eur 34 million. in view of the seriousness of the situation in germany following these floods and in view of the duty of the european union to provide relief to european territories in distress following natural disasters, i naturally voted in favour of this report.
in writing. having voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide assistance to the german territories affected by the floods in may and june 2016, i also supported draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2016, which aims to enter this expenditure in the union budget. the rules on the use of the eusf require that its mobilisation be reflected in the union's annual budget. assistance to disaster areas is a priority, and so is its budgeting.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. as mentioned earlier, we are generally in favour of intra-european solidarity. as for germany, however, we believe that it must be able to cope with the flood-related costs on its own, given the benefits it derives from its membership of the european union and, in particular, of the euro.
in writing. ‒ abstention: draft amending budget (dab) no 6 for the financial year 2016 covers the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf), for an amount of eur 31.475.125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany.
in writing. ‒ it is quite unusual to see germany involved in a mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the european union is the only country in the world which is able to keep its neighbours afloat under the single currency and is able to take advantage of its advantageous position on the surface. it would then be right for it to draw on its resources fed by budget surpluses and low borrowing rates to meet needs it can meet without the superfluous help of european solidarity. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending budget, which accompanies the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund of eur 31 million to provide financial assistance to germany following the floods in lower bavaria in may and june 2016. the latter have caused the destruction of public and private infrastructure, private homes and agriculture. seven people were killed and more than 47 000 people in lower bavaria were affected.
in writing. ‒ although this kind of mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the unemployed is usually not a problem, i abstained this time because, in this case, it is germany that is concerned. but this is a country that is prospering on the backs of its neighbours to the south through the single currency and thereby ruining all their industry. germany should use its budget surpluses to deal with these kinds of problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity which it frankly does not need and in which it participates very sparingly. however, i will not go so far as to vote against this report out of respect for our german allies in the afd.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. the text provides for a change in the budget and is intended to cover the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of almost eur 31.5 million. this request raises our reservations, since it concerns germany, a country which is prospering on the backs of its neighbours to the south. although we feel sympathy for the german citizens who have suffered the consequences of the floods, we believe that the german government could find resources in its own budget to deal with such problems, instead of seeking them at the expense of the common budget.
in writing. ‒ this text deals with the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf), which itself deals with floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case, surprising as it may seem, it is germany that is concerned, whereas everyone knows that it is the country that benefits almost exclusively from the single currency. germany could, of course, avoid calling on european solidarity. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case it is germany that is concerned, a country that is prospering on the backs of its southern neighbours thanks to the single currency and is thus sucking up their entire industry. germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates to respond to such problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity, which it frankly does not need.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget (dab) no 6 for the financial year 2016 covers the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf), amounting to eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case it is germany that is concerned, a country that is prospering on the backs of its southern neighbours thanks to the single currency and is thus sucking up their entire industry. germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates to respond to such problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity, which it frankly does not need.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending budget 6/2016 on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help germany. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, which aims to support the development of the eu aid volunteers initiative.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget (dab) no 6 for the financial year 2016 covers the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf), amounting to eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations. this intervention concerns floods in germany. although this kind of fundraising is usually not a problem, it should be noted that in this case it is germany that is concerned, a country that is prospering on the backs of its southern neighbours thanks to the single currency and is thus sucking up their entire industry. germany could perhaps use its budget surpluses and exceptionally low borrowing rates to respond to such problems, rather than appealing for european solidarity, which it frankly does not need. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ following up on the report on the mobilisation of the eusf to help germany, which i supported, i voted in favour of this text which aims to amend the 2016 budget by including the proposal to mobilise the eusf. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the financial correction mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2,150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of eur 2,578 billion and under heading 4 'europe in the world' of eur 9,432 billion. the aim is therefore to mobilise this instrument of last resort in the face of 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to mobilise an instrument to deal with 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis. the sums, taken from the budget initially allocated to the administration, would be used to finance the policy of asylum and integration of 'refugees', in reality illegal economic migrants who are called upon to return as soon as possible to their country of origin. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed this report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2017. the 'unexpected' in question are just the commission's modest way of releasing more and more money for the management of the migrant crisis. since the eu is more than complicit in organising this submersion, it is rather cocky to speak of "unforeseen events". the commission is therefore proposing to use eur 2.150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship'. it also complements the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 4 'europe in the world' of eur 9.432 billion. when we see the sums that have already been mobilised to deal with this stalemate, and at the same time the situation of great precariousness in which millions of europeans find themselves, we realize the direction of the commission's priorities. the only responsible way to manage this would be to mobilise funds to ensure the return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ this contingency margin to deal with serious and unforeseen circumstances will therefore be used to facilitate the eu's immigration policy. it is obvious that this allocation, which will also be at the expense of the appropriations allocated to the administration, is unacceptable. i therefore vote against this commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise the 2017 contingency margin of eur 2.15 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' and heading 4 'europe in the world'. the european commission recommends that this instrument be activated to finance policies for the reception of illegal migrants. these amounts will also have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. it is simply unacceptable that the european union uses our taxes to finance the flood of migration that an overwhelming majority of our citizens strongly oppose. any money raised in the context of the migration crisis should be used to finance the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. at a time when our citizens, especially young people, are facing mass unemployment, the explosion of poverty and the increase in social inequalities, it is essential that all european funds be devoted to them! i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes, in order to finance additional and unforeseen commitments for the 2017 financial year, to mobilise the contingency margin of eur 1 164.4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure on internal security and current humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges. following an agreement in the conciliation committee, parliament obtained an increase in the contingency margin to eur 1 906.2 million to cover defence expenditure as well. considering that, in the face of current challenges, it is essential to mobilise these margins, and being reassured that this report compensates for the unallocated margins of the cap budget for the financial years 2016 and 2017 of 500 million each year, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the contingency margin in 2017. the european union and its member states continue to face serious security, migration and reception challenges. the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017 for security and citizenship and for europe's action in the world is therefore essential if the union is to be able to respond to any crisis or challenge in the year ahead.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the commission proposes €240 million in commitment appropriations to meet the needs arising from the migrant crisis. we believe that the funds allocated for this purpose should be used solely for the purpose of returning illegal immigrants to their country of origin.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the aim is to mobilise this instrument of last resort in the face of 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis.
in writing. ‒ i do not want to support a project whose ambition is to finance asylum and integration policies for so-called refugees, when the only obvious decision would be to mobilise these funds for the return of these populations to their countries of origin. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to mobilise the contingency margin of around eur 1.2 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for security expenditure in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 beyond the ceiling for commitments. i voted in favour of this call because i am aware, as are my colleagues, that the needs in these areas will increase due to the current internal security crises and current and future migration challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to mobilise the 'margin for contingencies' in the 2016 budget to allocate eur 240 million for the reception of migrants! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. i voted against this report. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european parliament and of the council. all these transfers will benefit from emergency programmes to finance measures to integrate refugees on european soil. however, no return support scheme is currently funded by the eu, which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2,150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of eur 2,578 billion and under heading 4 'europe in the world' of eur 9,432 billion. the aim is therefore to mobilise this instrument of last resort in the face of 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund asylum and refugee integration policy, which is not desirable. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2,150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of eur 2,578 billion and under heading 4 'europe in the world' of eur 9,432 billion. the aim is therefore to mobilise this instrument of last resort in the face of 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their country of origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin for the financial year 2017. this will be eur 1 906.2 million for the budget lines on citizenship, freedom, security, justice and the european union as a global actor.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the contingency margin for 2017 of eur 2,150 billion to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of eur 2,578 billion and under heading 4 'europe in the world' of eur 9,432 billion. the aim is therefore to mobilise this instrument of last resort in the face of 'unforeseen circumstances', in this case the migrant crisis. these amounts will have to be offset by a reduction in the appropriations allocated to administration. however, the money raised will go to fund the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their country of origin. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which provides for the mobilisation, in the context of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017, of the contingency margin of more than eur 1 billion in commitment appropriations beyond the ceiling for commitments of the heading 'security and citizenship' and of more than eur 700 million in commitment appropriations beyond the ceiling for commitments of the heading 'europe in the world'. we must anticipate the emergence of new financial needs in 2017 related to the migrant and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this amount will be used to finance support for measures to manage the migrant crisis. the money raised will thus go to finance the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. i voted against this unacceptable report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 at its maximum level, i.e. €530 million. this sum would be used to finance the policy of asylum and integration of 'refugees', in reality illegal migrants, economic migrants who are called upon to return as soon as possible to their countries of origin. any money spent on the migrant crisis should be spent on sending them home and preventing them from (returning). i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the commission's proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. this tool would be used up to €530 million, the maximum ceiling allowed. the commission is reminiscent of a teenager in crisis who, after spending all his pocket money on superfluous expenditure, comes to his parents to ask for a renewal. when we realize that, according to the 2014 report of the european observatory on homelessness, in france, the number of homeless people has increased by 44% in 11 years, from 80,000 to 150,000 people, and that these figures are not more glorious in the rest of the european union (44% in the czech republic, 29% in sweden, 21% in germany, 17% in the netherlands and 16% in denmark) in a word, when we see the state of impoverishment of our european populations , we can only be scandalized by the so-called migration policy of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am very much against the fact that money allocated to other purposes ends up financing the immigration policy of the european union. i therefore vote against this commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to activate the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the tune of €530 million, the maximum ceiling allowed, for the sole purpose of financing the reception of illegal migrants. these funds will finance, in particular, asylum policy and the integration of illegal migrants in the member states. it is simply unacceptable that the european union uses our taxes to finance the flood of migration that an overwhelming majority of our citizens strongly oppose. any money raised in the context of the migration crisis should be used to finance the return of illegal migrants to their countries of origin. at a time when our citizens, especially young people, are facing mass unemployment, the explosion of poverty and the increase in social inequalities, it is essential that all european funds be devoted to them! i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017, beyond the ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship), by eur 530 million, to finance measures in the field of migration, refugees and security. given the challenges we face, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the expenditure of the european union is fixed by a multiannual financial framework. the last was adopted in 2013 and provides for expenditure for the period 2014-2020. when expenditure exceeds forecasts and the margins of unforeseen events, the only way to finance it is to use the flexibility instrument. in order to ensure the sustainability of the funding of eu actions on the management of the migration crisis and the security challenges it faces, i supported the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, amounting to eur 530 million, from 2017 to 2020.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this is new funding for asylum policies, which we strongly oppose. on the contrary, we must encourage the return of illegal immigrants to their countries.
in writing. ‒ i do not want to support a project whose ambition is to finance asylum and integration policies for so-called refugees, when the only obvious decision would be to mobilise these funds for the return of these populations to their country of origin. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance budgetary measures to deal with the migration and security crisis in europe for an amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations. solving the migration crisis and ensuring the safety of europeans must be europe's priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it proposes to mobilise the 'margin for contingencies' in the 2016 budget to allocate eur 250 million to the reception of migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this text is to mobilise €530 million to finance measures to deal with the migrant crisis, including the integration of refugees, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this amount will be used to finance support for measures to manage the migrant crisis. the money raised will be used to finance asylum and refugee integration policy. we are firmly opposed to this. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this amount will be used to finance support for measures to manage the migrant crisis. the money raised will thus go to finance the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their country of origin.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2017 to the maximum allowable ceiling of eur 530 million. this amount will be used to finance support for measures to manage the migrant crisis. the money raised will thus go to finance the asylum policy and the integration of refugees, which is unacceptable. any money raised should be used exclusively for the return of illegal migrants to their country of origin. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ protecting our borders and managing the migration crisis are priority issues for the european union. i voted for this report which provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to achieve these objectives.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to mobilise eur 50 million from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) which can be used by member states or acceding states that have been affected by a natural disaster. this mobilisation is not linked to a particular disaster but will allow the entry of the eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the year 2017. this will allow funds to be mobilised more quickly and efficiently if needed. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which would make it possible to mobilise eur 50 million from the european union solidarity fund, which is made available to member states or those acceding states that would be affected by natural disasters. it is only a question of entering them in the general budget of the union in 2017 as commitment and payment appropriations, which would make them much more quickly mobilisable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the purpose of advance payments under the general budget of the union for 2017. the text provides for eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to the general budget of the eu, in particular in the event of an unforeseeable natural disaster in a member state. it is for this minimum of solidarity and to deal with this type of emergency situation, in a rapid and efficient way, that cooperation between european nations is necessary. the recent earthquakes in italy, for example, call for effective and concerted management of the economic, social and humanitarian consequences.
in writing. ‒ since this provision will make it easier to use european funds, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to facilitate the execution of advance payments in the context of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf). the text calls for €50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to be entered in the general budget of the union, so that, if necessary, funds can be released more quickly in the event of an exceptional natural disaster. we consider the eusf to be the expression of european solidarity and to be a significant financial support for national and local authorities in regions affected by this type of disaster. in this context, it seems to us quite appropriate to simplify the operation of the eusf and to facilitate the execution of payments. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 the amount of eur 50 million for the payment of advances by means of appropriations entered in the general budget of the union, in particular in connection with the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. i supported this report.
in writing. i supported the provision of an additional €50 million for the european union solidarity fund (eusf). the eusf is used to provide assistance to victims of natural disasters, but its mobilisation is a process that can take time in the face of the urgency of the situation. as a precaution, it is therefore essential that this european financial instrument has sufficient funds to provide an advance to the affected territories, even before the decision to mobilise the eusf is taken.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the aim of this text is to mobilise eur 50 million from the european union solidarity fund (eusf), which can be used by member states or acceding states that have been affected by a natural disaster. these funds are not specifically earmarked for any specific purpose, but are intended to deal with a case of force majeure, which we believe is useful.
in writing. ‒ i think it is natural to support a report which will enable eusf funds to be mobilised more quickly and efficiently in the event of a natural disaster in a member state. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which includes in the eu budget the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of timely and disaster-related advances next year, in order to speed up the disbursement of aid to the affected countries by making an advance payment before the final allocation decision.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this text is essentially technical and merely endorses decisions taken by the member states. moreover, its budgetary impact is zero.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to mobilise €50 million from the european union solidarity fund (eusf). this fund enables member states affected by a particular disaster to have recourse to temporary aid. in this case, this mobilisation is not linked to a disaster but allows the amount to be entered in commitment and payment appropriations and, therefore, to be able to access it more quickly and efficiently in case of need.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to mobilise eur 50 million from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) which can be used by member states or acceding states that have been affected by a natural disaster. this mobilisation is not linked to a particular disaster but will allow the €50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to be entered in the general eu budget for 2017. this will allow funds to be mobilised more quickly and efficiently where necessary. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to mobilise eur 50 million from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) which can be used by member states or acceding states that have been affected by a natural disaster. this mobilisation is not linked to a particular disaster but will allow the entry of the eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the year 2017. this will allow funds to be mobilised more quickly and efficiently if needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund for the purpose of paying advances. this solidarity fund enables the european union to respond quickly and effectively to an emergency situation linked to the occurrence of a natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to mobilise eur 50 million from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) which can be used by member states or acceding states that have been affected by a natural disaster. this mobilisation is not linked to a particular disaster but will allow the entry of the eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations in the general budget of the union for the year 2017. this will allow funds to be mobilised more quickly and efficiently if needed. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the eusf, i voted in favour of the report to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 and subsequent years the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the rapid and efficient disbursement of advances in the event of a disaster in the following year. this will speed up the disbursement of aid to the affected countries by providing an advance before the final allocation decision is taken, and thus enhance the effectiveness of the eusf.
in writing. ‒ this text is a compromise text between the 2017 budget as voted by meps on 26 october and the council's initial proposals. most budget lines are thus retained. parliament's initial ambition is revised downwards. in detail, the appropriations for migration and security are increasing by 11.3% and those for growth and employment (including erasmus+), which are the priorities of this budget, by 12%. eur 500 million is being mobilised to help agricultural sectors affected by crises, notably the dairy sector. the budget also endorses and welcomes the trust funds and the facility for refugees in turkey, which is not acceptable. in conclusion, while this budget is much better than the one adopted by the european parliament on 26 october, it is still excessive (the 5% reduction target for staff in the administrations, which was agreed in 2013 and is due to expire in 2017, for example, is not being seriously followed up) and is particularly immigration-oriented. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this budget, although better than the one adopted on 26 october 2016, is still excessive and particularly immigration-oriented. i voted against this text which does not take seriously certain areas where real savings can be made, some of which are already clearly identified, such as the 5% reduction in staff in the administrations, decided in 2013 and still very little followed up, with the deadline coming in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the 2017 budget, which is a compromise between the positions of the european parliament and the council. the excessive ambitions of parliament were indeed reduced to eur 157.857 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 134.490 billion in payment appropriations, compared with the parliament's initial position of eur 161.8 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 136.8 billion in payment appropriations. however, there was an increase of 1.9% in commitment appropriations compared to 2016. moreover, the funds raised are used only to finance the migration stagnation caused by the irresponsibility of the european commission's policy in this area. the budget allocated to migration and security increased by 11.3%. the priority of european decision-makers is more in the integration of migrants than in the fight against unemployment of europeans. finally, what has happened to the 5% reduction target for staff in the european administrations? it is supposed to be achieved in 2017, but it seems to have been swept under the carpet by the crazy europeanist ambitions.
in writing. ‒ this draft joint budget between parliament and the council is certainly smaller than the initial budget, which is a good thing, but the part devoted to migration is up by 11.3%, total expenditure remains excessive and no follow-up to the objective of reducing the number of staff in the administration is specified. i therefore vote against this joint text, which is also a statement of support for the facilities provided for refugees from turkey, which is totally unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ this is a compromise text from the conciliation committee between parliament and the council. the report sets the amount of commitment appropriations for 2017 at eur 157,857 billion, an increase of 1,9% compared to 2016. payment appropriations fell by 6.5% to eur 134.49 billion as a result of the completion of the programmes under the 2007/2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) and the unfinished programmes under the mff 2014/2020. although this joint project allocates an additional €500 million to the agricultural sector, it does not tackle the root causes of the problems faced by producers, namely the fall in the price of raw materials, the russian embargo and unfair international competition exacerbated by the proliferation of free trade agreements. the text also provides for an increase of 11.3% in the budget for the reception of illegal migrants. this is a real scandal in view of the dramatic rise in unemployment and poverty rates, especially among young people, in the member states of the european union. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament and the council formally adopted the budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. the budget amounts to eur 157 857.8 million in commitments and eur 134 490.4 million in payments. the funding for many programmes which are very important for the citizens of europe has been increased. an additional €200 million has been added to the horizon 2020 programmes for the connecting europe facility, erasmus+ and cosme. €500 million was added to the youth employment initiative. in addition, farmers affected by the russian embargo will receive €500 million in aid. the resources of the new european border and coast guard agency have been considerably increased. this budget meets the european union's needs for growth, employment and management of the agricultural and migration crises. i voted in favour of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2017.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017. the overall amount of commitment appropriations was set at eur 157.86 billion. parliament called for better support for young people, on employment, while adding additional funds to strengthen key initiatives for smes and on security and migration. he also secured an increase in funds for the management of agricultural crises. considering that the budget is the union's weapon to meet the challenges of today and the expectations of european citizens, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, approved by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure. the 2017 eu budget includes a substantial additional allocation for internal and external aspects of migration, additional posts for the european police office (europol) and the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) and increased commitment and payment appropriations for the european asylum support office (easo). in addition to security and migration aspects, it is essential that the budgetary resources available are used to the best of their ability to address the problem of youth unemployment and in particular the youth employment initiative.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this is a compromise text between the council and the european parliament on the 2017 budget. most budget lines were retained, with commitment appropriations increasing by 1.9% and payment appropriations decreasing by 6.5%. there has been an increase in the funds allocated to migration. there was no significant change in the budget, which remained on the rise. in particular, the 5% reduction target for staff expenditure was not seriously pursued.
in writing. ‒ this budget is an improvement on the previous one, following a downward revision of parliament's ambition. however, it is not acceptable to vote in favour of a draft budget with a strong immigration dimension and which is still too excessive. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european union budget for the year 2017. after a first proposal in october, in which we reiterated the council's unjustified cuts, the final draft respects the priorities we had put forward by allocating more money to youth, employment, security or agriculture. we have made this 2017 budget a political tool, in line with the challenges and crises of the present.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the adoption of the 2017 budget of the european parliament because it is immigrationist. the commission also notes that the union industry has not been able to fully recover from the past injury.
in writing. ‒ at the second plenary session in october, we adopted in the european parliament a more ambitious and voluntary vision of the draft eu budget for 2017 than the one originally presented by the commission. the budgetary negotiations between parliament and the european council have preserved the three priorities defined by my group, the epp: employment, youth and the migration crisis. for example, an additional €15 million was allocated to erasmus+, a programme that supports the mobility of young europeans in education and training. the budgets of agencies that play a major role in our security, such as eurojust, europol and the european asylum support office, have also been strengthened. the same applies to the new european border and coast guard, since the previous appropriations for frontex have been doubled. an additional €600 million has been earmarked for the milk sector to provide an effective response to the crisis affecting our producers. i therefore voted in favour of the budgetary agreement between the european parliament and the council of ministers, which sets the eu budget for the year 2017.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text is a compromise between the 2017 budget as voted by meps and the council's initial proposals. compared to 2016, commitment appropriations increased by 1.9% and payment appropriations decreased by 6.5%. this text welcomes the trust funds set up for refugees in turkey, which we oppose. in addition, this budget, although better than the one adopted by parliament on 26 october, is excessive and does not implement structured follow-up in certain areas, which we regret.
in writing. ‒ this text is drawn up by the conciliation committee between the european parliament and the council, and is therefore a compromise text between the 2017 budget as voted by meps and the council's initial proposals. most budget lines are thus retained. the parliament's initial ambition was therefore revised downwards, and the parliament failed to increase these appropriations by between eur 1.4 billion and eur 0.7 billion compared to the council's initial proposals. in detail, the resources devoted to migration and security are increasing by 11.3% and by 12% for growth and employment, which are the priorities of this budget. the budget also welcomes the trust funds and the facility for refugees in turkey. in conclusion, while this budget is much better than the one adopted by the european parliament on 26 october, it is still excessive (the 5% reduction target in the administrative staff decided in 2013 and due to expire in 2017, for example, is not seriously monitored). i have therefore been against this text.
in writing. ‒ while this budget is much better than the one adopted by the european parliament on 26 october, it is still excessive (the 5% reduction target in the administrations, agreed in 2013 and due to expire in 2017, for example, is not being seriously monitored) and is particularly immigration-oriented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2017 budgetary procedure. the political agreement between parliament, the council and the commission on the budget, which was reached on 17 november, is set out below. this budget amounts to eur 157 857.8 million in commitment appropriations and eur 134 490.4 million in payment appropriations. this budget will make it possible, in particular, to strengthen the staff and resources of frontex at a time when the european union is facing an unprecedented migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ thanks to the mobilisation of the socialist meps, we have secured an additional €500 million for the youth employment initiative, which should be a political priority of the european union. i am also very pleased that we have managed to secure eur 50 million for the erasmus+ programme to help students study and work in another member state. i therefore voted in favour of this joint draft budget for 2017.
in writing. ‒ while this budget is much better than the one adopted by the european parliament on 26 october, it is still excessive (the 5% reduction target in the administrations, agreed in 2013 and due to expire in 2017, for example, is not being seriously monitored) and is particularly immigration-oriented. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the budgetary procedure for 2017. the overall amount of the 2017 budget is set at eur 157857,8 million for commitment appropriations and eur 134490,4 million for payment appropriations. i fully support the mobilisation of additional resources to boost growth and create jobs, especially for young people, through increased funding for key schemes such as horizon 2020, erasmus+ or cosme. additional posts are also planned for europol, eurojust and easo (european asylum support office), as well as a budgetary increase for migration-related funds. this will allow us to better control the migration crisis we are currently experiencing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2017 budget, which is the result of the conciliation agreement between the council and parliament, which sets three priorities: boosting growth, creating jobs, especially for young people, and better managing the refugee crisis. i supported this text because parliament has obtained an additional €500 million over the initial draft for the youth employment initiative. this budget also allows the union to step up its efforts to promote employment and competitiveness by providing an additional €200 million for the cosme programme for smes, horizon 2020 and erasmus+ to encourage student mobility. on the other hand, this budget enables the union to have an adequate level of funding to respond effectively to the refugee crisis, both in its external dimension to tackle the root causes of such migration and in its internal dimension. finally, this budget also gives priority to the security of the union with the increase in the amounts allocated to europol and eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i participated in the negotiations on the 2017 budget, and despite an under-sized budgetary framework since 2014, our focus was primarily on responding to the emergencies: jobs, growth and youth. parliament has managed to unlock new resources, i.e. fresh money instead of the usual budget cuts and reallocation. + €500 million for the youth employment initiative, + €200 million for growth support programmes and additional funds for migration and security. it should be noted that the expenditure ceilings have been reached for most headings, although the needs to be met remain immense. it shows that the budgetary framework of the european union is inadequate to the challenges of today and that it needs to be thoroughly revised. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. it must be flexible and flexible to enable all unused margins to be mobilised to meet the major challenges, notably jobs in sustainable growth. the budgetary battle is one of the keys to the union's future.
in writing. ‒ between august and october 2016, 3 earthquakes struck the central apennines, killing 290 people and injuring over 400. this disaster resulted in the destruction of homes and historic buildings, which had a very strong impact on the local tourist economy. in all, 130 square kilometers were affected by this terrible earthquake. i voted in favour of the northern league motion for a resolution which is based on three points: to make the use of the eusf more flexible so that it can intervene more efficiently and less bureaucratically; to amend the regional operational programmes to allow regions to use the erdf and the esf to cover reconstruction and earthquake risk prevention expenditure; exclude from the calculation of the public deficit and from the scope of the state aid rules all expenditure or tax benefits incurred for the reconstruction of the affected regions. i also voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the efdd, which, although less complete, is in the right direction, particularly on the possibility of reprogramming the use of european funds, and in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the alde/ecr/s&d/epp/greens/gue/ngl group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it corresponds more closely to the europe we want in the national front and our group in parliament, europe of nations and freedoms: that of cooperation and mutual aid between sovereign nations. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) provides compensation for damage to property or loss of income following a natural disaster. the motion for a resolution is a step in the right direction, since it proposes to make the use of the eusf more flexible, which is in the interests of france: for example, the floods in the south of our country are typical of events that could mobilise the eusf.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution tabled by the enf group on the situation in italy, which is more comprehensive, but i also voted in favour of the joint resolution of the other political groups. the enf resolution goes further, in my view, in proposing common sense on the management of natural disasters by national and local authorities. we have therefore asked for the use of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to be made more flexible so that it can intervene more quickly and more effectively. it should be remembered that, so far, he can only play in the six months following the natural disaster; the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of the granting of state aid to the construction of a new railway line in the territory of the member states. we would also like the regions to be allowed to use the erdf and the esf to cover the costs of reconstruction and earthquake prevention. finally, it seems to us essential that all expenditure or tax benefits linked to the reconstruction of the disaster areas be excluded from the public deficit and the scope of the state aid regulation. human beings cannot always be regarded as a simple variable for economic adjustment!
in writing. ‒ these three motions for resolutions are a step in the right direction in facilitating the use of these european solidarity funds. i will, however, remain vigilant about the drift towards using these funds to finance migration policy, particularly in italy, greece and cyprus. i therefore vote in favour of the enf resolution. i vote for the efdd resolution. i am voting in favour of the resolution by the alde/ecr/s&d/epp/greens/ngl group.
in writing. ‒ italy has recently been struck by a series of violent earthquakes which have devastated mainly the centre of the country, leaving more than 400 people injured and 290 dead. these quakes have severely damaged cities, regional and local infrastructure and destroyed historical heritage properties. the european union must help italy to the extent of its capabilities. we must use european instruments such as the european union solidarity fund to support italy. i offer my support to the victims of these earthquakes. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution deals with the situation in italy following the earthquakes that struck it. the resolution of course takes note of the italian government's request for assistance from the european union solidarity fund and asks the european commission to deal swiftly with this request in order to act even more effectively with the affected territories. given the seriousness of the situation in italy and the duty of the european union to provide relief to european territories in distress following natural disasters, i naturally voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported the parliament's resolution on the situation in italy after the earthquakes. since 14 august 2016, italy has been struck by four powerful earthquakes that have killed 290 people, injured 400 others and displaced 100,000 residents. the european union needs to draw all the lessons from this situation in order to improve both the speed and the content of the assistance it provides, as well as to optimise the coordination between european funds, in order to increase efficiency. more urgently, as winter approaches, i join the call to the commission to use all means at its disposal to help the italian authorities to provide shelter for the homeless.
in writing. ‒ i voted for all these texts. between august and october 2016, three earthquakes struck the central apennines, killing 290 people and injuring more than 400. the eusf shall provide compensation for material damage to assets or loss of income due to the total or partial suspension of activity for a period not exceeding six months from the occurrence of the natural disaster. these three proposals, including one tabled by the northern league, are intended to make this fund more flexible and to allow the use of the esf and the erdf in the event of a natural disaster, which we believe is useful and appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced resolution, which expresses the union's solidarity with italy and the victims of the successive earthquakes that have struck that country. the text emphasises prevention and calls for the best possible use of the european union's solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is a step in the right direction in proposing to make the use of the eusf more flexible. this is in france's interests, because our country will be able to benefit from it in dealing with the floods which have hit the south of france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. the resolution aims to simplify the use of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to make it more efficient and less bureaucratic. the text was put to the vote of the european parliament following the earthquakes that struck italy between august and october 2016, killing 290 people and injuring more than 400. the disaster also caused the destruction of homes and historic buildings, which had a very strong impact on the local tourism sector. the rapporteur calls for more flexibility in the use of the eusf and for the eu to accept the amendment of the regional operational programmes to allow regions to use the european regional development fund (erdf) to cover reconstruction and earthquake risk prevention expenditure. we support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ the eusf shall provide compensation for material damage to assets or loss of income due to the total or partial suspension of activity for a period not exceeding six months from the occurrence of the natural disaster. after this period, any subsidy from the eusf may be considered as state aid. it is the only european fund that reflects genuine european solidarity in the face of natural disasters, hence its legitimacy. however, its raison d'être is under threat as the european commission is desperately seeking to use the eusf to help member states finance policies to welcome migrants, notably in italy, greece and cyprus. in support of greater flexibility, which is necessary for the flood tragedies in our southern regions of france, i voted in favour of the joint resolution, despite a europe-oriented vocabulary, and of that of our allies in the lega, which is very balanced.
in writing. ‒ between august and october 2016, 3 earthquakes struck the central apennines, killing 290 people and injuring over 400. this disaster resulted in the destruction of homes and historic buildings, which had a very strong impact on the local tourist economy. in all, 130 square kilometers were affected by this terrible earthquake. the eusf shall provide compensation for material damage to assets or loss of income due to the total or partial suspension of activity for a period not exceeding six months from the occurrence of the natural disaster. after this period, any subsidy from the eusf may be considered as state aid. it is the only european fund that expresses genuine european solidarity in the face of natural disasters, and that is why it is legitimate. however, its raison d'être is under threat as the european commission is desperately seeking to use the eusf to help member states finance policies to welcome migrants, notably in italy, greece and cyprus. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ these proposals are common sense proposals and are based on three points: - to make the use of the eusf more flexible so that it can intervene more efficiently and less bureaucratically; - to amend the regional operational programmes to allow regions to use the erdf and the esf to cover reconstruction and seismic risk prevention expenditure; - to exclude from the calculation of the public deficit and the scope of the state aid rules any expenditure or tax benefits incurred for the reconstruction of disaster-stricken regions. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the situation in italy after the earthquakes. the text, in addition to expressing the european union's solidarity with italy, stresses the preventive role of the states in order to limit the consequences of such natural disasters. it also called for the european union's solidarity fund and the structural funds to be used more effectively to help the affected populations.
in writing. ‒ between august and october 2016, three earthquakes struck the central apennines, killing 290 people and injuring more than 400. this disaster resulted in the destruction of homes and historic buildings, which had a very strong impact on the local tourist economy. in all, 130 square kilometers were affected by this terrible earthquake. the solidarity fund is one of the few manifestations of genuine solidarity between the states of the european union, and i therefore vote in favour of this legitimate aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the mobilisation of the eusf to provide assistance to italy following the devastating earthquake that hit central italy on 24 august 2016 and the three other strong earthquakes that struck several italian regions on 26 and 30 october. we must mobilize so that the italian people can face the difficulties, as quickly as possible and with dignity, after this series of unprecedented disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which shows the european parliament's solidarity with italy, which is constantly suffering from earthquakes. these earthquakes not only damaged local and regional infrastructure and destroyed a rich cultural and historical heritage, but also claimed the lives of italians. the text first of all recalls that the european union stands by italy and the families affected by these natural disasters. it is crucial to highlight and applaud the relentless efforts of the rescue units, civil protection and the many volunteers in italian cities, such as amatrice, to help the affected families. it should be noted that italy has submitted a request to the european union solidarity fund to release funds for the care of victims and the reconstruction of destroyed towns and sites. finally, i supported this resolution which calls for better cooperation with local authorities and an optimisation of european funds for the prevention of natural disasters or investment in earthquake-resistant buildings.
in writing. ‒ between august and october 2016, 3 earthquakes struck the central apennines, killing 290 people and injuring over 400. this disaster resulted in the destruction of homes and historic buildings, which had a very strong impact on the local tourist economy. in all, 130 square kilometers were affected by this terrible earthquake. the eu solidarity fund shall provide compensation for material damage to assets or loss of income due to the total or partial suspension of activity for a period not exceeding six months from the occurrence of the natural disaster. after this period, any subsidy from the eusf may be considered as state aid. it is the only european fund that expresses genuine european solidarity in the face of natural disasters and that is why it is legitimate whatever our political position towards the european institutions. however, beware in the future, as its raison d'être is threatened by the european commission, which is desperately seeking to use the eusf to help member states finance policies to welcome migrants, notably in italy, greece and cyprus. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants to tighten up the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001 because of the serious conflicts of interest recently revealed. the proposal would require commissioners to declare all their interests in companies, including family interests, and membership of ngos or lobbying associations. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is considering tightening the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001, following the serious conflicts of interest recently revealed. i voted in favour of this proposal which would force commissioners to declare all their interests in companies and their links with ngos or lobbies.
‒ i am rarely so enthusiastic about a parliamentary report, but here my colleague pascal durand has done a remarkable job. it is a remarkable work in its objectivity, neutrality, rationality and constructive character. the current code of conduct for commissioners is certainly not perfect, but it has at least the merit of existing. it has been regularly updated since 2004, in 2011 and now in 2016, and it is constantly improving and getting closer to reality. the proposals by pascal durand, which were approved by the legal affairs committee, are indeed in that direction and i think that the inclusion of the family interests referred to in point 1.6 of the code of conduct for commissioners in the declarations of financial interests, in view of the ambiguous past situation of commissioner canete, is an excellent initiative. make no mistake, this is an important case. the credibility of the european union as a whole is at stake.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which calls for a stricter code of conduct for european commissioners. the infamous 'conflict of interest' cases involving current and former commissioners highlight the urgency of establishing a minimum of transparency and ethics within the all-powerful commission. the slippery goldman sachs slipper of josé manuel barroso, former president of the european commission, is just the tree that hides the forest. in 2006, 77 meps tabled a motion of censure questioning the links between josé manuel barroso and the latsis group (banking, oil, real estate, shipbuilding) owned by greek billionaire spiros latsis. dusan sidjanski, president of the european cultural centre (the mission of which is to promote european federalism) funded by the latsis group, was appointed 'special adviser to the commission' by josé manuel barroso to promote the 'europe of the regions'. it is therefore more than enough that, as this report recommends, commissioners should be obliged to declare all their interests in companies, as well as their potential membership of ngos or associations that lobby public authorities.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants to tighten up the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001 because of the serious conflicts of interest recently revealed. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the political will of jean-claude juncker to strengthen the code of conduct for the president of the european commission and commissioners. we must prove to the citizens of europe that our institutions are guided by sound ethical principles. it is important that our citizens have confidence in the european institutions. the report stresses the importance of the declaration of the financial interests of the commissioners, which aims to ensure their independence. the text stresses the need to improve the code of conduct to ensure the confidence of european citizens. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to thoroughly review the code of conduct for commissioners in order to verify that there is no conflict of interest among commissioners, not only when they take up their duties and throughout their term of office, but also afterwards, with a transition period for former commissioners being reduced from 18 months to 3 years. it is essential for me that citizens can trust the eu institutions. it is simply unacceptable for the commissioners to hide their personal interests or those of their family members. recent scandals, such as the panama papers and the barroso affair, have once again shown the need to react and regain the confidence of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to present guidelines for identifying potential conflicts of interest and a reform of the code of conduct for commissioners. the report also proposes greater involvement of the european parliament, giving it real powers to scrutinise financial statements, and suggests that the juri committee could ask the president of the european commission to withdraw its confidence in the commissioner concerned if it considers that there is a conflict of interest. considering it essential to ensure that european commissioners are exemplary in terms of conflict of interest during their term of office, and to strengthen controls and the transition period after the end of their term of office, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the report on the declarations of interests of members of the commission sets out guidelines to facilitate the procedures for verifying such declarations made by commissioners. in order to identify any potential conflict of interest, the report provides in particular that the analysis of the declarations must be substantial and linked to the portfolio of the commissioner-designate. the european parliament will be more involved in the process, especially in the event of a commissioner's portfolio change. in view of the recent cases involving certain commissioners, including mr barroso, and in order to raise the level of ethics and transparency, i voted in favour of this report, although some of the proposals are a bit excessive.
in writing. ‒ i voted for these texts. this is a strengthening of the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001. in particular, commissioners should declare all interests they have in companies, including family interests, and membership of ngos or associations playing a lobbying role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pascal durand report, which aims to strengthen the constraints on the code of conduct for commissioners, despite its shortcomings. for example, the analysis of the absence of conflict is based on a declaration of financial interests by the commissioner. it therefore depends on the good faith and sincerity of the declarant. however, it was possible to measure the importance of the selective amnesia that some candidates could suffer during this exercise. and parliament has no means of investigation. the little secrets of mrs neelie kroes were thus revealed only incidentally, on the occasion of the 'bahamas leaks'. the extension of the reporting obligation to spouses and dependent children, as well as to non-financial interests, such as membership of a secret organisation which 'professionally' interferes with the exercise of the functions of public bodies, will not change this constructive vice. secondly, there is no actual sanction for lying, not even an ethical requirement to resign, and the only consequence of a conflict of interest is a change of portfolio. finally, the code of conduct for commissioners remains defined and adopted by the commissioners themselves. it's like the criminals writing the criminal code.
in writing. ‒ following the discovery of conflicts of interest involving commissioners, i welcome the initiative to tighten their code of conduct by requiring them to declare all interests concerning them. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes guidelines for the determination of conflicts of interest and a reform of the code of conduct for members of the commission. in the current context of mistrust, it is important to change certain practices in order to prevent possible conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it seeks to tighten up the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2011. but it is necessary, given the many financial scandals in which commissioners or former commissioners are involved.
in writing. ‒ citizens rightly want greater transparency in the institutions. as recent cases have revealed the activities of certain commissioners, sometimes not in line with their duties, we have taken up this matter with the aim of facilitating the procedures for verifying their declarations of interests. this own-initiative report recalls that the analysis of declarations must be substantial and linked to the portfolio of the commissioner-designate, in order to identify any potential conflict of interest. this means in practice that parliament is more involved in the process, especially in the event of a change of portfolio. it is also suggested that the president of parliament should refer to the european commission the case of a commissioner for whom a potential conflict of interest has been identified. the report also calls on the commission to reform the code of conduct for commissioners in order to raise the level of ethics and transparency, as called for by parliament in various resolutions. i voted in favour of this report, but i would also like to point out that we must not fall into the opposite trap, that of suspicion, which is often created by an overly aggressive policy of transparency.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the aim of this text is to amend the code of conduct of commissioners to prevent them from being in a conflict of interest situation, as is the case today. the text calls for a new measure requiring commissioners to declare all their interests (businesses, family interests, membership of ngos or lobby groups), which we support.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants to tighten up the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001 because of the serious conflicts of interest recently revealed. the proposal would require commissioners to declare all their interests in companies, including family interests, and membership of ngos or lobbying associations. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants to tighten up the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001 because of the serious conflicts of interest recently revealed. the proposal would require commissioners to declare all their interests in companies, including family interests, and membership of ngos or lobbying associations. i'm all for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which recalls that the analysis of the declarations of interests of members of the commission must be put in perspective with the commissioner's portfolio. this will help to avoid conflicts of interest and to remove suspicions that could be raised against a member of the european commission. the report also calls for the role of parliament to be strengthened in this process of transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of increased controls on the declarations of interests of european commissioners. these measures should help to increase the transparency of the european institutions. the socialist group has succeeded in obtaining, among other things, that european commissioners are obliged to declare the financial interests of their family members.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants to tighten up the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001 because of the serious conflicts of interest recently revealed. the proposal would require commissioners to declare all their interests in companies, including family interests, and membership of ngos or lobbying associations. i shall of course vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ following the particularly significant practical difficulties in the appointment procedure of the last european commission, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to facilitate the procedures for verifying commissioners' declarations of interests. the committee recalls that the analysis of declarations by the competent parliamentary committee must be substantial and linked to the portfolio of the commissioner-designate in order to identify any potential conflict of interest. we also call for a reform of the code of conduct for commissioners to raise the level of ethics and transparency. finally, we voted in favour of extending the 'transition' period during which former commissioners cannot hold a private sector post in their field of expertise from 18 months to 36 months.
in writing. ‒ following the cases of barroso, former commission president who joined the bank of the goldman sachs affair, and neelie kroes, an offshore company administrator in the bahamas while she was a european commissioner, the european parliament sends a strong message to reform the code of conduct for commissioners to prevent conflicts of interest, prevent indecent behaviour and enhance transparency, ethics and integrity of commissioners. the report also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the rules on the protection of personal data. meps also want to see a more effective control of the eu's external borders, in particular by giving the commission the power to make recommendations to end a conflict of interest or to find the commissioner-designate incapable of performing his duties. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on the declarations of interests of members of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european commission to review its code of conduct for commissioners to ensure that declarations of interests provide a comprehensive overview of the financial situation and activities of the commissioner and his entourage. the text also calls for an extension of the 'transition' period, during which former commissioners may not hold a private sector post in a field related to their former portfolio, from one and a half to a minimum of three years. it is important that the declarations of financial interests of commissioners include all the interests of commissioners, over the last two years, as shareholders, members of boards of directors, advisers, consultants or members of associated foundations. finally, the text provides for an increased role for the european parliament's committee on legal affairs, in particular to analyse declarations of financial interests and potential cases of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants to tighten up the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2001 because of the serious conflicts of interest recently revealed. the proposal would require commissioners to declare all their interests in companies, including family interests, and membership of ngos or lobbying associations. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wishes the commission to work closely with the member states to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the union. in other words, the commission wishes to extend its competence in this area even though france considers that it does not want such an extension. i voted against because this report is about the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which would undermine the sovereignty of states by seeking to extend the powers of the commission, allowing it to work closely with the member states to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on compensation and financial guarantee schemes for offshore oil and gas operations within the union. the case is linked to energy security issues, for which it is necessary to safeguard the interests of france and therefore to oppose the extension of the commission's field of competence. therefore, in the light of the liability schemes, which are the main means of applying the 'polluter pays' principle and thus guarantee that companies are held liable for damage caused in the course of their activities, france must be able to retain all its prerogatives, outside a global european framework. finally, the failure of the directive on safety of operations at sea is evident in this area, which proves that action at member state level will make it possible to be more efficient.
in writing. ‒ the commission wishes to extend its competence in this area, even though france considers that it does not want such an extension. this is a violation of the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report follows the safety at sea directive, which was adopted to establish minimum requirements for the prevention of major accidents in oil and gas operations in the eu. the report thus sets out a list of recommendations relating to the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle, i.e. the principle that an activity which pollutes a territory must compensate that territory. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that oil and gas activities require special precautions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on liability, compensation and financial guarantees for offshore oil and gas operations. oil and gas accidents at sea are serious environmental disasters, and the european union must be particularly strict about them. while the union has already legislated on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations, several elements of european legislation, such as the treatment of civil liability in the event of such accidents, still need to be harmonised. this report presents several ways, which the commission should assess, of ensuring better legal treatment of the consequences of oil and gas accidents at sea.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this report is to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the union. however, this extension of powers is rejected by france.
in writing. ‒ i oppose this report, which is intended to extend the commission's powers, as is often the case, to the detriment of the sovereignty of states, france itself having expressed its opposition to such an act. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recommends updating the existing liability systems in the member states to ensure that, if an incident occurs in the waters of these states, it does not affect the future of offshore oil and gas operations or the whole eu ecosystem and local players.
in writing. ‒ this implementation report follows a communication from the european commission on the civil and criminal liability of operators covered by directive 2013/30/eu on safety of operations at sea. the commission is examining in particular the arrangements for compensation and guarantees applicable in the event of accidents at sea. i have therefore supported this report which proposes to clarify the existing systems of liability in the member states.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this text is to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the union. the text is in favour of amending and extending the commission's field of competence, even though france has spoken out against such an extension. we therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wishes the commission to work closely with the member states to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the eu. the commission thus wishes to extend its competence in this area. that is why i spoke against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wishes the commission to work closely with the member states to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the union. in other words, the commission wishes to extend its competence in this area even though france considers that it does not want such an extension. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wishes the commission to work closely with the member states to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the union. in other words, the commission wishes to extend its competence in this area even though france considers that it does not want such an extension. i therefore vote against this text which undermines the sovereignty of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on liability, compensation and financial guarantees for offshore oil and gas operations. the directive setting out minimum requirements for the prevention of serious accidents in offshore oil and gas operations does not deal with these issues. it is essential to establish a harmonised union-wide liability and compensation regime, which both protects the sectors affected by these accidents and ensures that operators or any other responsible party have the necessary financial resources to deal with claims for compensation.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wishes the commission to work closely with the member states to modernise the systems of compensation and financial guarantee for offshore oil and gas operations within the union. in other words, the commission wishes to extend its competence in this area even though france considers that it does not want such an extension. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ a new attempt to interfere in a complex regional context already weakened by many other external interferences. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this joint resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo because it shows a total lack of diplomatic responsibility, but above all a great hypocrisy tinged with alzheimer's disease. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. moreover, the resolution makes no mention of the disruptive role of rwanda, to the east of the drc, which is trying to seize the mineral wealth with the guilty complicity of our dear european powers, who, for the occasion, forget their human rights mantras. finally, diplomacy is one of the prerogatives of sovereign states and must remain so, with non-interference and the right of peoples to self-determination as a principle.
in writing. ‒ the political instability in the democratic republic of congo is becoming alarming. president joseph kabila's second term ends on 20 december 2016. the constitution of the democratic republic of the congo limits the number of presidential terms to two. president kabila does not want to leave power and is using every means to delay his departure. for example, he did not call for elections. this uncertainty about the country's political future has led to demonstrations and violence. these riots have caused many casualties. this situation has to stop. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution concerns the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the democratic republic of congo (drc) has been in a deep political crisis since the re-election of joseph kabila in 2011. this crisis was aggravated by the failure to hold new presidential elections in time, i.e. before the expiry of president kabila's second term on 19 december 2016. this european parliament resolution condemns this situation. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. in recent months we have seen a worsening of the situation with regard to freedom of expression and human rights. concrete sanctions must be taken against those responsible for the violence. the european union must open up dialogue on the ground in cooperation with the african union. in order to prevent the current political crisis from worsening further, i also call for a democratic and peaceful transition to restore stability to the country.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the european parliament's reaction to the current situation in the democratic republic of congo, marked by the end of the second term of president kabila, is as follows: it was following the assassination of his father, laurent-désiré kabila, that president kabila came to power. despite the undemocratic nature of the regime, several elements are not addressed in this report, which excludes rwandan interference in the internal affairs of the drc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the violations of human rights and the attacks on democracy in the democratic republic of congo. the text warns against president kabila, who is constitutionally limited to two terms and has used means to delay the election and stay in power beyond what he is allowed. the persistent delays in the electoral preparations have caused unprecedented political tension, unrest and violence throughout the country. even though an agreement was reached to postpone the presidential election to 2018, not all the opposition took part and human rights continue to be threatened.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is a new interference in a complex regional context already weakened by multiple external interferences (the united states, rwanda, uganda, belgium...).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. the purpose of this text is to give parliament's opinion on the current situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). we consider the situation in the drc to be extremely delicate and we feel that the intervention of the european parliament could be counterproductive to the efforts of national diplomats. it could also endanger the security of nationals of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the drc is extremely fragile. it should be remembered that joseph kabila was placed in the presidency following the assassination of laurent-désiré kabila with the support of the western powers (usa, belgium) who had supported laurent-désiré kabila against marshal mobutu. the kabila regime is certainly objectionable, but french diplomacy recognizes primarily states and not governments. at the same time, several elements have been ignored by the eu bodies, such as the role of rwanda which is destabilizing the entire eastern drc in order to seize the mineral wealth with the active complicity of western powers. in addition, the need for stability and self-determination must be taken into account. the european parliament should not interfere in this matter and endanger the diplomacy of the member states or even the security of their nationals. i therefore voted against the joint resolution and against the resolutions of the greens, the eul/ngl and the ecr. i abstained on the others.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the drc is extremely fragile. it should be remembered that joseph kabila was placed in the presidency following the assassination of laurent-désiré kabila with the support of the western powers (usa, belgium) who had previously supported the same laurent-désiré kabila against marshal mobutu. the kabila regime is certainly objectionable, but french diplomacy recognizes primarily states and not governments. at the same time, the community authorities have ignored several facts, such as the role of rwanda in destabilising the whole of eastern drc in order to seize the mineral wealth with the active complicity of western powers at the cost of a war which has already claimed an estimated 4.5 to 7 million victims. finally, the need for stability and self-determination must be taken into account, and the european parliament should not interfere in this matter and in the process seriously jeopardize the diplomacy of the member states and even the security of their nationals.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has no legitimacy to deal with foreign affairs. its interference in situations as complex as the one in the democratic republic of congo cannot be good and cannot bring anything positive. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the violations of human rights and the breaches of democratic principles in the democratic republic of congo. it is unacceptable that the congolese people should bear the brunt of this electoral deadlock which has plunged the country into chaos for more than a year and which has seriously weakened the population already suffering from extreme poverty and insecurity. we demand an end to the violence and arbitrary arrests. we recall that peace, security and stability are essential conditions for the proper conduct of new elections.
‒ another proof that good intentions can lead to an indigestible resolution. it mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on female gender identity, traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern and improved stoves, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc. many of the themes discussed are important but are presented in an incomprehensible disorder, as if the rapporteur had tried to inject as much goodwill as possible into this text, but had not succeeded in finding a strong and logical axis. it is noted that the demographic growth in africa is rapid, without saying that this is the main problem of the continent. in the end, there is something indecent about asking to limit the access of fossil fuels to these populations, asking them to change their lifestyles when those of westerners are much more expensive in energy. however, in view of the subjects discussed, i abstained, hoping for a better text to come on this subject.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution addresses many interesting points, but it piles them all together (access to energy and clean water, women's rights, climate justice, energy poverty, etc.) to arrive at a draft result, which is hardly understandable, lacking any real structure or logic. i have abstained on this one, hoping for a better text in the future.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this resolution, which is full of good intentions but which is scattered in all directions as regards the challenges and possible solutions for access to energy in developing countries. the text thus provides an overview of the challenges faced by these countries: access to clean water, climate justice, human rights, gender specificity, or traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern stoves. in addition, some findings are made without drawing the relevant conclusions, as in the case of rapid population growth. finally, i doubt whether the european institutions can give moral lessons on access to fossil fuels when the lifestyles of westerners are not the most environmentally responsible: multiple air travel via low-cost airlines or public lighting with high energy consumption, especially during the holiday season. however, given the vital importance of the issues discussed, i would hope that another, more constructive and reasonable text would tackle these issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider that access to energy is an accelerator of development. access to affordable and reliable clean energy is one of the prerequisites for poverty reduction and economic development. improving health, cooking methods, food security, access to clean water are only possible through the sustainable development of energy sources in developing countries. objective 7 of the un sustainable development goals aims to ensure that by 2030 all people have access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services. in terms of financing, the report proposes to phase out european development finance supporting fossil fuels and stresses that blended finance operations must respect the principles of development effectiveness. in the context of improving access to energy, stakeholders need to be involved in decision-making and project development in order to have easily usable, sustainable and culturally acceptable sources.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to take stock of energy poverty in developing countries by highlighting the large number of people who still do not have access to electricity. the european parliament is thus committed to supporting the commission's 'energy for development' initiative, which aims to provide an additional 500 million people in developing countries with access to sustainable energy by 2030. considering the need to provide equitable access to basic needs, including access to energy, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on energy access in developing countries. today, 1.2 billion people still do not have access to electricity. access to energy is an accelerator of economic and human development and reduces potential security problems. the european union's development aid in the energy sector has increased significantly for the period 2014-2020, which will allow africa in particular to exploit its high potential for renewable energy resources. the involvement of the private sector and local civil society organisations is also a clear asset that we must build on.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the report covers the following issues: access to energy and clean water, emphasis on the specificity of women, traditional wood-fired cooking, energy poverty, renewable energy, etc. other problems, on the other hand, have been ignored: the demographics of africa and the difficulty of doing without fossil fuels, even though westerners are the main ones responsible for the waste of resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to take stock of energy poverty in developing countries by highlighting the large number of people who do not have access to electricity. it proposes solutions to achieve more effective and sustainable energy access.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because it is a vague resolution but full of good feelings. it wants to remove funding for fossil fuels in favour of modern energy, which makes no sense in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion for a resolution. this text deals with a wide range of issues relating to the development of third countries, including access to energy. while the intention is good, the proposal lacks coherence, in particular by claiming to encourage these countries to adopt a less polluting lifestyle than westerners...
in writing. ‒ the resolution mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on gender specificity, traditional cuisine, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc. there are many important themes covered but in a mess that makes the text difficult to understand. the latter then loses all interest. it is also a complete paradox to ask that these populations be restricted in their access to fossil fuels, to ask them to change certain lifestyles, when in other regions such waste and consumption have never been so widespread and almost indecent, and when population growth has never been so problematic. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ there is something indecent about asking to limit the access of people in developing countries to fossil fuels, asking them to change certain lifestyles at a time when westerners are spending more time travelling around the world in low-cost cars and wasting energy shamelessly at christmas time, these lights in december representing on average 10% of the annual energy expenditure of public lighting in a large french city. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on access to energy in developing countries. the resolution takes stock of energy poverty in developing countries and makes proposals to improve access to energy, such as the transfer of solar and wind technologies from the union to developing countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. of the 1.1 billion africans, 700 million do not have access to electricity. by 2030, if nothing is done, this number could rise to 1.3 billion. in other words, it is the future most populous continent on the planet that will have the least access to electricity and light. it is high time to help developing countries, and in particular africa, to increase their access to energy. the stakes are enormous: education, migration, stability and security. this is what's behind the access to energy in developing countries.
‒ another proof that good intentions can lead to an indigestible resolution. it mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on female gender identity, traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern and improved stoves, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc. many of the themes discussed are important but are presented in an incomprehensible disorder, as if the rapporteur had tried to inject as much goodwill as possible into this text, but had not succeeded in finding a strong and logical axis. under the circumstances, i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ sustainable access to reliable, safe and affordable energy, as well as access to clean water, health and education, is fundamental for all human beings, but also for ensuring the economic development of countries. more than a billion people still lack access to electricity worldwide. we must redouble our efforts in the energy sector to help protect the environment and also to improve development. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which refers to the seriousness of the energy situation in developing countries. it is important to stress that we will only overcome this problem by encouraging local production of renewable energy. all stakeholders, governments and international investors need to commit to these goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on access to energy in developing countries. the resolution places particular emphasis on the african continent, given that currently nearly 1.2 billion people do not have access to electricity and that half of those without access live in africa. at the same time, more than 70% of africa's total energy consumption comes from renewable sources, but there are many opportunities to diversify these sources and include new ones. it is important that the european union, through its programmes and initiatives, can make its expertise available to enable capacity building and technology transfer.
‒ another proof that good intentions can lead to an indigestible resolution. it mixes access to energy and clean water, emphasis on female gender identity, traditional wood-fired cooking versus modern and improved stoves, energy poverty, renewable and fossil energy, subsidies to the latter, dam construction, private-public partnerships, human rights, climate justice, etc. many of the themes discussed are important but are presented in an incomprehensible disorder, as if the rapporteur had tried to inject as much goodwill as possible into this text, but had not succeeded in finding a strong and logical axis. there is something indecent about asking to limit the access of fossil fuels to these populations, asking them to change certain lifestyles at a time when westerners spend more time traveling cheaply around the planet and waste energy shamelessly at christmas time, these lighting in december representing on average 10% of the annual energy expenditure of public lighting in a large french city. however, in view of the issues raised, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure was established by regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of 12 december 2006. the scope of this procedure, which entered into force in december 2008 in all member states (except denmark), is limited to uncontested claims only. in the event of a dispute, the national courts have jurisdiction and the ordinary procedure is reopened. the report highlights the insufficient number of returns to adequately measure the effectiveness of the european order for payment procedure. the report highlights the slow processing of applications despite the out-of-court procedure. it therefore proposes to revitalize this procedure. i voted against this proposal, which will place new burdens and constraints on the states, dictated by the commission, and will make them lose even more of their sovereignty. moreover, simplicity and speed should not be sufficient reasons to sacrifice the legal certainty offered by the judge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal, which would undermine the sovereignty of states: this optional procedure would replace national civil and commercial law procedures in crossborder disputes. in practice, it would not require the use of a judge or a lawyer, nor should the applicant provide any supporting document. efficiency, simplicity and speed are not sufficient reasons to sacrifice the legal certainty offered by the judge.
in writing. ‒ as an auctioneer, i know how important it is to unify certain rules of legal and criminal procedure in cases such as cross-border trade, sales or successions. the same applies, of course, to the enforcement of payment orders from one country to another. there are areas where europe must take action and fast. this is the case for cross-border recovery procedures. my colleague mr chrystogonos has understood this perfectly well and in his report he gives us a very good analysis of the difficult situation facing many companies or individuals who, because of the lack of a european procedure, cannot assert their right to claim their claims in a european country other than their own. i also fully support the possibility of allowing european orders for payment to be sent electronically in the future, as well as the creation of standard forms. europe cannot exist and really function without initiatives marked by a great deal of pragmatism. that is the case with my colleague's report and i commend him for it.
in writing. ‒ this report on the application of the european order for payment procedure called for my negative vote. the ec regulation no 1896/2006 of 12 december 2006 provides for this procedure to replace national civil and commercial procedures in crossborder disputes. the idea is to be able to do without a judge and a lawyer in the case of uncontested claims, since in the event of a dispute, the national courts take over. first of all, i am not sure that doing without a judge can guarantee complete legal certainty. moreover, as the report shows, the effectiveness of this procedure is far from proven, with a significant proportion of applications being rejected. but unlike the rapporteur, i do not want this procedure to be given new impetus. on the contrary, i reject the imposition of new constraints and burdens on states which should refuse to lose more and more of their sovereignty, here in legal matters. finally, i am not convinced of the relevance of out-of-court litigation procedures.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this project which will place new burdens and constraints on the states dictated by the commission, making them lose even more of their sovereignty. moreover, simplicity and speed should not be sufficient reasons to sacrifice the legal certainty offered by the judge. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the application of the european order for payment procedure. the purpose of this regulation is to simplify, speed up and reduce the cost of settling disputes involving more than one eu country and to ensure the free movement of orders for payment recognised and enforced in all eu countries. considering the need to approximate, or even to harmonise, legal and administrative practices within the framework of judicial cooperation in civil matters within the european territory, i voted in favour of this application.
in writing. the european order for payment procedure facilitates the recovery of sums due in cross-border cases. i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the increasing number of european orders for payment. i regret, however, that this procedure is only very rarely applied in a number of member states. member states should also allow applicants to submit their applications in other languages, as is the case in particular in france where applications are accepted in five different languages.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the european order for payment procedure was established by regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of 12 december 2006. the procedure does not require the use of a judge or lawyer, or of an exequatur, and is cost-effective, even if its scope is limited to uncontested claims. the report nevertheless highlights many shortcomings, which hamper the effectiveness of the system: in particular, the lack of awareness and the slowness of processing. we cannot support this project which will place new burdens and constraints on the states, dictated by the commission, to the detriment of their sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ although the draft law has practical advantages, it threatens the sovereignty of the member states by increasing the commission's control over them, and by reducing legal certainty under the guise of simplifying and facilitating the procedure. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the european order for payment procedure. while welcoming the smooth operation of this procedure in all the states, the report deplores the significant delay of almost two years in sending the commission's report and the absence of updated data on the situation of the states with regard to the operation and application of the procedure. we therefore ask for an extended, updated and detailed impact study. the first of all objectives is to improve the information of businesses and professionals on the existence, operation, application and benefits of the european order for payment procedure in cross-border cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to extend the commission's competence in this area and to encourage eu intervention in the area of criminal liability.
in writing. ‒ i supported this implementation report, which follows a communication from the european commission assessing the application of regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure. it agrees with the european commission's conclusions that although the procedure, a tool for judicial simplification in crossborder cases, could be used more in some countries, it works perfectly wherever it is more widely practised.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the purpose of this text is to amend the european order for payment procedure so that it can replace national civil and commercial law procedures in crossborder disputes concerning uncontested claims. this procedure, which does not require a judge or a lawyer, has several advantages (speed, efficiency and cost). its limited popularity and some persistent delays are the main reasons why the rapporteur wants to improve it. this procedure, which appears to be rather positive, places new constraints on france and allows the commission to interfere once again in our sovereignty, something we oppose. we also have serious doubts about the legal certainty of this procedure, which is simple, fast, but which no judge has come to check.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the insufficient number of returns to adequately measure the effectiveness of the european order for payment procedure. in addition, this procedure suffers from a limited awareness which prevents it from reaching its full potential. this lack of knowledge has resulted in a large proportion of applications being rejected despite the simplicity of the procedure. the report also highlights the slow processing of applications despite the out-of-court procedure. we cannot support this project which will place new burdens and constraints on the states dictated by the commission, making them lose even more of their sovereignty. moreover, simplicity and speed should not be sufficient reasons to sacrifice the legal certainty offered by the judge. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am against this project, which will place new burdens and constraints on the states dictated by the commission, making them lose even more of their sovereignty. moreover, simplicity and speed should not be sufficient reasons to sacrifice the legal certainty offered by the judge.
in writing. ‒ this project will place new burdens and constraints on the states dictated by the commission, making them lose even more of their sovereignty. moreover, simplicity and speed should not be sufficient reasons to sacrifice the legal certainty offered by the judge. i therefore vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation of the european order for payment procedure. the purpose of the directive is to facilitate the recovery of claims in cross-border cases. it can be applied for by post or electronically, does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be used in the other member states without any additional formalities. the commission submits that the studies and consultations carried out have not revealed any difficulties in applying the procedure. however, it would be appropriate to update the application forms and to facilitate the filing of procedures online and in a foreign language. europe must continue to act to simplify the administrative procedures for citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure was established by the regulation of 12 december 2006. this procedure is a first in the field. it is optional and replaces national civil and commercial procedures in cross-border disputes. in practice, this european procedure does not require the use of a judge or a lawyer; the applicant shall also not be required to provide supporting documentation. it has certain advantages. i cannot support this project which would place new burdens and constraints on the states dictated by the commission, making them lose even more of their sovereignty. moreover, simplicity and speed should not be sufficient reasons to sacrifice the legal certainty offered by the judge. i voted against this text.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i propose a debate on aleppo on wednesday, the first debate of the afternoon. there is a dramatic humanitarian situation in aleppo, and i think the truth must be established. today, the nusra rebels are preventing syria from establishing humanitarian corridors, and so it is important today to ensure that the situation in aleppo is well understood. we need to have a thorough debate on this. i propose that we should discuss this, because aleppo is the beginning of the liberation of syria, it is a very important point, and i think that parliament should be able to express its views on this subject.
mr president, i wanted to mark this great day of liberation for syria. let's tell the truth once and for all about east aleppo, about manipulation, propaganda against the rule of law, democracy, morality, but above all, against the truth. it is therefore very important that this debate should take place.
for the greens/efa group madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we had a historic opportunity to improve rail transport and we missed it. this fourth railway package is the culmination of a long process begun 25 years ago by the european commission. we would have liked to have a real european railway, a railway that could compete with road and other polluting modes of transport, because, i would remind you, rail transport is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport, the one that emits the least co2 and fine particles. we have no choice but to increase the share of trains in europe, and if we want to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction targets, well we have not given ourselves enough means, even though we have the paris agreements. this aspect, which we shall vote on on wednesday, on passenger transport is the most important, because it will be experienced directly by european citizens, in their experience as passengers, and by railway workers, who are taking a leap into the unknown. we are going to be judged on this case by the pieces, and it is wrong to say that we will be able to revise this legislative package if it goes wrong. that's not true! we are committed for at least 20 years, the time for which all the stages of opening up to competition provided for in this package are being implemented. all this was well understood by european railway workers. they're drawing our attention because the legislature has done a bad job, and they're afraid for their future. what was done wrong? the first thing is that the european union has confused 'liberating' and 'liberalising' the railway. a very simple example: in 2006, freight was liberalised in europe. ten years later, traffic has dropped by 30 percent. we liberalized without liberating and we got the opposite effect of what we wanted. this example must therefore be borne in mind when passenger transport is opened up to competition. the risks to passenger transport are twofold: first, the risk of deterioration of public transport. the public service networks will be opened from 2023 and the operator will be selected by public procurement. there is no doubt that competition will be based on price and not on quality or high level of service. we must expect less safety on board, less dessert on the less profitable segments, because the text gives no guarantees on these aspects. the solution is simple: it was necessary to impose specifications with the most comprehensive possible european mandatory public service criteria, and that was removed from the text. we cannot vote on this text in these conditions. another worrying example is social pricing. other operators will not be obliged to offer social tariffs. what does that mean? no more low prices for students, the unemployed, the disabled or the elderly. it is at the very heart of public service and our european solidarity system. finally, for workers, what is happening is serious: a railway worker has no guarantee that in the event of a change of operator, his job on the network, which he is accustomed to serving, will be preserved. we are creating a job that is precarious and can be outsourced, with precariousness that will return with every contract. what do we want to show the citizens? the european union protecting them or making them insecure? so i tell you, the group of environmentalists here on wednesday will vote against this text because it contains principles of social breakdown and breakdown of public service. we will stand with the workers tomorrow in front of our european parliament, hoping that the other political groups, which make up the majority here, will come to their senses and resume discussions. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". the very concrete examples, we have had them; in germany, in the netherlands, you can see a little bit of what happened. today, in this fourth railway package, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to make the european union proud of what the legislator is creating. that is to say, yes, sustainability, because we must finally take rail, and in particular trains, into account throughout europe and invest. but the second thing is that we can't do it without the employees. we need a new pact with the workers, but also with climate objectives that must be met. without both, we will not succeed, and unfortunately today neither is up to the task. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs grapini, ladies and gentlemen, we are used to working together on the question of good compromises, yes? on this text you say to me: "but you do not want to go forward". the question today is: do we want to break the workers even more or protect them? i don't have employee protection in this bill. i have to say, we don't have employee protection. i have tabled amendments, however, and they have not been accepted. today, in the specifications, these criteria are not even a requirement. everyone will do as they please. mrs grapini, why am i voting against? simply because i am calling for your vigilance, i am calling for a wake-up call in this parliament, to say: 'we cannot take this risk, so let us reopen the discussions so that the best social and environmental arguments prevail above all. other
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the three reports in the market part of the fourth railway package are very well divided: one report for the moralist left, one for the right-wing money-makers and one for the ideologically extreme left. and all of you, while pretending to oppose it politically, are unanimously denouncing these directives which should not be called the 'railway package' but 'railway demolition'. that is precisely what we are talking about: an ever more advanced dismantling of the railway sector to be offered to the financial powers under the pretext of free competition. europe-oriented elites or naïve globalists, you pretend to fight against global warming but encourage international travel, when it might be more profitable to promote proximity or even the local. when it is argued that competition has enabled rail freight to progress, what i see in my country, france, is a collapse of rail freight by 20 per cent in five years. some will be satisfied with the inclusion in the competition regulation of the obligation on undertakings to comply with social legislation and collective agreements. but how fortunate that companies must obey the law! the fact that such an inept piece of paper has been written is proof that its only purpose is to serve as a political poster that will allow some of you to say to your constituents: 'but we have built social protections', when you know from experience that these pseudo-protections will remain purely theoretical. the increase in the number of providers will in itself lead to an increase in fraud and social dumping, especially in international travel. do not be surprised that year after year, betrayal after betrayal, those you call populists are becoming more and more numerous. it is the policies you are pursuing blindly, following the dogma of competition applied to public service, that are disgusting to the citizens, who are paying the price. you don't listen to the people who can't take your plutocratic policies anymore. as you will have understood, the members of the french delegation of the enl group will vote against this politically hypocritical and socially disastrous reform, which will result in the abandonment of entire regions which are already in decline, in the sole favour of the globalised metropolises. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. we shall see and let it be known what those who still claim to be committed to the social welfare of our fellow citizens and to the development of our regions will vote.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the opening up of national markets, if it is not regulated, is not the solution. firstly, competition is not an end in itself and is not the prerequisite for quality of service, which must remain the main objective of public policies. secondly, the opening up of markets cannot affect the ability of local authorities to organise and protect public services. while these two fundamental principles are reflected in the text, with the possibility of awarding public service contracts directly, without a call for tenders, and the possibility of limiting the arrival of private operators to protect a public service operator, on the other hand, the social aspect is not mentioned. the opening up of markets cannot be achieved without strong social guarantees. the text does not incorporate the principle of the compulsory transfer of staff in the event of a change of operator, even though this was the position of the european parliament at first reading. i therefore call on you to vote for our amendment in favour of mandatory transfer of staff to ensure that competition is not at the expense of working conditions. let us show that europe protects social rights and its workers.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the friends of the railways, the friends of europe, the friends of railway europe, had very warmly welcomed and supported the technical pillar of the railway package. they had also seen with great interest the commission's proposal on the political pillar. the package looked like a christmas package. unfortunately, after the first passage through parliament, but above all after all the member states have come to the council to make their committees, all of them having obtained alterations to the original text, even completely distorting it, it can be said that the agreement reached with parliament is not a compromise, it is a compromise. moreover, in the governance directive, things are such that, as of today, we see the member states, understanding that there is no longer, in fact, a pillar governance, go back. sncf now employs 10 000 people in its head holding company, which is supposed to be a light administrative structure of governance of two independent structures, and renfe announced to us two days ago that it was going to reunite its infrastructure manager with its transport operator. that's the result! this is absolutely disastrous. i think that this governance directive is taking us backwards, not forwards, and this is a great tragedy for railway europe, especially since not only are there no open markets, but there is also a great deal of judicial and legal instability to be expected and, as you have seen, the social issues do not seem to have been resolved. in short, we are not waiting for a fifth railway package, since the fourth package could close the list. what i mean is that perhaps it would have been better to give up, think a little and come back a little later rather than arrive at a solution which, in the end, will not satisfy anyone and will not open up europe's rail capacity any further.
the rapporteur. mr president, this regulation on deep-sea fishing is a highly symbolic regulation, which has been the subject of much discussion. you may sometimes wonder why, and yet the answers are there. firstly, because we are at the heart of the question of sustainable development, that is to say at the heart of the famous triangle which should be equilateral, defined in rio, between environment, economy and social. the fisheries sector is an economic activity which, in addition to the social function of its jobs, also has a social function in terms of food and, of course, a strong environmental impact. but beyond that, there is a great concern among our fellow citizens about what we will do with our oceans. since 2012, when the barroso commission proposed a ban on deep-sea fishing, we have been able to say: 'at least i was sure of it' 'that we could make this sustainable development work, which is often just a slogan, the certainty that a compromise was possible' 'not necessarily a compromise between the political groups, that is always possible, or almost so' but a compromise on the big issues, namely, precisely, the vulnerable seabed to be protected, the species to be protected, but also economic activity and its jobs and the food function. i must say that there was a lot of noise, a lot of anger, a lot of insults, death threats against me, incredible pressure, but we worked in the european parliament and in the council and we got an agreement which - i believe at any rate - meets our priorities and all these objectives. what are the results? first, the maintenance of the business. it's not nothing, it was still 760 ships. secondly, the freezing of the footprint, that is to say the definition of an area where we can continue to fish in deep waters, but which is limited to the one that was in force between 2009 and 2011. a bathymetric limit that will prohibit fishing below a half mile. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the control of fishing activities by vessels flying its flag. scientific monitoring of fishing activities is quite exceptional, with 20 per cent of this activity to be covered by scientific observers. many impact studies and catch records, including non-target species. we certainly didn't choose the easy way out. it would have been much easier to do what the barroso commission had proposed, namely to prohibit everything, or even simpler, just as simple, to allow everything. legally, it would have been quite easy. that is why this regulation is so difficult and technical, because we have tried to bring all these requirements and issues together. this is also why it took the council two years to agree, and why it was hampered by many contradictions. this is also why we have had two presidencies of the council and in this connection i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency, which initiated this work, and the dutch presidency, which concluded it, and which accompanied us for nine months - the gestation period - and five trilogues. but, of course, it is my colleagues and their teams and the parliament's teams that i would like to thank most of all tonight. we worked at a high level of technicality, all of us together. we worked for nine months, more than ten meetings of fictitious rapporteurs, we were in a bloc with the council, even though our positions were not always distant. in closing, i'd like to say that i'm happy that there are only two losers. there will be only two losers in the vote, i hope: those who wanted to ban everything and those who wanted to allow everything so that profit is the only rule. the winners are those who refuse to let the three angles of the sustainable development triangle defined in rio sink into the bermuda triangle and believe that human intelligence can triumph.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the adoption of this report, which is the culmination of four years of hard negotiations on deep-sea fishing in the european union. good for the reporter. starting from a radical proposal, the european parliament and the council have succeeded in drawing a clear and balanced line for deep-sea fisheries. we have had the difficult task of finding a compromise between our environmental ambitions to safeguard very slow-maturing species and the preservation of vulnerable ecosystems, and the safeguarding of regulated targeted and by-catch fisheries that are necessary for some of our european regions. this agreement will enable the collection of data essential to the knowledge of the seabed and of species still too little known, thanks to the presence of observers on board vessels. in addition, fishing vessels are only allowed to fish within the historical fishing footprint. when they encounter vulnerable marine ecosystems between 0 and 400 metres deep, they must now move away from them by a minimum of 5 nautical miles and report them to the national authorities. these areas will then be closed to fishing. i am glad that by-catch is allowed up to 11.5 tonnes per year, but that it is supervised and controlled. we have reached a balanced agreement that respects the marine environment and enhances the sustainability of fisheries, based on an awareness of the vulnerability of european and global seabeds. we have sought and obtained an agreement which is economically and ecologically sustainable and profoundly european. thank you, emilie, for everything you've helped me do in this house since 2009.
i'm the reporter. mr president, madam commissioner, although i am a little sorry that mr vella is not here, i am sorry. i would, of course, like to respond to the fact that any compromise generates frustration. i would like to say two things to mr ferreira, to mr mato, or to mrs engström, to mr millán mon, or at least to them: firstly, the agreement is evolving and the impact studies and evaluations planned will make it possible to move it in the right direction, all the more so. whether it's reporting all catches, but also impact studies, scientific observers - we've talked about this - all of these things will allow us to improve our knowledge of vulnerable marine systems, but also of non-targeted species. so i hope that all of this scientific data, with all of these assessments and impact studies, will allow us to do even better next time and generate less frustration than we're generating today. in any case, i would like to thank once again all the fictitious rapporteurs, mrs barandica, mr jadot, mr ferreira, mr mato, of course i will forget about them - there you are, you should not have done that - mr affronte, i thank you very warmly for all the work you have done, with your teams of course, and i thank you for the fact that in the end reason and rationality have prevailed.
the committee on petitions has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, commissioner, we are here in strasbourg and, not far from here, there is the european court of human rights, where the judges decide and sanction the 47 partner states in cases of human rights violations. for us, the charter of fundamental rights applies with the same force and importance as the treaties. but although we are, as the european union, more politicized and more integrated, we have much more difficulty in punishing states guilty of non-respect of fundamental rights, as if these rights were scary, as if europe could do it all by itself, with more or less fundamental rights. on the member states side, look at the setbacks in terms of violations of women's rights, lgbti rights, refugee rights. the commission and the council have failed to adopt a directive on maternity leave or have blocked the anti-discrimination package. in 2015, more than 150 petitions were about direct human rights violations and this number is only increasing. what about 2016? we know all too well - history has shown us - that in times of crisis, when it comes to fundamental rights, whenever we stop moving forward, we go backwards. so let us not be complicit in or responsible for these setbacks, but let us be on the offensive against fundamental rights.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur. it is becoming increasingly difficult to take stock of fundamental rights in the european union and outside the european union, as the gap between texts and the reality of practices seems to widen. this is of course true of the rights of migrants, both within the territory of the union and at its borders, and i am thinking in particular of the rights of minors and in particular of isolated minors and of what i will call the denial of the right to asylum and more broadly of international protection. i also think of the challenges to the rule of law and democracy, to freedom of the press, to the right to protest, to the independence of the judiciary, to women's rights, to lgbt rights and to the rights of minorities. viktor orbán and his 'illiberal democracy' seem to be gaining more and more followers. many of those who live in our territories are stigmatised and their fundamental rights are denied in the name of national or religious identities that would be typical of fanciful europeans, and i am not even talking about those who question the european convention on human rights. so yes, my dear colleagues, i am concerned and i wonder what the value of the charter of fundamental rights is to those who govern us.
madam president, we can see the general spirit of this report. it consists in treating any globalist discourse as a discourse of love, justice and tolerance, and any national discourse as a discourse of hatred and xenophobia to be suppressed as such. in europe, what has escaped the nomenclature of this report, which tells us everything about immigrants, roma, disabled people, lesbians, gays, transsexuals, new technologies, children, the elderly, women, etc. what has escaped are precisely the restrictions on freedom of expression. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. that is how we are imprisoning today, as we were imprisoning yesterday the poles who considered that the katyn massacre was the fault of the russians and not of the germans, who were tried to blame for it.
madam president, commissioner, this is yet another all-purpose report advocating good thinking, political correctness, a report full of good intentions, sometimes bordering on incantation. it covers everything from immigration to terrorism, crime, values, education, children, the elderly, the disabled, human trafficking and the integration of the roma. you see the migration crisis as a historic challenge for our time, a positive demographic factor and, above all, as the future of europe. we see it as a serious threat, especially to the security of our fellow citizens, and i will not be dissuaded by the tragedies that have occurred in europe and france in recent months. you in the european parliament want to introduce the pnr and restrict the acquisition and possession of firearms in order to fight terrorism. we consider this a new and brutal attack on the freedoms of decent people, to disarm them in the face of a terrorist threat, which you have never been and will never be able to fight. you are arbitrarily denouncing a growing discourse of hatred on the political scene, growing euroscepticism and political positions described as violent and dangerous for european civilization. we see it as a beacon of hope. you are witnessing a powerful awakening of the peoples of europe, who reject your outdated and ineffective solutions. like the unelected president of the european commission, mr juncker, who pleaded with european governments not to hold more referendums, you disregard the sovereign expression of the peoples in order to impose a moribund ideology on them. ladies and gentlemen, open your eyes wide, the europeans no longer want your solutions and your eternal moral lessons!
madam president, i would first like to thank our colleagues, mr ehler and mr morgano, for their excellent work. finally, there is a roadmap on the table, a number of recommendations, real, concrete action plans, which bear an ambitious and determined vision for a real european strategy for the promotion and development of the creative and cultural industries. as has already been said, the economic and employment impact of this vast sector of the creative and cultural industries is considerable. these are jobs which are largely non-transferable and which have a very strong attraction for our younger generations. everything must be done to promote and develop this sector, to protect these creative and cultural industries from the threats of counterfeiting, smuggling and piracy, to establish and consolidate permanent financing mechanisms through the consolidation of intellectual property rights, copyright, for example in the cultural sector, and it is time we had a real arsenal and a real road map.
in writing. regarding the ehler/morgano report, i am in favour of the promotion of the crafts and know-how of the european peoples: for example, in france, the crafts sector represents more than 3 million active workers, comprising more than 510 different activities and providing 100 000 jobs each year; these jobs are difficult to outsource and carry traditional and transgenerational skills. this is why i am also fighting for learning and its dissemination, for the upgrading of manufacturing sectors. i also support the fight against piracy and counterfeiting, which are putting a cultural industry in a precarious position, despite the fact that it represents 3.3% of european gdp. however, the report mentions the possibilities offered by the guarantee mechanism and the creative europe programme, yet, according to initial estimates, the results for smes would be delayed. finally, i am opposed to a european policy on the subject: the member states must be able to continue to defend their industries so that the know-how of the european peoples lives on and our cultural exception can shine.
the committee on budgets madam president, i must begin this presentation by apologising to our rapporteur, mariya gabriel, who is currently in gabon, where, as chief observer, she is finalising the final report of the election observation mission sent by the european union to that country. first of all, mrs gabriel would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs for the very good cooperation that has developed between her and them, which has made it possible to submit a very positive, very constructive, coherent report on the issue of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries to our plenary tomorrow. the report by mariya gabriel is part of a genuine logic of ever closer partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states on the one hand and the eastern partnership countries - armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine - on the other. what is the approach and what are the key messages of gabriel's report? stabilising its neighbourhood is one of the main objectives of the european union's foreign policy. the european neighbourhood policy plays a key role in ensuring security, peace, stability and prosperity, while respecting, of course, the principles of international law and the fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. given the foundations and objectives of the eastern partnership, the issue of women's rights and gender equality cannot be treated in a secondary way. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the participation of third countries in union programmes in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union. the report proposes that a quantified approach be taken to the impact of the european neighbourhood policy and the european neighbourhood instrument in setting specific objectives for gender equality and respect for women's rights. for example, numerical targets could be defined by country and according to the priorities chosen, based in particular on the gender equality index developed by the european institute for gender equality. in the context of specific objectives defined with the eastern partnership countries, we could highlight success stories, successes, which enable us to initiate more profound changes, so that the constitutional legislative provisions existing in these countries continue to bear fruit and even bear fruit in ever greater numbers. finally, it is crucial that cooperation on women's rights is dealt with at a high political level and is considered a political priority. several thematic topics - if i may, madam president - firstly, the fight against violence against women. this is an important section in gabriel's report. we encourage the eastern partnership states in particular to also sign and ratify the council of europe convention on combating and preventing violence against women the so-called istanbul convention , in order to put in place real, practical, concrete measures to make progress in the fight against violence against women. the report also pays particular attention to the issue of human trafficking networks. the second dimension is women's economic participation. entrepreneurship in the eastern partnership countries is often the default choice, despite the fact that it is not possible to find ways of caring for children or dependent persons in an employed situation, and also because it is not possible to overcome the often extremely discouraging pay gaps. we must therefore strengthen support for women entrepreneurs in a positive way through specific instruments: microcredit, training, financial advice. particular attention should be paid to women entrepreneurs in rural areas. thirdly, the participation of women in political life. this must also be a priority. there is still a huge margin for improvement; in the various eastern partnership countries, women make up 14% of ministers and 16% of parliamentarians. it is important in this connection to underline the role of parliamentary cooperation, and in particular that of the euronest assembly, between our assembly and the parliaments of these countries, with the creation this year of the women's forum, which has contributed and must continue to contribute to greater participation of women in political life, in electoral life. in addition, european political parties, which very often have eastern partnership parties among their members, should be encouraged to make the issue of women's rights and greater participation of women in political decision-making processes a priority. in conclusion, the challenges faced by the eastern partnership countries in terms of women's rights are, in fact, common to those we face ourselves as the european union and as member states. we therefore need a strategic vision and a clearer, horizontal, cross-cutting commitment, which covers all aspects, all policies of the eastern partnership, but which also defines specific objectives. once again, the goal is to achieve stability, prosperity, shared peace.
madam president, commissioners, it is true that energy policy and economic policy are two sides of the same coin and must be dealt with together. the energy union package you are proposing provides solutions to the immense challenges facing the european union. this should enable us to develop the cleanest technologies. i'm very interested in the announcements you've made to us, on the one hand, about energy efficiency, on the other hand, about eco-design; this will lead to a lot of investment, and therefore a lot of jobs, and therefore growth. however, with regard to energy efficiency, it is also important to know what kind of financing can be offered. renewables are an important factor, but they need to be complementary to other current energy sources, whether nuclear, geothermal, hydroelectric or biogas produced by methanation. of course, coal is not the panacea, quite the contrary, and it will have to be gradually replaced, perhaps by gas, before we can achieve a greater development of renewables. however, in this area, we need research - it has been said - and i wonder, because we had pilot projects to capture and store carbon. today, only one of four pilot projects in europe has been implemented in norway. finally, the energy union will be gradually achieved, first at local level in the communities, by better networks more connected by interconnections that will create a much denser mesh of the european territory. i am convinced that this energy union is a key strategic driver for the success of the european union and we will support you in this.
madam president, commissioners, what is a policy? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. you know that! if we wanted to have an ambitious policy on energy efficiency and new energy sources, the only possibility, given the amounts that would have to be invested to go beyond the market, to have a voluntary policy, would have been to use monetary creation - what is called quantitative easing - in agreement with the central bank, to make a programme of 500 billion new investments in energy savings and new energy sources. if you have ambition, this is the right thing to do, you know. secondly, you have to rely on the states, on the state investment agencies and on the national public enterprises. you have not done so and you have largely destroyed the instruments we had after the second world war to build an effective energy policy. we therefore risk insecurity and face energy insecurity.
madam president, commissioner, my colleagues have already had the opportunity to call for more ambition, with higher binding targets on the three key parameters of your package: greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewables, and i agree with them. but ambition also means consistency and thoroughness. some fear that capacity mechanisms are subsidizing fossil fuels. how, then, can we reconcile the need for energy security with our commitments to reduce co2? what do you propose to do to revive energy efficiency investment in the electricity-intensive industries that your own services have recently noted to be at a standstill? you took a step forward on energy poverty by recognising that this was a truly european issue. but this does not magically wipe out the millions of europeans who are victims of this. there's still a lot of work to be done. finally, since you seem to be taking inspiration from the european semester for your governance component, how do you intend to transform what is today a somewhat jaded technocratic procedure into a genuine democratic exercise in positive debate on common energy options?
mr president, i understand that wind turbines are such a passion among our ruling elites, who love to both brew air and hand out subsidies. but we must realise the disastrous impact of these 21st century windmills on our ecosystem. i am thinking in particular of the growing use of rare earths, the extraction and processing of which is particularly polluting. and ask our fishermen what they think of offshore wind turbines, which are also very expensive to maintain. but all this is not really beneficial to our economies, since the market for wind turbine construction is increasingly being captured by chinese companies. but there's worse! wind turbines are disfiguring our landscapes shaped over centuries by generations before us. it is this same ill-conceived ecology that wants to systematize isolation from the outside, seriously endangering our built heritage. however, from january 2017, in france, a building permit will no longer be required for the construction of wind turbines. it is therefore logical that they should increase everywhere in an anarchic way, as the subsidies go. that is why i believe it is time to reinvest in other renewable energies, marine hydro, for example, like normandie hydro, neglected in recent years. hydropower remains by far the leading renewable electricity source. we also need to encourage sunshine. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on algeria's participation in eu programmes. i was opposed to this because i thought that brussels should not substitute itself for the states in foreign relations, and that it should not substitute itself for them with their money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which approves the conclusion of the protocol to the eu-algeria agreement. the latter is a neighbour of the european union and its participation in the programmes of the latter is an essential condition for cooperation between the two entities in many fields.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this framework agreement because the european union does not have to have its own foreign policy; it should not be in its power to integrate a third country into its internal programmes. moreover, i think it is risky to associate with algeria in view of the instability of the country, which is economically fragile and subject to the failing health of president bouteflika.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the framework agreement between the european union and algeria on the general principles for algeria's participation in eu programmes. the european union does not have to substitute itself for sovereign states in establishing diplomatic or commercial relations with third countries. particularly in this particular case concerning algeria, a country with which france has a long history and privileged relations. it is also comical that the eu is financing its diplomacy with money from the member states, which it is stripping of their powers.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the european union meddling in foreign affairs. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this is a consolidation report on algeria's participation in european union programmes. on the one hand, we believe that the european union should not take the place of the member states in its external relations with third countries. the union should not have a foreign policy, since diplomatic policy is the exclusive responsibility of the member states. on the other hand, it is not at all appropriate to integrate algeria into community programmes in view of its extremely fragile situation, particularly as a result of the very uncertain succession of president bouteflika. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report proposes the positive opinion of the european parliament on the gradual opening of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of the european neighbourhood policy partner countries. this framework agreement is one of a number of measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in third countries in the european union's neighbourhood. given the historical links between the union and france and algeria and the particular importance of supporting the stabilisation and development of neighbouring third countries, particularly in terms of stabilising the eu's external borders, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and algeria, of the other part, concerns a framework agreement between the european union and algeria on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. the objective of this protocol is to establish a general framework for algeria's participation in european programmes. it also helps to deepen our relations with our immediate neighbours. while similar protocols have already been signed with armenia, georgia, israel, jordan, moldova, morocco and ukraine and algeria indicated in february 2013 its wish to participate in these programmes, i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is a coding program which does not require any comment. the question of principle, however, is whether algeria should participate in community programmes. we are against it, both in principle and in view of the unstable situation in the country, caused in particular by the uncertain succession of president bouteflika.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the eu does not have to substitute itself for the states in foreign relations with their extra money.
in writing. ‒ whenever the european union tries to take over the management of europe's external relations, i would like to remind you that foreign policy must remain the prerogative of the states alone. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr pier antonio panzeri, on the agreement between the european union and algeria. under the european neighbourhood policy, algeria is one of the ten mediterranean neighbours with whom the eu has a political and strategic relationship. this procedure allows the eu to approve the memorandum of understanding between the two countries on the financial rules allowing algeria to participate in certain eu programmes. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows algeria to participate in and benefit from certain european programmes and the activities of certain eu agencies under the european neighbourhood policy. this framework agreement has been part of the negotiations requested by the council to the commission since 2007. algeria had expressed its interest in 2013. this text thus strengthens our ties with this country, which is essential for the stability of north africa.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the framework agreement between the european union and algeria on the general principles for the participation of algeria in european union programmes. even if this is only a consolidation report, the question is whether or not to accept algeria's participation in community programmes. the answer must be no, for many reasons, the first and most important of which is that the european union does not have to have a foreign policy and the second is that algeria is a country in a state of extreme fragility because of the uncertain succession of president bouteflika.
in writing. ‒ this report codifies algeria's participation in european union programmes through a framework agreement. i cannot accept this idea for two reasons: firstly, we are opposed to the eu having a foreign policy as such, since this prerogative should be devolved to the states by right. moreover, algeria is in a state of extreme fragility due to the uncertain succession of president bouteflika, as well as the "dutch syndrome" affecting the country's economic model. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text is a consolidation report which aims to involve algeria in eu community programmes, which we do not approve of. moreover, the eu does not have to take the place of states in their external relations.
in writing. ‒ algeria has expressed its willingness to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries, such as erasmus mundus and horizon 2020. although i oppose the terms of this agreement, which gives the commission the power to negotiate the terms, i respect the sovereign choice of this country, and i hope that algerian youth will be able to benefit from it. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this is a report codifying algeria's participation in european union programmes. i opposed this report on the grounds that the european union is not meant to manage foreign policy affairs, which are the sole responsibility of the states.
in writing. - the panzeri report is a codification report. it is a two-part report (acceptance and transmission to the union authorities). so there's nothing to comment on. the only problem is whether or not to accept algeria's participation in community programmes. the answer must be no for a number of reasons, the first of which is that the eu does not have to have a foreign policy and the second that algeria is a country in a state of extreme fragility because of the uncertain succession of president bouteflika. decolonization has been completed, there is no need to go back the other way. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ codification report on the participation of algeria in eu programmes. the eu does not have to substitute itself for the states in foreign relations, with their extra money. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part. algeria has concluded a euro-mediterranean agreement with the european union, which entered into force in september 2005. the additional protocol approved by the european parliament makes it possible to organise algeria's participation in certain eu programmes. it states that algeria contributes financially to the general budget of the union for all the programmes in which it participates.
in writing. ‒ since 2013, algeria has been participating in the eu's european neighbourhood policy. in this context, this north african partner can access certain european programmes. i voted in favour of the country's access to these programmes which will help to boost our political and economic relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, for which i am the epp's fictitious rapporteur, which gives the european parliament's approval and invites the council to approve the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the eu and algeria on the general principles for the participation of algeria in european programmes, on behalf of the union. under the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to enp partner countries is one of the many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the union's neighbourhood. the objective of the protocol is to define the financial and technical rules allowing algeria to participate in certain union programmes. the aim is to strengthen economic, financial and technical cooperation, which allows access to assistance, in particular financial assistance, to be provided by the union under european programmes.
in writing. ‒ in this report the european parliament allows itself to decide on the way in which algeria should participate financially in the programmes of the european union. the interference is total, it is up to algeria and it alone to decide whether or not it wants to participate in the european union's programmes, and to decide how it wants to intervene with its money and that of its citizens. the european union cannot substitute itself for the states in international relations with their extra money. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the new european neighbourhood policy (enp) towards a 'neighbourhood in transition' was theoretically designed to provide increased support to partners working to deepen and better guarantee democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the level of eu assistance to partners should evolve in line with progress in 'political reforms and deepening democracy'. algeria has chosen to join the enp and this protocol follows both for the euro-mediterranean agreement and for access to european programmes in the strict sense. it is therefore difficult to judge its relevance from both the eu and algerian perspectives. i voted in favour, however, because i considered it to be a purely technical agreement.
in writing. ‒ the subject of this report is deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic, which is mainly carried out by traditional coastal fleets (portugal) and large nomadic trawlers (france, spain). it is practised in union and international waters governed by agreements within the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc). measures taken so far have not solved the problem of overfishing, due to the high vulnerability of these stocks. some of them can no longer withstand the pressure of fishing and their replenishment may prove very long or even impossible. bottom trawling damages vulnerable and irreplaceable marine ecosystems and trawl fishing for deep-sea species leads to high levels of bycatch. the new regulation provides for stricter regulations: a ban on trawling below 800 metres, a freezing of the footprint (obligation for vessels to fish only in areas already exploited between 2009 and 2011), increased on-board controls and penalties and greater transparency of the activity. i voted in favour of this regulation and against the amendment rejecting it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to tighten the conditions for fishing in deep-sea and international waters, as the current regulations do not guarantee sustainable and reasonable fishing, capable of protecting extremely fragile ecosystems. french jobs will not be affected because this is a sector in which our companies are absent. i voted against the rejection of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and therefore against the rejection amendment concerning the regulation of deep-sea fishing, particularly in the north-east atlantic. this fishery has been regulated since 2003, but the current regulations do not solve the problems of overfishing, in particular because of the high vulnerability of the stocks. in addition, bottom trawling damages vulnerable and irreplaceable marine ecosystems and trawl fishing for deep-sea species results in high levels of bycatch. finally, while we could previously have been concerned about the effects on employment in france of the ban on deep-sea fishing, the problem no longer arises in the same way since scapêche, the only french operator in this sector, is gradually withdrawing from deep-sea fishing under pressure from environmental organizations.
in writing. ‒ the protection of deep-sea ecosystems and the safeguarding of fish stocks require increasingly stringent measures and more effective controls. since this report is in that direction and since the measures proposed will not affect employment in france, i voted for this report and against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the current regulations provide for restrictive technical measures against certain fishing gear and prohibit deep-sea fishing in certain areas. however, these restrictions are insufficient to ensure sustainable fishing and to protect these particularly fragile ecosystems. the proposal for a regulation aims to tighten up the current legislation, inter alia by banning trawling below 800 metres and by strengthening controls and penalties. we believe that this report will help to protect marine resources and limit environmental damage without threatening employment in france as scapêche, the only operator in this sector, is gradually withdrawing from deep-sea fishing. that is why i voted in favour of this text and opposed the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced report which preserves both the marine environment and deep-sea species, but also makes it possible to enhance the sustainability of fisheries. we have sought and obtained an agreement which is economically and ecologically sustainable and profoundly european. i am also pleased that by-catch is allowed up to 11.5 tonnes per year, but is supervised and controlled. now, deep-sea fishing is prohibited beyond 800 metres and vessels must avoid any vulnerable marine ecosystems between 0 and 400 metres. the presence of observers on board vessels allows the collection of data useful for the knowledge of species with very slow maturation. the implementation of this text will reduce the impact of this fishery on the seabed, while preserving a sustainable fishing activity necessary for our european market and jobs in coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to establish specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in international waters of the north-east atlantic. the aim of this text is to ensure better management of fish stocks in this region, whose replenishment rate is particularly vulnerable to overexploitation. as such, it prohibits bottom trawling at a depth of more than 800 metres. at the same time, although deep-sea fisheries account for only around 1% of landings from the atlantic, many fishermen depend on this type of fishery to maintain their activity. i have supported this report because i believe that a balance has been struck in favour of the positions defended by my group.
in writing. i have approved the regulation establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. deep-sea fishing, if unregulated, represents a considerable risk to the sustainable management of fish stocks. that is why we have adopted this regulation, which controls deep-sea fishing by making it subject to authorisation, prohibiting fishing at depths of more than 800 metres, delimiting the areas in which it can be carried out and imposing an increased presence of scientific observers on board vessels.
in writing. ‒ deep water is the largest ecosystem on the planet, but also one of the most sensitive. deep-sea trawling is a fishing method that destroys the deep sea. equipped with metal plates, the nets plough the seabed, crushing and damaging ecosystems that take several thousand years to rebuild. to combat this scourge, the eu has just approved a total ban on fishing below 800 metres in european waters. this is a world first. it is vital for the balance of the seas and for the balance of fisheries itself, in particular for small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing, to allow these resources to be renewed. these are common goods and must be protected. so this decision is excellent news.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and against the amendment to reject it. deep-sea fishing is carried out in eu and international waters governed by agreements within the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc). in the european union, this fishery has been regulated since 2003. these regulations, which often include technical measures such as the ban on gillnets, have not solved the problem of overfishing. in addition, bottom trawling damages ecosystems, with 20 to 40% of catches being by accident. the new proposal for regulation is therefore more stringent. it provides, in particular, for a ban on trawling below 800 metres and for increased on-board checks and penalties. initially in favour of deep-sea fishing because of the jobs involved, the front national notes the gradual withdrawal of the only french company active in this sector of activity. we no longer have any reason to support this practice, which causes certain environmental problems.
in writing. ‒ for the report and against the rejection amendment: the current regulation provides for restrictive technical measures against certain fishing gear (ban on gillnets) and prohibits deep-sea fishing in certain areas. but these restrictions are not enough to guarantee sustainable fishing and protect these particularly fragile ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which is a satisfactory compromise between a total ban on deep-sea fishing and the protection of marine ecosystems. the damage caused by trawlers can be irreplaceable for both the environment and stocks because of the high rate of bycatch. nevertheless, the restrictions prescribed by the current regulations seem to be able to guarantee effective protection. the expertise of scientific observers will help to determine with certainty the potential for a sustainable level of fishing. i voted against the council's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs isabelle thomas, on deep-sea fishing. the report aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea stocks while minimising the environmental impact of this fishery. one of the main aims of the text is to improve scientific knowledge of deep-sea species and their habitats. i supported this agreement, which i consider to be balanced in that it allows for sustainable fishing of deep-sea species while ensuring the preservation of vulnerable ecosystems and the conservation of deep-sea stocks, which are characterised by very slow growth. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i have approved at second reading this report which lays down specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the same ocean which are intended to protect the ecosystem. the north-east atlantic high seas fisheries target species that are slow growing and particularly vulnerable to overexploitation. this report prohibits bottom trawling targeting deep-sea species which will protect vulnerable marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ by voting on the report by the socialist isabelle thomas, parliament reverses a vote in december 2013 which authorised deep-sea trawling, but which can have catastrophic effects on the seabed and its ecosystem. the fisheries will therefore be limited to a depth of 800 metres and will be supervised by scientific observations and the recording of catches. it is not a question of banning vessels with this type of equipment, there are 760 of them, but of banning the use of this heavy equipment in fragile areas - the deep sea - which we still know very little about. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i am rather in favour of the report entitled 'the north-east atlantic: deep-sea stocks and fishing in international waters' and therefore voted against the rejection amendment. i consider the report to be a good compromise. it works to protect marine ecosystems, but does not advocate a total ban on deep-sea fishing.
in writing. ‒ an amendment proposed here was to reject the text drawn up by the committee on fisheries. the text proposes stricter regulation of deep-sea fishing in order to solve several problems: firstly, the vulnerability of the stocks of these fish; secondly, the damage to marine ecosystems caused by these large deep-sea trawls; and finally, the uncertainty about the sustainability of these fishing levels. to overcome these problems and to safeguard the future, i support the introduction of more restrictive measures and i support this report. i therefore voted against the amendment which sought to reject this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's proposal. the council proposal aims to strengthen restrictive technical measures against certain deep-sea fishing gear in the north-east atlantic. the current regulations already provide for certain restrictions, but they are not sufficient to protect the very fragile ecosystems and to guarantee sustainable fishing in these waters. we therefore support this regulation as being favourable to the protection of marine resources.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading in plenary on 10 december 2013, trilogue negotiations were launched to reach an agreement in july 2016. trawl fishing in deep water is prohibited from 800 m and from 400 m for the areas called 'vulnerable marine environment'. in addition, the fishing footprint will be frozen and limited to areas where targeted fishing took place between 2009 and 2011. finally, parliament introduced new transparency rules, including the obligation to inform the public about european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to declare all catches (fish and vulnerable ecosystems). i wanted more and better. the negotiated outcome limits predation on the marine ecosystem while contributing to the sustainability of the fisheries sector. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the protection of stocks and the regulation of deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic. as this type of fishing is no longer profitable, the last french operator involved in this sector is gradually withdrawing. the damage caused to the environment and the marine ecosystem, not to mention the near-impossibility of restoring stocks, led me to vote for this report, which will not have any impact on the french economic fabric, and to vote against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the current regulations provide for restrictive technical measures against certain fishing gear (ban on gillnets) and prohibit deep-sea fishing in certain areas. but these restrictions are not enough to guarantee sustainable fishing this is why fishing opportunities have been constantly reduced since the introduction of regulations. the text provides for stricter regulations: a ban on trawling below 800 metres, a freezing of the trawl footprint (obligation for vessels to fish only in areas already exploited between 2009 and 2011), increased on-board controls and penalties, and greater transparency of the activity. in addition, scientific data collection will be carried out by scientific observers who will be required to be on board 20% of the vessels. position in favour of the report and against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the current regulations provide for restrictive technical measures against certain fishing gear (ban on gillnets) and prohibit deep-sea fishing in certain areas. but these restrictions are not enough to guarantee sustainable fishing and protect these particularly fragile ecosystems. this is why fishing opportunities have been constantly reduced since the introduction of regulations. the proposal for a regulation was adopted by the committee on fisheries on 12 july. it provides for stricter regulation: a ban on trawling below 800 metres, a freezing of the footprint (obligation for vessels to fish only in areas already exploited between 2009 and 2011), increased on-board controls and penalties and greater transparency of the activity. in addition, scientific data collection will be carried out by scientific observers who will be required to be on board 20% of the vessels. overall, this text is a good compromise and i therefore reject this amendment rejecting the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text at second reading on the specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and the provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. the legislative resolution endorses the council's position and bans fishing in deep waters above 800 m (400 m in vulnerable areas). deep-sea trawling accounts for only 1% of european fisheries but causes serious damage to the environment. it was therefore necessary to introduce restrictions. the text adopted strengthens the controls and sanctions applicable to infringers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which validates the agreement reached in the trilogue on deep-sea fishing. this agreement will protect vulnerable marine ecosystems while protecting jobs and fishermen. the european parliament has thus obtained that specific sanctions be introduced for vessels infringing the regulation on deep-sea fishing and that a number of control rules are not exempted. parliament and council negotiators agreed to set a bathymetric limit of 800 metres. this new provision, which i support, aims to better protect the vulnerable marine ecosystems of the seabed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to limit bottom trawling in the north-east atlantic which destroys seabed habitats. a limit of 800 metres has therefore been set, beyond which fishing is prohibited, and this will help to protect vulnerable and fragile marine ecosystems. in addition, states will now be required to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems, on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to report all catches. finally, the eu has defined the area in which deep-sea fishing activities will be allowed, as well as specific sanctions for vessels that do not comply with the rules.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur, i was responsible for negotiating with the council the report on deep-sea fishing submitted to parliament, and i am pleased that it was adopted by a very large majority, with 634 votes in favour and 38 against. this vote is a reward for hard work and eight months of negotiations with the board. the agreement provides for a 'freezing of the footprint', i.e. the obligation for this fishery to be limited geographically to the areas already exploited between 2009 and 2011. it also provides for a ban on trawling below 800 metres. it shall strengthen controls and sanctions for infringers; it promotes better environmental knowledge through the collection of data on ships and the publication of studies on the impact on resources and ecosystems. this monitoring should allow the regulation to be adjusted to environmental realities. in 2012, a majority of meps rejected the commission's proposal to ban deep-sea fishing. we have worked with the council to develop regulations which take account of both environmental requirements and socioeconomic issues. this balance is the key to sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes better regulation of fisheries, particularly deep-sea fishing. this method is environmentally destructive for several reasons, bottom trawling damages vulnerable and irreplaceable marine ecosystems, trawling deep-sea species results in high levels of bycatch, and thus makes it impossible to replenish them. this text, while limiting fishing, will not have an impact on employment in france and will allow for better protection of the seabed. i therefore supported the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems is fundamental to the future of our planet. deep-sea species are particularly threatened by intensive fishing activities. the european union has agreed on new delimitations of fishing zones in the north-east atlantic, which are set at 800 metres deep. the restrictions apply below 400 metres where endangered species live. ships found to be in breach of the legislation will have to suspend their activities and move away from the area in question with at least five thousand seamen. this limit applies to all vessels with a deep-sea fishing stock of at least 8%. the european parliament introduced new transparency rules, including the obligation to publish the names of vessels fishing in deep-sea waters and the obligation to declare all catches. member states will have to provide information on sites containing species at risk. finally, the commission will evaluate the data annually and adjust the fishing areas authorised accordingly. the european union also regulates deep-sea fishing and prohibits trawling. i voted for it, of course.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this general revision of parliament's rules of procedure. i think it was important to clarify certain rules in order to make parliament work better by protecting it against certain disruptive political elements. this agreement, which is partly the result of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, should make it possible to improve the efficiency and transparency of the work of parliamentarians.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this revision of the rules of procedure because of the new restrictions it would impose on members: these limits would inter alia impede the monitoring function which the elected representatives of the people have the right and the duty to exercise. the new regulation would also not sufficiently guarantee the rights of members in minority positions. for example, all political groups would be entitled to propose at least one topic for a topical debate per year... except that if 80% of the groups in the conference of presidents oppose a proposed topic, it will not be chosen. this rule would serve to prevent patriotic parties and groups, which are unfortunately in the minority at the moment, from expressing themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against mr corbett's report on the rules of procedure of parliament because i believe that it undermines democracy by, among other things, greatly reducing the prerogatives of the so-called minority groups to the detriment of the two major parties in the establishment, the 'republicans' and the socialists. the constitution of a new group in parliament is made much more difficult, as is the representation of non-attached members who are forced to have an official coordinator without being able to have a say. in addition to the negation of this necessary pluralism of political parties, which has been obliterated, freedom of expression itself seems to be in danger in this parliament with sanctions against all speech that is considered to be outside the norm: although i obviously condemn violence, the very purpose of political mandates and the protection of the immunity of members is to be able to make their voices heard, even if they are dissonant. finally, parliamentary work itself tends to be controlled, with limited possibilities in terms of legislative procedures such as the reduction of the number of resolutions to one per month.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this revision of the rules of procedure because of the limits it will impose on individual members. these limits will impede the control function which the elected representatives of the people have the right and the duty to exercise. the new regulation also does not sufficiently guarantee the rights of members in minority positions.
in writing. ‒ this general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure is intended to increase transparency in the ancillary activities of members and to improve the efficiency of parliament's functioning. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. however, other elements in this amendment to the rules of procedure will hamper the parliamentary activity of members. firstly, the proposal to limit the number of written questions to 20 per quarter, while only one motion for a resolution per member may be tabled per month. the report will also help to restrict the freedom of expression of members of parliament, who are elected by the people of europe by direct universal suffrage. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation of the european parliament to improve transparency within it, even though in my view we have not gone far enough. this revision provides for more detailed financial statements for members and a strengthened code of conduct, so this is a good start to achieve greater transparency. i find it interesting that now a mandate from parliament as a whole is needed in order to be able to negotiate between members and the council with a view to concluding an agreement at first reading. this will help us to understand our legislative work better. finally, and this is a very good thing, from the next parliamentary term onwards the groups will be able to appoint their own members as chairmen and vice-chairmen of committees.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure, which governs the internal organisation and work of the institution. among the main measures, the report proposes a package of measures to improve the transparency of legislative work and to avoid conflicts of interest for members, through a revision of the code of conduct. the report also aims to strengthen democratic control in the negotiations with the council of ministers by voting on the mandate of parliament's negotiator in plenary rather than in a parliamentary committee. the political groups will also be able to request thematic debates in plenary more easily. considering that this reform is aimed at improving the democratic legitimacy and integrity of the legislative work in the european parliament, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a general revision which aims to improve the functioning of parliament and clarify some of its regulations. i particularly support measures which will allow for greater transparency. i voted for the paragraph which proposes a ban on paid lobbying by meps who are directly involved in the eu decision-making process. i also voted in favour of the paragraph calling for the written declarations to be deleted, in the interests of greater efficiency in parliament's work.
in writing. - i voted against this amendment. this general revision of the rules of procedure has some positive aspects: the formal ban on members from holding paid lobbyist jobs, more complete declarations of members' financial interests, the ban on members from trading with lobbyists registered in the transparency register. the text also strengthens the penalties for defamatory, racist or xenophobic remarks: the member who makes such remarks would be suspended from his daily allowance for between 2 and 30 days and/or from participating in parliament's activities, among other things. however, this revision leads to further restrictions on the rights of the opposition. the main levers of action of members are strictly limited: a member may only put a maximum of 20 written questions over a period of 3 consecutive months and issue one motion for a resolution per month. written declarations are deleted. topical subjects for debate may be rejected by at least 80% of the groups in the conference of presidents.
in writing. ‒ vote against because of the limits it will impose on individual members. the new regulation also does not sufficiently guarantee the rights of members in minority positions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. under the guise of efficiency or adaptation, many of the provisions contained in the act reduce the individual rights of members, strengthen the prerogatives of groups over their members (in contradiction to the necessary independence of members) and those of large groups over small ones. i am referring in passing to the new vexatious measures against non-attached members, whose legality is questionable. but there is something worse: the possibility and even the freedom of expression of elected officials and opposition groups are restricted. i am thinking of course of the wonderful possibility of censoring speech within the chamber itself, which will make it possible to punish any member who does not comply with the multiculturalist doxa. i am also thinking of the organization of the legislative process, which aims to ensure that european laws are voted on only once, without debate, on the basis of the consensus reached in committee by a handful of rapporteurs and fictitious rapporteurs: restrictions on the tabling of amendments, separate or split votes, etc. paradoxically, while these laws govern the lives of 500 million citizens, the organisation of lobbying favours the big pressure groups. you have done a very good job: you have invented a parliament where it is more and more difficult to speak.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure, i wanted to advocate a global logic, i.e. to ensure coherence between the elections for the posts of president, vice-presidents and quaestors in the european parliament and the posts of president and commissioners for the european commission. we must have a uniform system for all, not secret ballot voting for one institution and roll call voting for the other.
in writing. ‒ in supporting my colleague richard corbett's report, i spoke in favour of improving the functioning and transparency of the european parliament, while at the same time preventing attempts to sabotage parliamentary activity. the amendment is also a means of putting an end to the tricks to 'improve' the statistics of members, which are in no way the real work of the legislature. several provisions were also adopted on the code of conduct for members to enhance ethics and transparency. meps will be automatically sanctioned in the event of defamatory, racist, xenophobic remarks or actions disrupting parliamentary activity. the new rules confirm the introduction of a 'legislative footprint' for rapporteurs to record contacts with interest representatives in the course of their work. above all, it will no longer be possible to have a paid job as a lobbyist. these new rules are really a step in the right direction, to make our assembly more ethical and efficient.
in writing. ‒ this highly technical text is a threat because of the various limits it imposes on members, the first of which is the obstacle that members will encounter in their monitoring function. the new rules of procedure also further restrict the rights of minority members and by their very nature prevent patriot elected members from proposing topical issues for debate. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr richard corbett, on the revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the purpose of this procedure is to make parliament's work more efficient and transparent by laying down certain operating rules. the new european parliament rules will, for example, strengthen the sanctions against members who make racist or defamatory statements and disrupt parliamentary activity, which i welcome. i also supported several provisions on transparency in line with my personal approach to the subject. i am in fact trying to publish every month on my website the list of stakeholders that my team and i meet as part of my european mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure because it will make it work better by clarifying certain rules.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the functioning of the european parliament, clarify the rules in force and improve transparency within our assembly, we have initiated a thorough revision of our rules of procedure. it is a highly technical vote, with no direct impact on the fate of our fellow citizens, but it is of real importance because we have decided to change the rules of the game between the political groups in our assembly and to clarify certain rules in the interests of greater transparency. the major innovation in this revision is the creation of a session of topical debates organised on the initiative of the political groups. i have, however, insisted on my opposition to several changes which i consider unnecessary. i voted against the abolition of written declarations, a mobilization tool which sometimes allowed members to bring to the attention of their colleagues a subject which is dear to our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure because of the limits it will impose on individual members. these limits will impede the control function which the elected representatives of the people have the right and the duty to exercise. the new regulation also does not sufficiently guarantee the rights of members in minority positions. for example, all political groups will be allowed to propose at least one topical debate topic per year. if 80% of the groups in the conference of presidents are opposed to a proposed subject, it will not be adopted. this rule will be used to muzzle the sovereignist and patriotic forces. in the field of censorship, the rule sanctioning racist and xenophobic remarks should also be denounced. this should not concern me, except that these accusations are being used wrongly and across the board in the ep.
in writing. - i opposed this revision of the regulations. it restricts the freedom of action and expression of members, who are nevertheless the voice of the people in the european parliament. the new rules also do not sufficiently protect the rights of members in minority positions (non-attached, small groups, etc.). for example, all political groups will be allowed to propose at least one topical debate topic per year. if 80% of the groups at the conference of group chairmen are opposed to a proposed subject, it will be rejected. this rule is therefore a quick way to gag small groups, and therefore the most patriotic. these abusive amendments are therefore inadmissible.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this text is to revise parliament's rules of procedure and contains many positive elements, such as greater transparency and the prohibition of the combination of the functions of members and paid lobbyists. however, there are limits to the number of individual members. the control function of members will be reduced and the new rules do not sufficiently guarantee the rights of members in minority positions.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure is intended, under the guise of 'simplification', to reduce the powers of members of parliament. this includes restricting the possibilities for expression of the 'small' political groups in order to increase those of the 'large' ones. the thresholds for tabling amendments, requests for nominative votes (rcvs) and motions for resolutions have been reduced to three main thresholds (5%, 10%, 20%) which allow the large groups (epp and s&d) to act alone when the smaller groups are prevented from doing so. the revision of the rules of procedure also increases the political power of the groups to the detriment of members. the seats on the committees and delegations will thus belong to the political groups, which will have the freedom to allocate them among their members. in a general aim of limiting the expression of the views of members, members will no longer be allowed to table written statements and will be able to make only one oral explanation of vote per day. the pseudo-elected ratings agencies will be better at waxing the pompoms of those who pay them. the european parliament is not a political body, but a political body. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this revision of parliament's rules of procedure will lead to a tightening of the rules allowing members to exercise their mandate and will deprive minority or individual members of certain controls which they have the right and duty to exercise. on the other hand, this revision does not sufficiently ensure the rights of minority meps, thus reinforcing the limitation of the democratic functioning of the european institution. that is why i voted against this amendment.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this revision of the rules of procedure because of the limits it will impose on individual members. these limits will impede the control function which the elected representatives of the people have the right and the duty to exercise. the new regulation also does not sufficiently guarantee the rights of members in minority positions. for example, all political groups will be allowed to propose at least one topical debate topic per year. if 80% of the groups in the conference of presidents are opposed to a proposed subject, it will not be adopted. this rule will be used to muzzle the patriotic forces. in the field of censorship, the rule punishing racist and xenophobic or defamatory remarks should also be denounced. it allows the administration and other elected representatives the right to censor, under the cover of this rule, any speech that would criticize, for example, the policy of welcoming migrants. of course, all this is done for the political purpose of silencing eurosceptics.
in writing. ‒ the president of parliament now has the possibility of deleting entire passages of certain speeches from the audiovisual archives that he does not like. it's like stalin came up with the idea. the european parliament's powers of inquiry are also considerably reduced, further diminishing the already limited interest of this a-democratic institution. i am naturally voting against this aberrant report which proves once again that the urss deserves its nickname.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure, which governs the legislative procedure and more generally the functioning of our institution. this revision makes parliament's organisation more transparent and more efficient. it allows for the abolition of certain provisions which have become obsolete, and prohibits any paid lobbying work for meps in order to avoid conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these new rules: they should allow the european parliament to function better and improve transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to amend the european parliament's rules of procedure in order to improve its functioning, increase financial transparency and strengthen the code of conduct of members, particularly with regard to interest representatives. the new rules will also make it possible to increase the protection of members and the legislative work against defamatory attitudes and speech. it is important that no racist speech be tolerated within our institution under penalty of sanction. these provisions will also make it possible to increase the transparency of legislative work, in particular during the negotiation process, and to improve the efficiency of parliamentary work by limiting the number of written questions, motions for resolutions and calls for votes by roll-call in plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report amending the parliament's rules of procedure. first of all, it contains a series of measures to improve the efficiency of parliamentary work. in order to avoid unnecessary slowing down of the procedure and to avoid artificially inflating the statistics of members at the end of their term of office, the number of written questions by members, motions for resolutions and oral explanations of votes in plenary has been limited. the report also suggests abolishing written declarations, or at least limiting the number of such declarations. the report also amends the code of conduct for members of parliament to strengthen the obligations of parliamentarians in terms of ethics and transparency. in particular, meps will now be automatically sanctioned for any defamatory, racist or xenophobic remarks they may have made. a legal footprint has been introduced, requiring rapporteurs to record any meetings with lobbyists during the drafting of their reports. finally, an absolute incompatibility has been created between the mandate of a member of parliament and the employment of a paid lobbyist, and the functioning of the intergroups will now be more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which amends the parliament's rules of procedure. the aim of this revision is to strengthen transparency in the european parliament and the code of conduct for members. i would also like to stress that the text calls for incumbent members not to engage in paid lobbying activities in a professional capacity which are directly related to the decision-making process of the union. finally, it should be noted that the political groups will be able to request topical debates to be held in plenary. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which aims to strengthen the transparency, efficiency and democratic character of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this revision of the rules of procedure is intended to subtly muzzle those elected members who have the misfortune of being in a minority in the european parliament. to this end, it proposes, among other things, sanctions against 'xenophobic, racist and defamatory speech', which the european parliament has hitherto used unofficially to denounce the positions of our group, or a quorum of 80% to put on the agenda or not a topical debate proposed by a political group (a figure cleverly chosen to prohibit any proposal by opposition groups). i voted against this report and i strongly opposed it.
in writing. ‒ improving the functioning and efficiency of the european parliament is a concern shared by all. the report proposes a series of measures to eliminate inconsistencies and redundancies in parliament's rules of procedure, and some technical changes are indeed in that direction, such as better distribution and taking into account gender or member states, or access to confidential information for parliamentary committees, the european citizens' initiative or the regulation of lobbying activities. but these technical reforms do not hide the main purpose: the preeminence of the major political groups and the limitation of the individual rights of parliamentarians - a way for the groups to better maintain their internal majority. the powers of the president of parliament are also strengthened. the expression of diversity of opinion is the foundation of any self-respecting democracy. it is not a luxury that is denied to us to accommodate a majority and increasingly contested institutional choices. the citizens of europe deserve better. i voted against this report.
in writing. - this annual report contains no less than 138 paragraphs. as in previous years, there are several passages which bear witness to an extreme immigrationism. in particular, it encourages member states to allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes for migrants. the text also attacks freedom of expression. it is concerned about the increasing presence of hate speech on the internet; recommends that member states put in place a simple procedure allowing citizens to report the presence of hateful content online; welcomes the presentation by the commission of a code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech online and calls for adherence to the current and ongoing efforts to strengthen cooperation with the private sector and civil society. of course, the report also makes a lot of reference to lgbtiq propaganda and the promotion of abortion. i voted against this very politically correct report, which reveals the ideology of the european pseudo-elites.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the conclusions of this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. indeed, some events have had a negative impact on the protection of fundamental rights, especially for certain categories of the population such as refugees, children and women. it is therefore important to recall here that these rights have no political affiliation and must be universally protected. but they cannot be taken for granted in view of the actions of some. it is therefore necessary to continue to promote respect for these rights in the union.
in writing. ‒ this lengthy and tedious annual report contains, as in every year, several passages which testify to a delusional immigrationism. it encourages member states to allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes for migrants (§25). the text also addresses freedom of expression: it is concerned about the increasing presence of hate speech on the internet; recommends that the member states put in place a simple procedure allowing citizens to report the presence of hateful content online; welcomes the presentation by the commission of a code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online and calls for adherence to the current and ongoing efforts to strengthen cooperation with the private sector and civil society (§57). this is a blatant attempt to censor public discourse, arrogating to itself the right to define what would be "hateful content", that is, of course, what would go against the dominant ideology. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i have of course opposed this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015, as it is a concentration of immigration propaganda and regulated infringements of freedom of expression. the member states are thus urged to establish legal and safe channels of immigration, even though the flood of migration has already weighed heavily on the european populations, who are becoming increasingly concerned as public authorities give priority to welcoming foreign populations over native ones. the report also threatens the principle of freedom of expression, which is enshrined in the european treaties, by requiring the member states to introduce a procedure which i would call a genuine reporting procedure, since every citizen should be able to report the presence of 'hateful' content, even though this is a highly subjective criterion. finally, the commission, to the detriment of any respect for national prerogatives, is appointed as the chief censor with the presentation of this code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech online .
in writing. ‒ this report calls on member states to allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal entry routes for illegal migrants. at a time when the peoples of europe are suffering the full effects of mass unemployment, growing poverty and social inequalities, it is truly scandalous to see the european union prioritise the interests of illegal migrants over those of our fellow citizens. the text also infringes freedom of expression by calling for stricter controls and sanctions on content on the internet. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. it is very important that human rights are respected within the european union. this is particularly true at a time when the union is facing unprecedented challenges. we cannot properly talk about respect for human rights in third countries if we do not do the same in our own country. the european union was built on common values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. we must do everything we can to ensure that these values are respected within the union. the vote on this report gave me the opportunity to reiterate my position in favour of ratifying the european charter for regional or minority languages of the council of europe. we must defend the right to use a minority language in order to protect our linguistic diversity.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report covers the situation of fundamental rights in the union in 2015, in particular the protection of fundamental rights and dignity, migration management, integration and social inclusion, freedom and security, trafficking in human beings, and violence against women. considering that, in the face of the challenges facing the union such as terrorism or migration flows, respect for fundamental rights deserves particular attention, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which presents a complete and balanced picture of the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. the european union is built on a foundation of common values which we must defend. as rapporteur for my political group on the state of prisons in europe, i felt it was particularly important to denounce the inhumane and degrading conditions of detention in some member states where prisons are all too often overcrowded and in an explosive situation. it was also essential to stress in this report the need for better cooperation and exchange of information between member states in the face of radicalisation and terrorism for a genuine security union, of course in full respect of fundamental rights and freedoms. i also support the proposal that member states should have a simple procedure for citizens to report hateful content online.
in writing. the european union ensures respect for the principles inherent in democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, both within the union and at international level. these values are enshrined in the treaty and the eu charter of fundamental rights. however, violations of these rights occurred in europe in 2015, primarily against migrants and refugees. they must be able to be received in dignified conditions and enjoy the rights they enjoy under international conventions. it is essential that the union and its member states contribute to the promotion of european values of solidarity and integration. this is the very meaning of the european pact on fundamental rights which the european parliament called for last october. the commission must be able to take more systematic action against a member state which does not respect our european values.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report, which is 138 paragraphs long and full of good intentions, focuses on 'hate speech' on the internet, which should be more closely monitored, and on member states' immigration policy, in particular the need to allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes for migrants. we cannot support this liberty-killing text under the guise of defending fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ vote against: as every year, there are several passages which show an extreme immigrationism. the text also attacks freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the parliament reports on the human rights situation in the european union, which is necessarily bad or about to become so. this report is the occasion for intense pro-immigration propaganda or for any minority, especially if it is loud. there are rights that this kind of report, the pinnacle of european political correctness, never addresses: the right to freedom of expression of a dissenting opinion, notably on immigration, or in the moral field, any dissent being described by you as "hate speech"; the right to have the views of the people expressed in their votes taken into account, with respect and without stigma; the right to protect its culture, its way of life, its customs and its millenary values for every european people on its territory, the identity of europe and its members not being reduced to the 'humanist' right to which you are so attached; the right to security, the first of freedoms, is constantly undermined by your policies, the most terrible consequence of which is the attacks of the last few months. the result of your logic is that the majority of europeans will soon have only one right: to suffer in silence.
in writing. ‒ in a europe beset by doubts and uncertainties, the european union must focus on strengthening and guaranteeing the fundamental rights on which it was built. the own-initiative report by mr nagy places particular emphasis on the issues of freedom, security and minorities and people in great difficulty. the rise of populism and the increase in violence within the european territory have reminded us that fundamental rights are at risk and that it is the responsibility of the european parliament to enforce them. that is why i wanted to support the own-initiative report by mr nagy, as did my group in this parliament, so that the rule of law remains the cornerstone of european democracy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this annual report of the european parliament on fundamental rights as it highlights the main issues faced in 2015 and proposes public policy objectives. the original draft report by the epp rapporteur omitted certain fundamental rights or suggested problematic elements, notably on migration, minorities and social rights. in the negotiations with the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs, our group has managed to include the fact that the rights of women, the lgbti community, roma, and unaccompanied minors must be protected, which i welcome. finally, i welcome the fact that some amendments have been supported in plenary. these include sexual and reproductive rights, the fight against violence against transgender people, and the right to protection against exclusion and poverty.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union in 2015 as some of the amendments adopted distort the report as it was originally drafted. the amendments of the extreme left adopted with the complicity of the socialists and the extreme right do not reflect the reality of the facts but a certain conception of reality that we are taken for granted. this is all the more regrettable as the report makes a realistic assessment of the situation of vulnerable groups such as children, women, the disabled and the elderly. the report also proposed an analysis of migration and integration in the member states, with due regard for the distinction between migrant, refugee and asylum seeker. i would like to point out, however, that i do not share the recommendations concerning the promotion of regional and minority languages which run counter to our principle of indivisibility as laid down in the french constitution. finally, i do not understand this obsession to want to impose a systematic assessment of the gender dimension in all legislative proposals when it does not make sense for purely technical texts such as, for example, the framework for the use of mercury.
in writing. ‒ driven by its desire to push member states to allocate more funds for the reception of migrants, this report is still too imbued with pro-immigration ideology, just as it seeks to curb freedom of expression under the pretext of fighting hatred. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr nagy, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015, a text which aims to take stock of the situation and the challenges facing the eu in this area. the rapporteur, who was supposed to cover such diverse and complex subjects as the rule of law, the rights of children, minorities, women, the elderly, disabled people and security, achieved a balanced result. the text also addresses the issue of digital rights, which is rarely highlighted, including the protection of personal data and raising awareness among young people of the dangers of the internet. it is important that the legislator adapt to technological developments; i am therefore involved in these issues in my work for the committee on culture. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the protection of fundamental rights in the member states of the european union. covering subjects as diverse as the rule of law, children's rights, minorities, women, the elderly, the disabled and security, the report achieves a certain balance. the report finds that, although the charter of fundamental rights has become a fully-fledged component of the treaties, violations of fundamental rights still occur in the eu and its member states, demonstrating the continuing need to ensure respect for these rights in our member states. the text also focuses on the rise of euroscepticism and the expression of violent political positions. the european parliament has called for greater citizen participation so that europeans can express their concerns through democratic means, the only antidote to populism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. as in previous years, there are several passages which bear witness to an extreme immigrationism. it encourages member states to 'allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes' for migrants. the text also attacks freedom of expression. it is concerned about the increasing presence of hate speech on the internet; recommends that member states put in place a simple procedure allowing citizens to report the presence of hateful content online; welcomes the presentation by the commission of a code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech online and calls for adherence to the current and ongoing efforts to strengthen cooperation with the private sector and civil society.' i have no affinity for hate speech, but i denounce the use of this expression to criminalize any critical speech about mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ as every year, this text is full of extreme immigrationist passages. it encourages states to "allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes". it also urges member states to set up "a simple procedure for citizens to report the presence of hateful content online". it is a direct encouragement to delating, which i of course condemn. i could only vote against this annual report.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu is very clearly away from our political line by being particularly immigrationist. in particular, it wants to 'allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes' for migrants (§25), which we oppose. it also appears to infringe several freedoms of expression, for example by seeking to combat 'the increasing presence of hate speech on the internet' by introducing 'a simple procedure for citizens to report the presence of hateful content online'. we are of course critical of hate speech online but it is part of freedom of expression, a fundamental human right.
in writing. ‒ every year, the parliament takes stock of the respect for fundamental rights in the european union. the report contains positive elements on the rights of refugees and migrants and their social inclusion, the protection of whistleblowers, the evaluation of terrorist measures and the state of emergency. it condemns mass surveillance and supports the right to be forgotten, to control and to access personal data. he even advocates for lgbti rights, especially transgender rights and marriage equality. and this is the case even though the rapporteur is a right-wing person. that said, the report does not mention at any point the impact of austerity policies on these fundamental rights. it is only fair that he admits that the union's fight against poverty has not achieved its objectives. nor is there any mention of environmental rights, when the european commission is constantly polluting us with its gmos and chemicals, aided by the big lobbies in brussels. here too, corruption and shoe-shopping will not be covered. under these circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ this annual report is no different from the previous ones. it highlights the immigration policy pursued by europe at the expense of the member states by encouraging the latter to allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes for migrants. the report also recommends that member states set up a system for citizens to report hate speech online and welcomes the presentation by the european commission of a code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech online. considering that only the member states should be sovereign in managing migration policies and considering that the fight against certain discourses is just another attempt to muzzle those who oppose the eu's insane immigration policy, i opposed this report.
in writing. - this annual report contains no less than 138 paragraphs. as in previous years, there are several passages which bear witness to an extreme immigrationism. in particular, it encourages member states to 'allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes' for migrants (§25). the text also attacks freedom of expression. it is concerned about the increasing presence of hate speech on the internet; recommends that member states put in place a simple procedure allowing citizens to report the presence of hateful content online; welcomes the presentation by the commission of a code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech online and calls for adherence to the current and ongoing efforts to strengthen cooperation with the private sector and civil society' (§57). i vote against.
in writing. - this annual report contains no less than 138 paragraphs. as in previous years, there are several passages which bear witness to an extreme immigrationism. in particular, it encourages member states to allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes for migrants (§25). the text also attacks freedom of expression. it is concerned about the increasing presence of hate speech on the internet; recommends that member states put in place a simple procedure allowing citizens to report the presence of hateful content online; welcomes the presentation by the commission of a code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech online and calls for adherence to the current and ongoing efforts to strengthen cooperation with the private sector and civil society (§57). this text is therefore totally unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. the text maintains the confusion between migrants and refugees. it thus joins the european commission's call for action against illegal immigration with its irresponsible policy of migrant quotas. this highly unbalanced text considers that "immigration is part of the present and future of the european union" or "constitutes a demographic opportunity". i can't vouch for that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which reviews the situation of fundamental rights in the eu and addresses its main challenges in this area. it highlights a number of recurrent human rights violations that the eu must take into account. we need to act to increase the protection of citizens, especially children who are particularly vulnerable to online threats. we therefore call for increased powers and resources for europol and eurojust to combat paedophile networks, as well as awareness campaigns and school programmes to teach children about the potential risks of the internet. we must continue to fight every day for a europe that protects!
in writing. ‒ i spoke at the hearing to denounce the contents of this report. first, a series of paragraphs call on member states to better welcome migrants, for example with a call 'to allocate sufficient resources to the creation of legal and safe entry routes'. secondly, i am concerned to see references in this report to the increasing presence of hate speech on the internet. there are indeed such things, but the opacity of the text and the debate leads me to believe that the purpose of the text is above all to restrict freedom of expression, to prevent any political criticism from polluting the brussels microcosm of our elites. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report makes good findings but unfortunately tends towards solutions at european level. while it wants to put in place measures to preserve european know-how, the eu wants to use the development of these cultural and creative industries for its 'cultural diplomacy', the digital single market. the report is also obsessed with the mobility of artists, the pretext for facilitated visa procedures for third countries and the demand for ever more funds, which makes no sense if the effectiveness of the programmes has not yet been demonstrated and if the funds already available are not used to the full. therefore, despite the relevant findings on the potential of smes in the cultural and creative industries sector, whether in terms of innovation, resilience or protection of european cultural heritage and know-how, i regret the europeanist approaches developed there. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i think it is more than necessary to look at the issue of the creative and cultural sectors. it is important to cultivate, support, promote and defend cultural content. this requires stimulating innovation in these sectors, increasing monitoring of these sectors in order to provide them with appropriate solutions, and improving access to finance. all this will help us to enhance the 3,000 years of common cultural heritage that make up the european union's image in the eyes of the world.
in writing. ‒ there are interesting, sometimes very good points in this report, especially at the level of smes in the cultural and creative industries, but unfortunately it is tainted by a europeism which would undermine the sovereignty of the member states by wanting to implement an industrial policy at the level of the union rather than the states. just as the euro benefits only some countries and in effect harms others, a european policy at the sme level would risk serving some to benefit others. i preferred to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report on the cultural and creative industries, on which i was the fictitious rapporteur for my group. i believe that the findings on the potential of smes in the cultural and creative industries sector are correct: whether in terms of innovation, resilience or protection of european cultural heritage and know-how, the cultural and creative industries must be properly supported. the whole text could be retained if it were aimed at the industrial policies of the member states and not at an industrial policy at the level of the union. unfortunately, as usual, the union tends to want to take over the capacities of the member states. this is also the case in the area of copyright, which is the source of revenue for the creative and cultural industries and which the commission is seeking to regulate by means of a reform of the current directive, a reform which also risks allowing excessive exceptions to copyright. other points are also questionable, such as the european obsession with mobility, or the desire to increase the european funds for the programmes concerned without even ensuring that they are well managed.
in writing. ‒ the evidence on the potential of smes in the cultural and creative industries is positive, whether in terms of innovation, resilience or protection of european cultural heritage and know-how. the whole text could be retained if it were aimed at the industrial policies of the member states, and not at an industrial policy at the level of the union. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to recognise the role and potential of the cultural and creative industries and to foster their development and outreach. these industries, which are difficult to relocate, are job-creators and help to bring about many innovations. this is why it is essential to put in place mechanisms to preserve european know-how while fighting against piracy and counterfeiting. the report also calls for the exclusion of the cultural and audiovisual services sectors from any agreement between the european union and third countries. it is particularly regrettable that these protections do not benefit other strategic sectors such as agriculture, the steel industry or the automotive industry. however, we are opposed to the creation of a common industrial policy in this sector. as usual, the european union is giving itself new prerogatives to the detriment of our national sovereignty. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative sectors in europe have a very high potential for innovation, growth and job creation. they provide more than 12 million jobs, or 7.5% of the union's workforce. the cultural and creative sectors are very important in that they help to preserve europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, but also because they contribute to europe's competitiveness in the world. for this reason, the union must provide a long-term political, strategic and legal framework for these sectors. this strategy must both create incentives for innovation and protect them. europe must become the world's leading power in innovation and knowledge. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, while the digital transition is now unavoidable, it cannot go against the tide of the sustainability of a living culture, which is a source of significant growth. in this sense, a level playing field must continue to be established to protect creators from the digital giants that constitute a monopoly. while creative content is now becoming more accessible, the income of creators has fallen dramatically. in respect of intellectual property and in order to defend creators, it is unacceptable that platforms continue to capture a large part of the added value created by creative content.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report recommends that the european commission develop a comprehensive and coherent long-term strategic industrial framework for the cultural and creative sectors and provide sufficient funding for the cultural and creative industries (ccis). meps want to boost the competitiveness of these sectors so that they can realise their potential for creating quality jobs and growth. to this end, the report proposes, in particular, a harmonised definition of ccis on which statistical data should be based. it also calls for greater cooperation between smes and research centres and universities to promote the integration of innovations into the economy. finally, the report proposes to diversify the tools and funds available to businesses to encourage investment. i support these objectives and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on a coherent european union policy for the creative sector. with over 12 million full-time jobs, the creative sector is undeniably an important part of the european economy. in order to develop this sector further, the union and its member states must ensure the consistency of their support policies. this should be reflected in the adoption of a harmonised definition of the sector, as well as in the development of a legislative framework addressing its most problematic challenges, for example, digitisation and copyright issues.
in writing. ‒ one of the strengths of the european economy is its capacity to create and innovate. the cultural and creative industries sector contributes 39% to the union's gdp. it employs more people than the automotive sector and is highly competitive internationally. in order for this sector to continue to develop, it is essential that it receives adequate political and financial support. however, compared to other european industries, it has relatively few financial support instruments at its disposal. to remedy this imbalance, two approaches should be advocated. on the one hand, the establishment of a genuine industrial policy framework to support culture in the long term. on the other hand, national policies that work in support of this european framework. our legislation must also provide answers to the problems raised by the digital revolution. for example, copyright must be modernised to protect creators and empower hosts and intermediaries, and thus enable everyone to enjoy the cultural offer in a fair and sustainable way. finally, it should be remembered that preserving the vitality of european culture is essential to the intellectual dynamism of our societies and helps to define our identity.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this report highlights some interesting facts about these industries, in particular that they are difficult to relocate and can play a key role in reindustrialisation and in the recovery of employment through training in manufacturing trades; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the agreements concluded with third countries. we also welcome the analysis on smes in the cultural sector. however, we do not support the commission's increasingly strong grip on this sector, particularly as regards copyright regulation. in addition, the emphasis on the single market and the mobility of artists seems to pave the way for visa facilitation for third-country nationals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there is a need for a legal framework for cultural and creative businesses, adapted to the digital age and enabling smes to collaborate with academic research centres. the report also provides for supporting the competitiveness of companies in the sector by facilitating their access to finance, notably through the juncker plan for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ culture is the indispensable cement of our societies, but it is also a dynamic industry, a source of growth: 12 million jobs and €509 billion of value added in the gdp of the european union. it is in this context that i supported this resolution, to say that the digital transition must be at the service of maintaining a living culture and quality creation where the benefits are fairly shared. european artists, creators and cultural enterprises must be supported in this, by creating a level playing field with the digital giants. today, creative content is becoming more accessible, distribution costs have fallen with technological evolution, yet creators have not seen their incomes increase in return. on the contrary, for some, it has fallen dramatically. a large part of the added value is captured by digital platforms that act as intermediaries between the creators and consumers of cultural products. this is not acceptable. we need an ambitious european strategy that combines industry, culture and creation, that respects diversity and quality in the digital age and that allows creators to make a living from their work.
in writing. ‒ the good ideas in this report go hand in hand with the bad ones because, while i welcome the importance given to the potential of smes in the cultural industry and their ability to protect culture and know-how, the issue of sovereignty is for me indisputable. if this report were to focus on the industrial policies of the member states rather than on the union as a whole, which it considers to be the only area of competence, it would have my support. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues christian ehler and luigi morgano on the eu's policy for the cultural and creative sectors. the report calls for a genuine european industrial policy in favour of the cultural and creative sectors, in particular by developing an adequate definition of the sector. the creative and cultural industries are predominantly smes and are the engines of employment and growth for the european economy. the aim of this initiative is to stimulate innovation and competitiveness in these industries by calling on the commission to increase funding for these structures. as a member of the committee on culture, i particularly support this text, which will serve as a basis for future european legislation. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the development of a comprehensive, coherent and long-term strategic industrial framework for the cultural and creative sector. the text calls in particular for sufficient funding for the cultural and creative industries (cci). it encourages coherence in member states' and union policies, and recommends more interactions between smes, research centres and universities. another recommendation of the report is to create a more favourable environment for investment and to support mixed forms of funding, such as public-private partnerships, which is favourable to the economy and will boost the cultural sector.
in writing. ‒ the economic and employment weight of the large creative and cultural industries sector is considerable. these are jobs, most of which are not transferable, and which have a very strong attraction for our younger generations. everything must be done to promote and develop this sector, to protect these creative and cultural industries from the threats of counterfeiting, smuggling and piracy, to establish permanent funding mechanisms through the consolidation of intellectual property rights, copyright, for example in the cultural sector. i therefore supported this report, which proposes 'a coherent european union policy for the cultural and creative sector'. with this report we finally have on the table a road map, a number of concrete action lines, which carry an ambitious vision for a proactive european strategy for the promotion and development of the creative and cultural industries.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on this text. this report contains many interesting points: the recognition of the potential of smes in the cultural and creative industries, the importance of copyright and the fight against counterfeiting, the promotion of manufacturing employment and craft skills... nevertheless, this constant desire to regulate and harmonize everything at the level of the union, while the member states have their own cultural policies or "cultural diplomacy", is highly detrimental. the result is a mixed impression of the text and the measures it proposes.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this report focuses on the importance and potential of cultural and creative industries. it also aims to promote their development and promotion. the rapporteurs stress that these industries have the advantage of being difficult to relocate, since they are often linked to specific cultural and historical skills, and that they can play a role in the reindustrialisation of europe. it is therefore necessary to put in place adequate measures to preserve european know-how. the report also takes up dominique bilde's initiative to exclude the cultural and audiovisual services sectors from any agreement between the union and third countries. on the other hand, it envisages an industrial policy for the european union, which we oppose. that is why we cannot support this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to support the cultural and creative sectors. that's very interesting. in addition to the contribution these sectors make to human intelligence, they account for five times more jobs than the chemical industry. we still have to agree on the covert jobs. i do not think that advertising actors and policies on heritage protection, for example, can be equated. or even less so, to strip paul to dress jacques, when the european budget is the one that fills the juncker fund. the report also supports the digital single market and a european intellectual property right, which is vague and will be defined by the european commission in its next directive. finally, i am puzzled by the proposal to combat piracy which seems to be turning into a european hadopi. however, the report is clearly committed to defending european know-how and promoting 'excellent' craftsmanship. it defends precarious workers in the cultural sector and is unanimous on the 'cultural exception' in agreements with third countries. under these circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ this report makes a rather interesting observation on the cultural and creative sector, recalling the need to combat counterfeiting and piracy, the introduction of measures to preserve european know-how, the exclusion of the cultural and audiovisual services sectors from any agreement between the union and third countries (proposed by d. bilde). however, while the finding is positive, the solutions proposed in this report are much less so, since they are only agreed at european level, where the lack of homogeneity in terms of culture makes their implementation impossible. i therefore abstained on that report.
in writing. ‒ this joint itre-cult report by epp and socialist meps is a good report, but unfortunately it tends towards solutions at european level. this includes recognising the role and potential of the cultural and creative industries and taking action to promote their development and outreach. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ the assessment of the potential of smes in the cultural and creative industries sector is positive, whether in terms of innovation, resilience or protection of european cultural heritage and know-how. the whole text could be retained if it were aimed at the industrial policies of the member states, and not at an industrial policy at the level of the union. that's why i'm abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on a coherent community policy for the cultural and creative sectors. the text recalls that culture and creativity account for more than 12 million jobs in europe and a value added of more than €500 billion. it makes several proposals to support the cultural and creative sector, such as better integration into training courses or aid for its digitisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which calls on the european union to support artists in all aspects of their activities and european cultural enterprises. the cultural and creative industries in europe generate more jobs and growth than other important sectors such as the automotive or pharmaceutical sectors. culture, although it is not to be appreciated only from an economic point of view, represents 12 million jobs, or 7.5% of the union's workforce, and €509 billion of value added in gdp, or 5.3% of the union's total value added. it was therefore important that this sector be taken into account in the policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries (ccis) generate a lot of jobs but are largely composed of smes, which are particularly vulnerable to copyright infringement. to encourage their development, i voted for the commission to develop an effective strategy to make it easier for ccis to access european funds such as horizon 2020 or creative europe. it is also important that ccis be better defined in order to establish a legal framework that would protect authors and intellectual property. we must support the creative sector, which is the growth and driving force of europe's cultural industry!
in writing. ‒ the evidence on the potential of smes in the cultural and creative industries is positive, whether in terms of innovation, resilience or protection of european cultural heritage and know-how. the whole text could be retained if it were aimed at the industrial policies of the member states and not at an industrial policy at the level of the union, which prevents me from supporting it. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is positive in many respects. it proposes to promote public aid, avoiding its reclassification as state aid, for cultural heritage, to facilitate access to european funding for the cultural and creative sectors, and to ensure safer working conditions for cultural workers. i support all these positive aspects. i also welcome the request to the commission to adopt appropriate measures to facilitate the availability of attractive legal offers for works, including on a cross-border basis. easy access (and therefore a reasonable price) to creations is the only effective way of combating piracy, since the profit is too small to accept the risk of illegality. it is a pity that this is not explicitly stated in the text. this would have avoided the long lectures on the fight against piracy seen only from the repressive angle when prevention is the safest way to protect oneself. i also regret that nowhere is there any mention of the possibility of establishing designations of origin to promote our craft and to ensure that the economic benefits are actually enjoyed by the craftsmen. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the union's eastern partnership policy is directed at six post-soviet states: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. the report, as its title suggests, is reductive towards all women and is a clear interference by the european institutions in the institutional, political, economic and social systems of the countries concerned: communitization of victims, with a preference for women from ethnic minorities (roma) or lgbti, call for the establishment of a quota policy for women's access to positions of responsibility, especially in politics, interference in the diplomatic choices of the partner countries, heavy emphasis on the right to family reunification for women with family in the european union, call for the implementation of the recommendations of the so-called beijing platform for every woman to have access to her reproductive rights, including contraception and abortion... based on gender theory, it calls on states to punish 'insults and stigmatisation' against lgbti people in public spaces or in public services. the very vague terms of the directive give rise to legitimate fears that freedom of expression will be infringed in the end. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. the commission considers that the situation in this area needs to be improved in these countries. despite the inclusion of women's rights in the respective constitutions of these states, gender stereotypes remain significant, not only preventing greater participation of women in the labour market and political life but also opening the door to social acceptance of gender-based violence and undeclared domestic violence. therefore, there is a need for these countries to take immediate action to strengthen gender equality in society.
in writing. ‒ this report is a real insult to women, reducing them to the status of eternal victims. it is also a brutal interference in the politics of the states concerned, as well as a pro-communitarian and immigration attitude. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i have of course opposed this report, which is a collection of ideological slogans that are in fact insulting to all women, but also a typical example of the manifest interference of the european institutions in the institutional, political, economic and social systems of the countries concerned. it is clearly based on the famous gender theory that gender stereotypes should be deconstructed from school onwards (paragraphs 6, 22). women are scandalously communitarianised and thus reduced to their gender: poor, migrant, ethnic minority women (recital i), all potential victims of the status quo. i also oppose this call for the introduction of a quota policy for women's access to positions of responsibility, especially in politics (women are apparently not sufficiently capable of rising to these positions on their own through their skills and merit). finally, this report is outrageously immigrationist in that it uses women's rights to justify a further flood of migration, with the right to family reunification for women with family in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report makes interesting proposals concerning, among other things, trafficking in women, violence against women and child labour in these states. on the other hand, it interferes far too much in the diplomatic fields of these states, urges the establishment of quotas for women in positions of responsibility, conceptualizes the communitarianisation of certain groups such as roma or lgbti women, and finally advocates some form of migration to the eu from these states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the union's eastern partnership policy is directed at six post-soviet states: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. this report constitutes a clear attack on the european union in the institutional, political, economic and social systems of the countries concerned. the text does, however, denounce all forms of violence against women, including trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation and all forms of violence against women. but this report sets out a typology of women to be defended in priority, especially those from ethnic minorities or those from the lgbti group. it also called for the countries concerned to introduce a policy of positive discrimination in favour of women through a quota system and to promote family reunification. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the role of women in the stabilisation of the european neighbourhood policy. in particular, the report assesses the situation of women in several areas of crucial importance such as women's participation in decision-making processes, women's economic participation, violence against women, and the role of women in the peaceful settlement of conflicts. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership states. the eastern partnership, launched in 2009, is a joint initiative between the union, its member states and armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine. gender equality is one of the strategic priorities of the european neighbourhood policy for the period 2014-2020. calls in particular on the partner countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus to ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and to put in place national strategies. finally, efforts must be made to involve women more in the peaceful resolution of conflicts and in decision-making processes.
in writing. ‒ the eastern partnership aims to strengthen political association and economic integration between the union and six central european countries: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. this cooperation implies the sharing of fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, but also gender equality. the legal systems of the partner countries enshrine women's rights, but unfortunately practices remain discriminatory. women are underrepresented in the political sphere, with only 14% of ministers and 16% of parliamentarians, and in the economic sphere, the pay gap ranges from 24 to 50% depending on the country. over the past five years, €103 million has been allocated to 121 projects and programmes promoting gender equality in the european neighbourhood, including €5 million for the 'women in business' programme in the eastern partnership countries. the union must continue to promote gender equality with its partners. this includes, for example, technical assistance and the sharing of good practice in the field of governance and public administration reform.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text concerns six states: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. it draws its inspiration from gender theory: it calls in particular on states to punish insults and stigmatisation of lgbti people in public spaces or in public services. it also calls for specific protection for certain categories of women: poor women, women who are migrants, women from ethnic minorities. some points, such as the report on human trafficking, are positive. however, we cannot condone the unacceptable interference of this text in the politics of sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ while the report accurately denounces trafficking in women, violence against them and the problem of child labour, it is too negative. the european institutions' desire to intervene is compounded by the communitization of women and their reduction to the status of perpetual victims, as well as the defence of gender theory, so many factors that weigh heavily on the wrong side. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mariya gabriel on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. the eastern partnership is a european policy aimed at concluding agreements with countries such as armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. the report calls for a better fight against discrimination in the economic sphere, as in some countries women have very little access to senior positions. the text calls for greater efforts to be made at the societal level to combat violence against women. the report recommends a more operational approach, using the european neighbourhood instrument to support civil society initiatives, which are best placed to raise citizens' awareness of these issues. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to give greater importance to women's rights and gender equality in eastern partnership policies. the european neighbourhood policy aims to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity for all. women's rights must be fully integrated into the priorities of this framework. while these rights are well integrated into the constitutions and legal systems of all the partner countries, social discrimination and gender stereotypes remain significant. the text outlines several recommendations for achieving gender equality and strengthening women's rights in various fields.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is devoted to the issue of women's rights in the eastern partnership countries, and which is part of a genuine spirit of ever closer partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states on the one hand, and the eastern partnership countries - armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine - on the other. the challenges these countries face in terms of women's rights are similar to those we face within the european union, in each of our member states. however, there is also the challenge of human trafficking networks, which are the source of supply for modern slavers. we therefore need to have a strategic vision and a clearer commitment, which goes across all the aspects, all the policies of the eastern partnership, and make progress on women's rights a political priority in our dialogue with the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of good intentions or universal ideas (denouncing the sexual exploitation of women, fighting violence against women, protecting women and their children born or unborn), this report is just a terrible trojan horse for immigration, lgbt claims or the roma issue. the ideology of gender is permeating and gangrenous in this text, and it is also deeply ingrained in the politics of the states concerned. finally, women are only mentioned as eternal victims, which is reductive and even totally insulting to them. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this text is an example of european policy and more particularly of the interference of the european institutions in the institutional, political, economic and social systems of third countries. the rapporteur hopes that the eastern partnership countries of the european union will introduce quotas for women's access to positions of responsibility, particularly in politics, with a preference for women from ethnic minorities (roms) or lgbti. we consider this report to be a real insult to women, reducing them to the status of victims. finally, it is clearly a pro-immigration and pro-community report.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at women's rights in the eu's eastern neighbourhood: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. the eu maintains a policy of variable geometry, depending on its possibilities of interference, supporting here an independent press and there a pro-european opposition. that said, the purpose of this report is to support women's participation in the economic, social and political life of these countries, to support the rule of law, democracy and equality more broadly. he supports the introduction of electoral quotas, an autonomous marital status for women (rights not linked to the husband's consent) and sexual and reproductive rights. only 50% of women on average have access to so-called modern contraceptive methods! he's advocating for basic services for all. but of course, according to the report in ukraine, everything's fine. i think you're wrong. and the anti-russian propaganda in this report is childish. in the end, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report on the partnership between the european union and six post-soviet states (armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine) on women's rights is in reality a stigmatization of women, reducing them to the status of eternal victims. it emphasises the communitarianisation of victims with a strong preference for women from ethnic minorities or lgbti, urges the states concerned to introduce gender quotas and highlights the immigration-oriented desires of the union by insisting on the right to family reunification. i therefore opposed this report which is a total insult to women, but also another interference in the politics of sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ the union's eastern partnership policy is directed at six post-soviet states: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. the report is reductive towards all women, but also a clear interference by the european institutions in the institutional, political, economic and social systems of the countries concerned. it is based on the gender theory (paragraphs 6, 22). it calls on states to punish insults and stigmatisation of lgbti people in public spaces or in public services. the words insults and stigmatizations are very vague and there is a risk that freedom of expression will be infringed. and we can't classify people based on their sexual practices. finally, women are clearly communitarianised and reduced to their gender: poor, migrant, ethnic minority women (recital i). in the final analysis, the report is condescending towards women, reducing them to the status of eternal victims. this is clearly a pro-immigration and pro-communitarian report (migrants, lgbt, roma). vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report is a real insult to women, reducing them to the status of eternal victims. i also observe a total interference in the politics of the states concerned. finally, it is clearly a pro-immigration and community report (see the passages on migrants or roma). i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on women's rights in the eastern neighbourhood policy. the text urges the eastern partnership countries to take measures to strengthen equality between men and women, in particular in political responsibilities and the economic sector. it condemns domestic and sexual violence and its social acceptance. finally, it highlights some good practices supported by international organisations, such as the 'women in politics in moldova' project or the transcaucasian women's dialogue on peace and security.
in writing. ‒ under the eu's european neighbourhood policy, which aims to stabilise relations with its eastern neighbours, a partnership has been established with six countries from eastern europe and the caucasus. it is based in particular on respect for women's rights. however, we regret that social discrimination and gender stereotypes remain widespread in the countries concerned by this partnership. i therefore voted in favour of this report which describes this tragic situation for women and makes a number of recommendations to improve their situation and encourage their participation in the economic and political sectors in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ this report is a real insult to women, reducing them to the status of victims who cannot take control. in addition, several paragraphs are concerned with total interference in the politics of the states concerned, by forcing them to implement this or that initiative proposed by this or that member of the european parliament. finally, it is clearly a pro-immigration and community report aimed at giving migrants, lgbt people, or roma people specific rights on the pretext that they belong to a particular community. i voted against this report with a great deal of force.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the european commission, it is true that slovakia took over the rotating presidency of the council at a particularly difficult time, but the slovak presidency did not give up and was able to put forward issues which concern our fellow citizens, and on behalf of my group i would like to congratulate you on this. despite the reluctance of some member states, a solid budget was adopted, with over eur 157 billion in commitments, a budget which we still consider too minimalist, but the main elements of which have been preserved and on which we have been able to make improvements. the juncker plan has been extended, the budget for border security has been strengthened, the youth guarantee has been increased, the fight against tax evasion has been intensified, the posting of workers is under way, and trade defence instruments have been modernised. there is no growth without industry, and industry has also been at the heart of your presidency. it must continue to be, because it is the foundation of our current and future economy, and we need an ambitious industrial policy to safeguard our jobs and encourage innovation in new technologies. in this respect, the reform of the carbon market is moving forward, and will allow the development of low-carbon technologies to reduce the effects of climate change. the european space strategy is launched, a sector full of extraordinary possibilities in terms of applications and services. the eu is also moving in the direction of defence, where the lines are being crossed to improve cooperation at european level and to involve each member state in the defence effort. finally, the railway sector: we have voted a number of provisions in this framework to improve passenger transport, but this also means that our european equipment manufacturers will benefit from many advances in this field. progress also in the digital field - you said it very well - with clear commitments to end roaming charges, while preserving investments. the quality of networks and internet access remain major concerns for all europeans. as regards energy, the security of gas supply has been and will be a central topic of our discussions. regional cooperation and the exchange of information must be improved in this respect, that is european solidarity. i am also pleased that slovakia has continued and strengthened the work undertaken by the dutch presidency on access to innovative medicines for patients. i was pleased to see that the fight against alzheimer's and antibiotic resistance was high on your agenda. the slovak presidency was particularly successful in reiterating the central role of the vaccine as a prevention tool, particularly useful in preventing the misuse of antibiotics and the dangers that this generates. i have only one small regret, but only one small personal regret: no agreement has yet been reached on the new regulation on veterinary medicines, which is a pity, because antibiotic resistance is still one of our priorities. i have heard your call for more community spirit, for a fight against national selfishness. i hope that it will be heard, and in any case i thank you for all the concrete measures you have been able to put in place, which i hope will be heard and understood by our fellow citizens, in order to combat the demagogy of some who want to show that the european union is not making progress. in any case, thank you, the results are tangible and what i wish is that we can communicate what you have achieved.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur for his efforts to reconcile so many amendments. i am afraid, however, that the result is not up to the challenges we should be facing in the field of human rights and their necessary universality, nor the way the european union should act in this field. i don't think we've ever had such a long relationship. the longer it is, the more contradictions there are, the less we know what to prioritize, and i'm sorry. i am particularly critical of the part concerning migration. how can we unconditionally support readmission agreements, the khartoum process or the trust fund for africa, when these agreements and procedures are focused on countries where human rights are violated on a daily basis, as is the case in the horn of africa and the middle east, and when these agreements are primarily decided on the basis of the number of those who arrive to seek asylum on the territory of the european union. what does the insufficient objective of return policies do in a human rights report? how does the leap forward in defence policy serve human rights? moreover, despite the stated intention not to target any particular country, we still find the same obsessions that are dear to some in this house and the same forgetfulness. not a word about the gulf countries, not a word about israel, not even mentioning the countries most affected in latin america. yesterday, for example, guillermo veldaño, a farmer and trade unionist who defended the right to water, was murdered in colombia, where a quarter of latin american human rights defenders and activists are murdered. so all this is not very satisfactory, and i want to reiterate my reservations on the annex which lists prisoners of conscience. no, madam high representative, i do not share your optimism, i fear that all these contradictions... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how amusing it is to see you debating human rights in an institution which harasses and persecutes those who have committed the crime of being simply eurosceptic. just a few hours ago you voted for the richard corbett report, which will further restrict the freedom of expression of members of the european parliament. democracy is not simply a matter of putting a ballot in a ballot box, but is defined by the ability of a people to control their own destiny. the loss of our legislative, budgetary, territorial and monetary sovereignty has accelerated the decline of democracy in the member states of the european union. how dare you talk about democracy when you ratify free trade agreements like tafta behind the backs of the people and impose quotas on them without any consultation? how dare you speak of human rights when you handed libya over to the islamists by supporting the removal of gaddafi, the same islamists who today impose sharia law and slaughter religious minorities with utter indifference? how dare you speak of fundamental rights when the president of the european commission, mr juncker, has paid a vibrant tribute to fidel castro, who, i remind you, is responsible for the imprisonment and death of thousands of political opponents? enough of this variable geometry outrage! enough of this totalitarian europe which should sweep its own front door before it gives moral lessons to the whole world! (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is "blue cardboard". the beginning of a dictatorship begins with the decisions you sometimes make, namely, to prevent any opposition from expressing itself. the harassment of the members of the european parliament from the national front group is absolutely outrageous. yes, indeed, you can be sorry.
mr president, we have just seen the sakharov prize awarded to two young yazidis, but how can we fail to see in this gesture of the european parliament a tribute from vice to virtue? far from preventing the massacres, you have encouraged the destruction or destabilization of secular states that protected the minority. i am thinking in particular of the many christian communities, in particular the armenian church of syria, which used to be so well represented in aleppo. a volunteer from sos chrétiens d'orient, who is on the ground, told us a moment ago that there are still about three square kilometres in the hands of the al-nusra front. these islamists are preventing civilians from reaching the liberated areas. but you have always supported these so-called rebels, affiliated with al-qaeda, laurent fabius even going so far as to say that they were doing, and i quote, "good work". aleppo will soon be completely liberated, but the provinces of idlib and raqqa will have to be cleaned up. now we must prevent the surviving jihadists from returning to turkey and europe, but we must also break the dangerous links with their support of qatar and saudi arabia, links which were revealed only recently by pierre conesa for saudi arabia and by christian chesnot and georges malbrunot for qatar.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr kelam, you have very rightly referred to the sakharov prize winners, these two very courageous yazidi women who suffered at the hands of daesh. but even if we must, of course, support them, do you not think that you are still making a certain reduction in the belief that assad and putin should ultimately be blamed for what they are doing in aleppo? because let us not forget that they are fighting precisely daesh, which persecuted these two women. don't you think, mr. kelam, that you should be more nuanced?
madam president, long live president brok, who has become santa claus! i know him better as father fouettard, against those who dare to speak the truth, the evil populists who love the people. we must welcome the list of good intentions that is very appropriate for this christmas: peace, democracy, human rights, and, for that, european defence under the european tree. the reality is that a foreign and defence policy would require european sovereignty. it cannot exist because there is no real sincere convergence of interests. take, for example, the so-called franco-german couple. in each partnership, french interests are drowned in german politics, presented as european politics. i could give examples, i don't have time. the reality is that behind the vacuum of the discourse on european values lies the reality of the new imperialism, of that hegemonic will which has already cost europe so much. it is called economic war or imposed foreign policy, but it is still the same arrogance, the same contempt for other peoples, the same brutal domination. the reality is that behind the so-called common policy, there is also the action of groups of opaque influence, relays of the powerful oligarchies and criminal groups composed of both, such as the soros foundation, which prepared the migration policy of mrs merkel. john paul ii prophesied the imminent end of totalitarian liberalism, after that of totalitarian collectivism. that will be the end of your europe. the people are already expressing their revolt and that is why president juncker no longer wants to consult them. let us therefore betray the peoples of europe in the name of democracy and human rights! that's your policy. it is time to build a europe of cooperation and of nations, with respect for the freedom of peoples, but for that we must get out of your totalitarian europe. (the president agreed to answer a question by mr glinne)
the answer is 'blue card'. i believe that thanks to the intervention of russia - and i am merely saying what the bishop of aleppo also says - we have been able to restore the law, justice and respect for minorities that existed before, especially for the christian minorities, who lived much better than we do today, and that thanks to this intervention we have managed to restore some stability, we hope, for the future.
madam president, madam high representative, i have always considered your office to be a mission of near impossibility, given the scale of the task and the difficulty of the challenges. but i must say that, in the difficulty, there is also the difficulty of bearing many of the things you have to hear in this chamber today. freedom of expression does sometimes lead to aberrations and even lies, and i commend you for your courage in holding out until the end of this session. i have no doubt about the professionalism and dedication of many people, starting with yourself, who serve, i was going to say under the european flag, whether in the foreign missions in our delegations or in the external action service in brussels. these people are professionals, they're dedicated to the cause. but i must say that i still have my doubts about some of the elements of this system and this foreign policy which, by trying to do everything everywhere, with all the instruments at our disposal, does not make the european union sufficiently audible. unfortunately, we are still lacking - and this is largely the fault of the member states, of course - in this hierarchy of priorities which would make the european union really matter where it matters, and in particular in our immediate environment. i am very concerned to see the european union losing its environment, from ukraine to syria, libya and the horn of africa. these are places where we have carried out a lot of missions, where we have deployed a lot of personnel, where we have spent a lot of money, and we lose those places, we are no longer heard in them, we are no longer decisive, if we ever were. this raises questions about the priorities we must set and the concentration of resources we must invest, perhaps in a smaller number of areas, but where our action will be truly decisive. our credibility is first and foremost in our immediate environment, so i would ask you to put the package together for the coming year, to focus on issues that are really in our environment and that weigh on our stability. i am thinking in particular of the action you are taking, which i hope will be decisive, particularly for tunisia, which is an essential link in the chain of stability or instability which surrounds europe. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i think, sir, you had a translation problem. i specifically said that freedom of expression in this house had led to excesses and lies and, if you want an example of a lie that i heard this afternoon, i heard a member not far from where you are standing say that, thanks to the action of mr putin and mr assad in aleppo, daesh had been destroyed. i ask those people to take a lie; daesh is not present in aleppo. there are syrian opposition groups, which are armed groups, maybe terrorist groups, that's possible, but there is no islamic state in aleppo. that's the kind of lie you can hear. it is freedom of speech, but it is still a factual and objective lie.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, thanks to the european parliament's commitment to the outermost regions, we have succeeded in securing progress in the trilogue this afternoon on the protection of the outermost regions' bananas, and i would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this: the colleagues of the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur, the council and, of course, the european commission, which has played its full part. but also agree that the right approach would have been to integrate these demands very early on. remember, in the sugar agreement with vietnam, for reunion, we also had to act at the last moment, in a context which had become very tense and threatening. that is why i think, madam commissioner, that the time has come for us to sit down, the members of the ru and you, to draw up a trade policy which takes account of the interests of the ru on the basis of article 340.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, i have already had the opportunity to speak to you about the havana charter, and i will repeat myself again. the post-war havana charter was written to achieve a world of free trade and peace. to do this, there was the balanced exchange. surpluses were to be condemned, as were deficits. so, to offer fair trade, there had to be a balance. so yes to targeted support for economies in difficulty, yes to upgrading these economies, yes, finally, to openness and regional partnership, yes to this perhaps wider openness, but on the condition that we are in a free trade that is actually regulated. i think this is very important if we want trade to be peaceful and not economic war.
mr president, commissioner, the reduction in customs duties on entry into the community market, provided for in the trade agreements concluded between the european union and the banana-producing countries of south and central america, could have negative consequences both for the european market and for the already fragile socioeconomic balance of the outermost regions. this agreement with ecuador, the world's largest exporter of bananas, poses a direct threat to the community banana sector, which is the cleanest in the world. the tariff dismantling, which will soon be set at eur 75 per tonne on south american bananas entering the european market, goes further than the concessions made by the commission to the wto in 2009. despite the slight improvements - which i welcome - that were made to the text during today's trilogue on the stabilisation mechanism for bananas until 2009, i cannot bring myself to give a blank check to this agreement, and i am convinced that... (the president cut off the speaker)
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, their bureau, the political advisers and, of course, the secretariat for their work and the preparation of this vote in plenary. this is my first report as a member of the european parliament and i am honoured to have been rapporteur on this text, which european farmers have been waiting for so long. in the face of the violence of the crisis and the despair of the agricultural world, it was indeed urgent to address the question of volatility. the elected representatives of the peoples of europe cannot remain silent when agriculture is dying. my ambition as a member of the european parliament has been to bring solutions to european farmers first. we know that farmers see europe as a source of problems rather than a solution. it is quite logical that it is up to us as members of parliament to provide answers. tomorrow will be an opportunity for this parliament to show european farmers that europe is useful to them and that meps are aware of their situation. no, we're not off the ground. no, we're not disconnected from reality. no, we are not passively accepting the decline of european agriculture. on the contrary, we are in continuous contact with the agricultural world, to which i belong, as do other members of this house. we are aware of the catastrophe that threatens us. yes, we are aware of farmer suicides on a daily basis. yes, we know the desperation of farmers. yes, we are outraged that people working to feed their fellow citizens are dying in the general indifference. i have not come to parliament to sit idly by and watch our agriculture die. that's not my idea of politics. i am here to fight, to fight for agriculture, because, yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is a real fight. it is in this spirit that i propose that you vote on my report on the cap's tools for combating price volatility. my aim is simple: to get the commission to make proposals to us to combat price volatility. the main points of my report are: strengthening contractual arrangements between the various actors in the food chain, shifting the cap towards risk management tools, creating price observatories and strengthening existing ones to make markets more transparent, and improving crisis management tools to respond more quickly and effectively to emergencies experienced by farmers. these guidelines have been largely supported by my colleagues in the committee on agriculture. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs once again for the spirit of conciliation and respect in which we have reached these compromises. the adoption of this report coincides with a planetary alignment. the report of the task force on agricultural markets submitted to the european commission, published on 14 november, reaches the same conclusions as ours. the report on price volatility adopted by the committee of the regions last week makes the same proposals. this is an opportunity to make the voice of parliament heard. it is, once again, a great honour for me, as a farmer, to be reporting on such an important subject at a time like this. after reading the two reports, i am forced to propose the following two amendments for the plenary, for which i count on your support. the first on the establishment of a legislative framework to combat unfair trading practices, the second on the prevalence of the cap over european competition law, both of which are sources of price volatility. they therefore have their place in this report. last week, president juncker and you, commissioner, announced the adoption, before the end of 2017, of a communication on the future of the common agricultural policy. we can only be pleased to see the commission finally getting down to work on this matter. i hope, perhaps ambitiously but not unrealistically, that this report will serve as a basis for future commission proposals for the next policy by 2020. i am happy and proud to be part of this leading european construction project. i therefore count on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support my report tomorrow, so that it can weigh in on the commission's future proposals. the most important part of the job is ahead of us, the hardest part still to be done.
madam president, thank you for coming. i would first like to thank my colleague, mrs angélique delahaye, for her report on this subject of volatility. four years ago, when we were preparing the reform of the cap, the prevailing view was that there would be no more crisis, because all world prices were rising. we were not many to ask for tools, and it is clear that you were very happy, commissioner, to be able to use the few that were put at your disposal. they are not going far enough, we know that today. we must therefore, as has been said, use the omnibus to perfect the copy and give farmers back the tools for managing markets. volatility is first and foremost the fruit of obscurantism. the volatility affects both the upstream and downstream sectors of agriculture and, in the end, the farmer, because he is isolated, is the victim. we must therefore not only find tools, but also help farmers to organise themselves better, give them contracts which will guarantee them a market, an income, and which will also guarantee supplies to the industrialists, because we always talk about crises when they are to the detriment of the farmer, but we have had crises in the recent past which were to the detriment of the downstream sector, and the downstream sector will be very happy to have contracts which ensure things in the long term. the question must be asked, commissioner, why in most european countries the producer organizations are not stronger.
madam president, i too welcome the proposals made by mrs delahaye, particularly the introduction of insurance schemes. anxiety and despair are affecting the rural world and particularly the livestock farmers. the changes in the cap have eliminated the instruments of regulation based on the promise of dynamic and profitable exports. in this new context, production volumes increased, while the decline in some external markets precipitated the fall in prices. as a result, many dairy and meat producers are selling at a loss. we feel the urgency of giving ourselves intelligent protection tools to prevent and deal with crisis situations. the evangelicalism of the union cannot make commercial self-disarmament a dogma and make agriculture the adjustment variable of free trade agreements. the same applies to competition law and the prohibition of cartels. let us be pragmatic and dare to set up european mechanisms to balance supply and demand, without excessive nostalgia for quotas. i think it would be appropriate to entrust the producer associations, the pfa, with the task of regulating the volumes delivered according to the price level on the basis of commitments defined at european level. commissioner, it is time for europe to get out of its obsession with always being cheaper and finally reconcile producers and consumers.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who are still in the house, i would like to say to mr flanagan that i share his view on the consequences of globalisation, just as i share mr agnew's view on the role and place of farmers as entrepreneurs and not as employees of a central administration. a lot has been said in this house, but we are at the stage of the findings, and this report which we have co-constructed with the rapporteurs and all the groups, for those who wished to participate, goes further. i hope that's what we'll take away from this. in any case, mr hogan, i intend to look very closely at the proposals you will make to us and i thank you for taking into account the proposals which will be voted on by this parliament, as well as this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, as we speak, there is still no humanitarian corridor in aleppo and so we must all call for a european and international response to stop the massacres and for a new balance of power to prevail tomorrow to find or try to find a political solution to this terrible conflict. we see clearly that the world needs a strong europe more than ever, but we must give ourselves the means to achieve this. jean-claude juncker was right about a europe of defence. we will be forced to do so anyway, because the united states will give less and protect less tomorrow than it did yesterday. yes, it is up to us to have our own capacity to ensure our own safety. secondly, yes, we must ensure effective surveillance and control of our borders. we must take responsibility for this, not outsource it to countries like turkey. we agreed on a control system. the coastguard and border guard we have been calling for for a long time must be put in place tomorrow. thirdly, we need to have a real migration policy and face this challenge together. we must remember our solidarity with greece and italy, which are on the front line. we need to harmonise our asylum law, reform dublin, put in place legal pathways for refugees, like canada did for syrian refugees. but we must also look to the south, to africa, and conclude development and partnership agreements with this great continent.
ladies and gentlemen, our debates have been very long, so i shall be obliged to stop accepting blue cards and i shall ask you once again to respect your speaking time.
madam president, the european union offers solutions, but the information does not always reach our citizens. europe still lacks visibility and too many concerns remain unanswered. the recent elections unfortunately prove me right. the migration pressure is thus the first concern of our citizens. europe's ability to respond to them will be decisive for its future. i therefore welcome the first reintegration agreement signed with mali, which allows the root of the problem to be tackled. however, border control is still the real issue. the instability of the world is another source of anxiety and what is happening in aleppo is a tragic example right on our doorstep. the europeans must take a position which will be difficult, between vladimir putin's russia and donald trump's united states, and we will have to recreate this 'european leadership' and the community method must regain its full place. the situation in syria, the various attacks in france, belgium and germany, the fate of christians in the east must also lead us towards a strong and independent common defence policy to ensure our protection, but they also oblige us to strengthen our development policy on the african continent. the brexit negotiations are finally an opportunity to assert our authority and our firmness, to show those who elected us that their leaders keep their word. if we are to have a successful exit of the uk before the european elections in 2019, we need to have a clear message. ambiguity serves only the interests of eurosceptics and demagogues.
madam president, commissioner, it is not enough to mourn the dead in aleppo, we must arm the european union's negotiating arm. for this, he obviously lacks a defense. i welcome the fact that this european council is taking up the question of defence in a very close way. we'll have to be consistent. there will be no defense without more spending. the member states will have to take their responsibilities. we must do so all the more so as in the united states, mr trump's victory speaks of the disengagement that this state will bring to the security of europeans. we will face our responsibility. but at this european council, the commission must act so that the heads of state and government, while still waiting for article 50 from the united kingdom, do not sit idly by while they have to think about the future of the citizens of the european union. for that we need president juncker to take up his pilgrim's staff again to bring the five presidents' report to life and finally complete a sustainable economic and monetary union.
madam president, we can only be satisfied that defence will be on the agenda of the council tomorrow. however, let me temper the declaratory enthusiasm of the last few days and this morning with three very specific points that must be taken into account. first, defence was already on the agenda of the council in december 2013. it is december 2016. three years wasted, because the conclusions of december 2013 are word for word the same as those that will be adopted tomorrow and we cannot say that much progress has been made. secondly, we hear a lot about cooperation and complementarity with nato. it is obvious that nato has a key role to play, but i would remind you that from january onwards, at the nato decision-making table, there will be mr trump and mr erdoğan, and i am not sure that europe should make its defence dependent on these individuals. thirdly, the industry. i welcome the commission's commitment to finding funding opportunities for the defence industry. i would remind you, however, that it is the states and only the states that make the defence market work, because they are the only customers, and that, therefore, it would already be necessary for the european states, when european equipment exists, to buy european equipment. other powers, including those more liberal than us, buy the products of their own countries.
madam president, the situation in turkey is extremely worrying and i believe that the european parliament has made the right proposal in its resolution to suspend the accession process. the total breakdown of the negotiations would throw this strategic state towards other eastern partners, which would further complicate the situation in the middle east. as you know, this resolution has angered president erdoğan, who has threatened to break the agreement on migration, which is proof that we have touched the heart, by the way. the union must not give in to this kind of threat and must move forward on the issues of welcoming migrants without having to yield to mr erdoğan's injunctions. now it is up to the commission to speak out, but also to the council, with the support of the european parliament, and to demand that individual freedoms in turkey be protected and that the massacres of the kurdish people be stopped. i was receiving some high school students who were wondering about the situation in turkey and about the capacity of the european union to act. i have to take up this matter here in parliament.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017. poland has reformed its domestic law on restructuring and has requested that the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of that regulation will correspond to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation. the commission's proposal is purely technical and does not envisage any substantive amendment of the regulation, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to this text as the proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 2015/848 is purely technical and aims to take into account a polish reform in the field concerned. in the absence of a substantial change to the rules of procedure, i saw no reason to object.
in writing. ‒ poland has reformed its domestic law on restructuring and has asked for the regulation to be amended accordingly. the commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of that regulation will correspond to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not provide for any substantive amendment of the regulation. i abstained on that vote.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report, which concerns a purely technical amendment to the insolvency procedures governed by regulation (eu) no 2015/848. these changes follow a reform of poland's domestic restructuring law. the regulation therefore had to be amended accordingly, so that it corresponded to the reformed legal framework. if this amendment is merely formal, i am not opposed to the substance of the regulation, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ poland has reformed its domestic law on restructuring and has asked for the regulation to be amended accordingly. the proposed text aims to ensure that the scope of the regulation will correspond to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation; it's purely technical. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply in the member states from 26 june 2017. poland has reformed its restructuring legislation and has requested that the regulation be amended at the same time. this proposal to amend the regulation is intended to ensure that its scope remains in line with the polish legal framework. since this amendment to the regulation, proposed by the european commission, does not provide for any major changes, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to improve the efficiency of insolvency proceedings, i.e. the rules defining a natural or legal person as insolvent and the rules concerning persons responsible for recovery. considering that the harmonisation of insolvency procedures at union level will ensure equal treatment of european citizens and facilitate the work of insolvency practitioners throughout the union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is important that effective insolvency procedures are guaranteed in all member states. to this end, the european union has drawn up a list of the insolvency proceedings and practitioners of the member states. these lists should be kept up to date as only the procedures and actors listed therein are recognised at european level. while respecting the european principles on insolvency, poland has recently revised its legislation in this area. the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners should therefore be amended to take account of the changes in poland.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017. the commission proposed an amendment to the scope of this regulation to take account of a reform of domestic law in poland. the commission's proposal is therefore purely technical.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the commission proposal is purely technical in nature and does not provide for any substantive amendment of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal is far too technical to hope to change the regulation in depth in favour of the reform sought by poland. i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tadeusz zwiefka, on insolvency proceedings. this purely technical text amends the provisions on insolvency proceedings, which are being harmonised at european level. this system allows the assets of an insolvent debtor located in any country of the union to be coordinated. the amendments relate in particular to the participation of the united kingdom and the refusal of ireland to participate in this procedural standardisation. i support this report, which promotes banking and tax cooperation between member states. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a substantial reform of its internal insolvency law, requesting that annexes a and b, which list the insolvency procedures and practitioners covered by the regulation, be amended accordingly. the commission has assessed this request and has therefore put forward this proposal for a regulation, which is purely technical in nature and which i have supported.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the insolvency proceedings and the insolvency practitioners. regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017. poland has reformed its domestic law on restructuring and has requested that the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of that regulation will correspond to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not provide for any substantive amendment of the regulation.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not provide for any substantive amendment of the regulation. it merely ensures that the scope of the regulation corresponds to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. in december 2015, poland notified the commission of a substantial reform of its domestic restructuring law with effect from 1 january 2016 and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. these annexes list the insolvency procedures and the bodies managing the insolvency. the proposal submitted to us aims to ensure that the scope of the revised regulation will correspond to the actual legal framework of polish insolvency law. this proposal is purely technical in nature, concerns poland only and does not involve any substantial amendment of the regulation. another useless vote. i vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to adapt, following an amendment to polish legislation, regulation (eu) no 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings, which entered into force in june 2015 and will apply in june 2017. this amendment does not change the substance of the regulation, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017. poland has reformed its domestic law on restructuring and has requested that the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of that regulation corresponds to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not provide for any substantive amendment of the regulation. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017. poland has reformed its domestic law on restructuring and has requested that the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of that regulation will correspond to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not provide for any substantive amendment of the regulation. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council replacing the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. the text, which is purely technical, takes account of the recently adopted reform of insolvency in poland and amends european law accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the insolvency procedure regulation has been re-written and will enter into force in 2017. at the same time, poland has amended certain provisions in its legislation on this matter. it subsequently asked the commission to amend the regulation on insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. i voted in favour of this report, which therefore concerns the commission's proposal for a regulation in this respect.
in writing. ‒ poland has reformed its domestic law on restructuring and has asked for the regulation to be amended accordingly. the commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council with a view to ensuring that the scope of that regulation will correspond to the reformed legal framework of polish legislation. the commission proposal is purely technical and does not provide for any substantive amendment of the regulation. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending that agreement in order to extend its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral agreement on textiles. the eu had previously postponed the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan because of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. the world trade organization (wto) has been able to monitor the cotton harvest: child labour has become rare and occasional and socially acceptable. ngos say that forced labour continues despite this. in principle, the national front votes against free trade agreements, including textiles, but since this agreement will have very little impact on france and allows this poor and landlocked country to find some outlets for its cotton, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation to extend the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan to include trade in textiles. the report of the last mission of the international labour organization, which took place from 14 september to 31 october 2015, indicates that public authorities have implemented various measures to eliminate child labour. in view of this condition, i therefore considered that the agreement could be extended.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because, while i usually vote against all the free trade agreements that the union is multiplying all the way round, this one concerns only textiles, with a minimal impact on france, and will allow this landlocked country to find outlets for its cotton. the eu is also committed to the development of the region's tourism industry, which is a key factor in the development of the region's tourism industry.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement. the eu had previously postponed approval of the textile agreement, in particular because of the problems of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. despite the progress made on the ground by the international labour organization, ngos on the ground say that forced labour continues. i am also generally opposed to free trade agreements between the european union and third countries, firstly because the eu should not have this competence and secondly because these agreements are often harmful to employment in france. however, in this particular case, the textile agreements with uzbekistan will have little impact on french industry and will also allow this developing country to find some outlets for its cotton reserves. realism and prudence therefore called for abstention.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the draft council decision on the conclusion of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan to extend the provisions to bilateral trade in textiles. the european union had recently postponed approval of the agreement because of multiple cases of forced labour and child labour on certain farms. since then, the international labour organisation (ilo) and ngos have been able to confirm a clear decline in these unacceptable practices. we are still opposed in principle to any free trade agreement, especially in the textile sector, in order to protect french firms from unfair international competition. but this agreement will have only a small impact on the french economy and does not pose a threat to our companies. that is why i abstained on this report, which will help to increase the opportunities for uzbek farms in a country which is sufficiently marginalised from trade relations.
in writing. ‒ this consultation report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the commission's proposal to include trade provisions for textile products in the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and uzbekistan. the uzbek authorities have adopted a series of measures to eliminate child labour, such as the establishment of after-school childcare facilities, fines for offenders, and accountability for parents, teachers and farmers. in view of these positive developments and in favour of the union's rapprochement with uzbekistan in the context of in-depth cooperation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan to include bilateral trade in textiles. in 2011, in view of the human rights situation and the exploitation of children during the cotton harvest, the european union refused to include bilateral textile trade in this agreement with uzbekistan. faced with this european pressure, uzbekistan worked with the international labour organization and eradicated child labour in this sector. given these efforts and the improvement in the situation of children, we can now open our market to the uzbek textile industry.
in writing. ‒ for the past three years, the uzbek authorities have been working in cooperation with the international labour organisation (ilo) to end forced and child labour in the country. significant progress has been made. the most significant is child labour, which, according to the latest ilo reports, has now been virtually eradicated. it is in the light of this progress and the uzbek authorities' awareness of the importance of respecting international labour standards and human rights and the implementation of a strategy to this end that the european parliament has given its backing to the inclusion of textiles in the areas of trade cooperation covered by the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of uzbekistan. it remains essential to monitor developments with the utmost vigilance. it should be noted that cases of forced labour are still observed in uzbekistan. we therefore expect the authorities to continue to step up their efforts to put an end to it. thus, any deterioration in the situation of human rights and labour law will necessarily lead to an immediate suspension of the preferences granted under these agreements.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the draft council decision concerns the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan in the textiles sector. the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan was delayed due to concerns about the persistence of child and forced labour in the cotton fields. in fact, the debate on this issue has not been settled: according to the international labour organisation, child labour has become occasional and socially acceptable, but some ngos point to its persistence. we are opposed to free trade agreements in principle. however, it will have little impact on the member states of the union. the landlocked state would find few outlets for its cotton.
in writing. ‒ abstention: we vote against free trade agreements, including textiles, but this agreement will have very little impact on france and will allow this poor and landlocked country to find outlets for its cotton.
in writing. ‒ i am usually opposed to free trade agreements, but it is clear that this partnership will have little impact on the french economy and will allow uzbekistan to find outlets for its cotton industry. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs maria arena, on the partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan. the textile industry is an important part of the uzbek economy and a trade partner for european companies. to this end, the european union has worked closely with the government and the world labour organisation to end child and forced labour. the report welcomes the efforts made by the country over the past five years to remedy the situation and calls for further measures. this agreement is not a blanket waiver for uzbekistan, since in the event of a serious violation of human rights, the union reserves the right to suspend the agreement altogether. the eu will become more competitive and grow by maintaining healthy trade relations with our neighbours, which is why i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ the current restrictions on uzbek cotton are justified by the practice of forced labour for the cotton harvest. during the harvest season, local people and even children are requisitioned, as well as people hired by the local authorities to harvest cotton and thus reach production quotas. the current authorities are trying to change this assessment, but not necessarily the practices. it is true that an ilo evaluation mission was authorised, as were some local ngos. the latter conclude that there has been an improvement, particularly in the government's speech announcing measures against these practices. but in reality, we are still very far away: the monitoring missions were remote-guided by the uzbek authorities and there are still serious doubts about the independence of the local ngos. other ngos have also provided us with conflicting information on forced labour. in the end, there is still a long way to go and better access to the european market will strengthen a very large-scale industrial cotton crop in uzbekistan, which is already responsible for the drying up of the aral sea. that is why i opposed this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the ec/uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles. the european union had previously postponed the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan because of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. the world has been able to monitor the cotton harvest: child labour has become rare and occasional. ngos say that forced labour continues despite this. i normally vote against free trade agreements, including textiles, but this agreement will have very little impact on france and will allow this poor landlocked country to find some outlets for its cotton.
in writing. ‒ the european union had previously postponed the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan because of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. according to the latest findings of the international labour organization, child labour has become rare, very occasional and socially acceptable. as for forced labour, ngos report that it is unfortunately still present. i am also opposed to free trade agreements, especially in the present economic climate. nevertheless, this agreement will have very little impact on france and will allow this poor and landlocked country to find some outlets for its cotton. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan in the field of textiles raises several problems. first, this country is known for its use of forced labour in cotton fields. in addition, children are often forced to work in this sector. these are the reasons why the eu had previously postponed the approval of this agreement. nevertheless, the international labour organisation has carried out inspections in the textile sector and has been able to monitor the cotton harvest in uzbekistan. the results of the controls show that child labour has become rare and occasional. however, many ngos observe that forced labour continues. taking into account the efforts made by the state to improve working conditions, but retaining reservations following the reports of the ngos, we abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the commission proposed to extend the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement to textile trade. the inclusion of the textile protocol in this partnership agreement - which is largely symbolic in view of the volumes involved - does not represent a major economic issue for the european union. at the time, however, the european parliament had (rightly) decided to reserve its consent to a clear improvement in the human rights and labour law situation in uzbekistan. at that time, child labour in the cotton fields was common, as was forced labour. the uzbek government has since partnered with the international labour organisation (ilo), allowing it to send several observation missions to the field. five years later, according to the ilo, the situation has improved: child labour has almost disappeared, and forced labour has declined markedly. that is why my colleague, marie arena, supported by my political group, has proposed that the conclusion of the textile protocol should finally be given the go-ahead, while reserving the right to ask for its suspension if the situation of fundamental rights were to deteriorate. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to accept the council agreement on the extension of the facilities for importing uzbekistan's textile products into the european union. not only is it one of the world's leading cotton producers, but it is also one of the last countries in the world to still practice slavery! so yes, there is significant progress in the eradication of child labour but in addition, there is also still, with each harvest, forced labour for adults in the fields. if this parliament really wanted to 'promote human rights in the world', it would start by refusing this kind of agreement. i vote against chain-harvested cotton!
in writing. ‒ this free trade agreement between the european communities and their member states, on the one hand, and uzbekistan, on the other, concerns the textile industry. the european union initially postponed its acceptance because of the evidence of forced labour and child labour in the cotton fields. the eu therefore submits this agreement, as the wto has concluded that child labour has become less common and socially acceptable. however, ngos report that forced labour continues despite this. in view of these factors, i abstained on this free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the eu had previously postponed the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan because of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. the world trade organization (wto) has been able to monitor the cotton harvest: child labour has become rare and occasional and socially acceptable. ngos say that forced labour continues despite this. we are voting against free trade agreements, including textiles, but this agreement will have very little impact on france and will allow this poor landlocked country to find some outlets for its cotton. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ the eu had previously postponed the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan because of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. the un has been able to monitor the cotton harvest: child labour has become rare and occasional and socially acceptable. ngos say that forced labour continues despite this. i am opposed to free trade agreements, including textiles, but this agreement will have very little impact on france and will allow this poor and landlocked country to find some outlets for its cotton. i therefore abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text approving the agreement on textile trade with uzbekistan. this agreement follows the progress made and commitments made by uzbekistan in the fight against forced and child labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to extend the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan to bilateral trade in textiles. according to the international labour organisation, child labour has now virtually disappeared in uzbekistan, so i encourage the conclusion of this agreement and the total eradication of all forms of forced labour in cotton harvesting. i would remind you that if the country does not continue its efforts in this area, we will ask for the agreement to be suspended.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the european parliament's approval to establish the textile protocol between the eu and uzbekistan. since 2011 and the refusal of the european parliament to approve this protocol, uzbekistan has provided significant work and actions to eradicate child labour and forced labour. in view of the efforts made and the publication of the latest ilo monitoring report, parliament gave its approval to the protocol. nevertheless, action to eradicate forced and child labour must continue and, should the situation deteriorate, parliament reserves the right to request the suspension of this protocol at any time. the european union's trade policy is based on values which must be respected.
in writing. ‒ this report contains a non-legislative proposal and is complementary to the draft recommendation on the eu-uzbekistan textile protocol, on which i propose to abstain. the european union had previously postponed the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan because of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. the world has been able to monitor the cotton harvest: child labour has become rare and occasional. ngos say forced labour is continuing but the european parliament welcomes uzbekistan's efforts. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids in the country, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids in the country. it also recommended that the textile protocol be voted on. since some of the elements of the report constitute an interference in the politics of a sovereign state, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation to extend the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan to include trade in textiles. the report of the last mission of the international labour organization, which took place from 14 september to 31 october 2015, notes that the public authorities have implemented various measures to eliminate child labour. in view of this condition, i therefore considered that the agreement could be extended.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for uzbekistan to comply with the standards of the international labour organisation. while this intention is commendable, the report is extremely intrusive as it includes this part: supports the idea of extending the country-specific programme for the promotion of decent work beyond 2016 and deepening it to include the modernization of the uzbek economy, employment policy, occupational health and safety and labour inspection, while taking into account gender equality. other being resolutely against interference, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i wished to abstain on this report on the ec-uzbekistan cooperation partnership agreement on bilateral trade in textiles. in addition to the previous draft recommendation on this subject, i reiterate my doubts about the progress made by uzbekistan on forced labour, in particular child labour. i also deny the european commission the power to impose a traceability mechanism in the clothing sector. as usual, the eu uses the levers of interference to blackmail and threaten countries about their political, economic and social models. i therefore suggest that we should be careful not to punish uzbekistan, but also not to encourage the european union to dictate its own laws in terms of international agreements.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the draft council decision on the conclusion of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan to extend the provisions to bilateral trade in textiles. the european union had recently postponed approval of the agreement because of multiple cases of forced labour and child labour on certain farms. since then, the international labour organisation (ilo) and ngos have been able to confirm a clear decline in these unacceptable practices. we are still opposed in principle to any free trade agreement, especially in the textile sector, in order to protect french firms from unfair international competition. but this agreement will have only a small impact on the french economy and does not pose a threat to our companies. that is why i abstained on this report, which will help to increase the opportunities for uzbek farms in a country which is sufficiently marginalised from trade relations.
in writing. ‒ this consultation report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the commission's proposal to include trade provisions for textile products in the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and uzbekistan. the uzbek authorities have adopted a series of measures to eliminate child labour, such as the establishment of after-school childcare facilities, fines for offenders, or the accountability of parents, teachers and farmers. considering these positive developments and being in favour of a rapprochement of the union with uzbekistan in the framework of in-depth cooperation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text setting out recommendations on the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles. while the efforts of the uzbek authorities to eradicate child labour justify the introduction of textile trade in eu-uzbekistan relations, european encouragement must, however, be matched by a close monitoring of respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ for the past three years, the uzbek authorities have been working in cooperation with the international labour organisation (ilo) to end forced and child labour in the country. significant progress has been made. the most significant is child labour, which according to the latest ilo reports has now been virtually eradicated. it is in the light of this progress and the uzbek authorities' awareness of the importance of respecting international labour standards and human rights and the implementation of a strategy to this end that the european parliament has given its backing to the inclusion of textiles in the areas of trade cooperation covered by the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of uzbekistan. it remains essential to monitor developments with the utmost vigilance. it should be noted that cases of forced labour are still observed in uzbekistan. we therefore expect the authorities to continue to step up their efforts to put an end to it. thus, any deterioration in the situation of human rights and labour law will necessarily lead to an immediate suspension of the preferences granted under these agreements.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the resolution was adopted by a large majority with a view to adopting a non-legislative resolution on the eu-uzbekistan textile protocol. the aim is to call for traceability efforts in the clothing sector. the text also calls on uzbekistan to: - put an end to forced labour and child labour; - respect fundamental rights and democratic principles; - give ngos more freedom of action. these requirements, which are indeed fundamental rights, are interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. the text, however, calls for the ratification of the agreement on trade in textiles.
in writing. ‒ abstention: we vote against free trade agreements, including textiles, but this agreement will have very little impact on france and allows this poor and landlocked country to find outlets for its cotton.
in writing. ‒ welcoming uzbekistan's continued efforts to improve the situation of forced child labour, the european union is once again interfering in the internal politics of a third country by promoting economic modernisation, gender equality and labour inspection in line with imported ilo standards. the defence of rights and freedoms is certainly commendable but must not be accompanied by too deep intrusion into the affairs of a country. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the current restrictions on uzbek cotton are justified by the practice of forced labour for the cotton harvest. during the harvest season, local people and even children are requisitioned, as well as people hired by the local authorities to harvest cotton and thus reach production quotas. the current authorities are trying to change this assessment, but not necessarily the practices. it is true that an ilo evaluation mission was authorised, as were some local ngos. the latter conclude that there has been an improvement, particularly in the government's speech announcing measures against these practices. but in reality, we are still very far away: the monitoring missions were remote-guided by the uzbek authorities and there are still serious doubts about the independence of the local ngos. other ngos have also provided us with conflicting information on forced labour. in the end, there is still a long way to go and better access to the european market will strengthen a very large-scale industrial cotton crop in uzbekistan, which is already responsible for the drying up of the aral sea. that is why i opposed this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles. this report rightly calls for uzbekistan to respect ilo standards, to put an end to forced and child labour and to respect democratic rights. at the same time, the report is very intrusive: supports the idea of extending the country-specific programme for the promotion of decent work beyond 2016 and deepening it to include the modernization of the uzbek economy, employment policy, occupational health and safety and labour inspection, while taking into account gender equality . the european union is therefore trying to interfere heavily in uzbekistan's internal politics.
in writing. ‒ the european union had previously postponed the approval of the textile agreement with uzbekistan because of child labour and forced labour in cotton fields. according to the latest findings of the international labour organization, child labour has become rare, very occasional and socially acceptable. as for forced labour, ngos report that it is unfortunately still present. moreover, this motion for a resolution is an abnormal interference in the internal affairs of uzbekistan. in the interests of balance and taking all these factors into account, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this report contains a non-legislative motion for a resolution on the eu-uzbekistan textile protocol, on which i abstained. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on uzbekistan to continue its efforts to combat child and forced labour. it also called on the european commission to create a traceability mechanism in the clothing sector. these are the positive aspects of this resolution. however, it remains very intrusive in the internal politics of uzbekistan and that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the commission proposed to extend the eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement to textile trade. the inclusion of the textile protocol in this partnership agreement - which is largely symbolic in view of the volumes involved - does not represent a major economic issue for the european union. at the time, however, the european parliament had (rightly) decided to make its consent conditional on a clear improvement in the human rights and labour law situation in uzbekistan. at that time, child labour in the cotton fields was common, as was forced labour. the uzbek government has since partnered with the international labour organisation (ilo), allowing it to send several observation missions to the field. five years later, according to the ilo, the situation has improved: child labour has almost disappeared and forced labour has declined markedly. that is why my colleague, marie arena, supported by my political group, has proposed that the conclusion of the textile protocol should finally be given the go-ahead, while reserving the right to ask for its suspension if the situation of fundamental rights were to deteriorate. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this resolution accompanies the vote of approval on the textile agreement with uzbekistan. the socialist rapporteur did not want to hear anything. we asked to wait at least for the new report of the international labour organization for the year 2016 reporting on the developments of forced labour in the cotton fields. it was a matter of weeks. the commission has not yet responded to the sirens of the commission, which sees in the death of the former uzbek leader a means of strengthening its grip on central asia. i reject the argument that these free trade agreements have 'human rights clauses' which will allow them to be suspended if serious human rights violations are committed. if from the outset, possible conditions of slavery are not considered as "serious", how, once the agreement is adopted, can we get it suspended? especially since these clauses were never invoked in practice, even under the ben ali regime in tunisia. this means that cheap cotton is being promoted in competition with products which respect human rights. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report, in conjunction with the previous one, contains recommendations for uzbekistan to comply with ilo standards but is very intrusive in the affairs of this sovereign state. i therefore abstained, considering that the european union has no business interfering in uzbekistan's internal affairs.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for uzbekistan to respect ilo standards, end forced and child labour, and respect democratic rights. it also recommended that the textile protocol be voted on. at the same time, the report is very intrusive and gives the impression that the european union is heavily involved in uzbekistan's internal politics. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for uzbekistan to respect ilo standards, end forced child labour, respect for democratic rights and ngos. it also recommended that the textile protocol be voted on. at the same time, this report is very intrusive in uzbekistan's internal politics. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which accompanies the approval of the agreement on trade in textiles with uzbekistan. the text underlines that uzbekistan has started to cooperate with the international labour organization (ilo) and has practically eradicated child labour in the last three years. it called on the uzbek authorities to accelerate the deployment of national awareness-raising campaigns to eradicate the practice altogether.
in writing. ‒ i support the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan to bilateral textile trade and therefore vote in favour of this resolution. according to the international labour organisation, child labour has now virtually disappeared in uzbekistan, so i encourage the conclusion of this agreement and the total eradication of all forms of forced labour in cotton harvesting. i would remind you that if the country does not continue its efforts in this area, we will ask for the suspension of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which accompanies the european parliament's approval to establish the eu-uzbekistan textile protocol. since 2011 and the rejection of this protocol by the european parliament, uzbekistan has provided significant work and actions to eradicate child labour and forced labour. in view of the efforts made and the publication of the latest ilo monitoring report, parliament gave its approval to the protocol. the text nevertheless calls for action to be taken to eradicate forced and child labour and stresses that if the situation deteriorates, parliament reserves the right to request the suspension of the protocol at any time. the resolution also calls on the european commission to present the 'eu garment initiative' as soon as possible and encourages it to continue its initiatives and actions to improve working conditions and health and safety in the clothing sector.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the approval of ecuador's accession to the 2012 trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. however, as ecuador has become a middle-income country, it can no longer be part of the gsp+ agreement (status of countries with a special incentive scheme). high customs duties are abolished, services markets are liberalised, public procurement is opened up, with environmental and social standards imposed... ecuadorian fisheries will no longer be subject to customs duties. ecuador, according to the european union, will benefit from considerable new access to the european union's banana markets. in 17 years, 90% of customs duties on agricultural products will be abolished. this will be very unfavourable to the producers in the overseas regions for whom bananas are an important source of income. for all these reasons, i opposed the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru and its progressive and flexible implementation, with a commission's pre-emptive approach, taking into account the periodic assessments after consultation with the ecuadorian government and civil society on both sides, should be an important step forward in the alliance with important, growing and equally sensitive countries in a region increasingly oriented towards asia and the pacific.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for accepting the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement of 2012. high customs duties would be abolished, service markets liberalized, public procurement opened up. ecuador, according to the eu, will benefit from considerable new access to the eu markets for bananas. 90% of customs duties in the agricultural sector would be abolished in 17 years. this would be very unfavourable to the producers in our overseas regions for whom this fruit represents an important source of income. i therefore opposed this accession.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on ecuador's accession to the free trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. it is true that, as ecuador has become a so-called "middle income" country, it can no longer benefit from the european union's generalised system of preferences, which provides facilities for developing countries. i take this opportunity to say that the very existence of this system discredits ultra-liberal ideology since it recognises the need for customs duties, protected pigs, social and environmental standards, in short, intelligent protectionism, in order to promote economic development. i therefore believe that integrating ecuador into this trade agreement will not only be negative for that country but also for our producers, since it will lead to ecuador being able to benefit from considerable new access to the european union markets for bananas. it would be a disaster for our producers in the overseas regions, for whom bananas are an important source of income.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will be very unfavourable to producers in the overseas regions for whom bananas are an important source of income. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends approving the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded in 2012 between the european union, colombia and peru. the agreement includes a drastic reduction in customs duties and the liberalisation of the services market in return for stricter environmental and social standards. the ecuadorian fisheries will be exempt from customs duties. the agreement provides for the elimination of 90% of customs duties on agricultural products over a period of 17 years. we have of course opposed this trade agreement which will threaten the viability of our farms, particularly in overseas regions where banana exports are an important source of income. the increase in the number of tariff concessions granted by the european union is therefore likely to be a blow to our agricultural sector, which is already facing falling commodity prices and the russian embargo. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the positive opinion of the european parliament on the approval of the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement. until the end of the year, ecuador continued to enjoy privileged access for its goods to the eu market, which enabled the country to benefit in advance from all the advantages of accession to the trade agreement. the conclusion of the process at union level, with the provisional entry into force of the protocol, will bring about a more stable economic relationship. the french delegation of the epp has worked extensively to establish a mechanism for the internal protection of the banana market, which would allow better protection for european producers, and french producers in particular. i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. i voted in favour of ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. the integration of ecuador into the agreement will remove customs barriers and bring positive trade benefits to all parties. the facilitation of market access for both european and ecuadorian exporters on the basis of a pre-existing agreement with ecuador's neighbouring countries is a reasoned approach that takes into account the interests of each party and leads to profits for all. this trade agreement with an additional member of the andean community must also serve as a basis for ever closer relations between the andean community and the european union. however, in order to protect european producers from ecuador - the world's leading banana producer - we have ensured that a stabilisation mechanism for bananas will accompany this agreement when a certain annual import volume is reached.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the ratification by the european parliament of the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. consensus was reached in this international agreement to ensure operational protection of european banana production. this was a key condition for us to accept the agreement, since the opening of the markets should not have a negative impact on our farms. the negotiated mechanism brings more transparency, better monitoring and the promise of appropriate measures that will support the future of european production in the event of market disruption leading to a crisis in the sector. these amendments were eventually necessary before considering ratification of this agreement with ecuador.
in writing. ‒ three years after the ratification of the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru, ecuador joins the list of signatories. the ecuadorian economy, which has been hit by the fall in exports and the strong earthquake this summer, will be able to take full advantage of the preferences offered by the agreement to start its recovery. the eu has much to gain from closer economic links with the countries of central america and the andean countries. the provisions of this agreement must not, however, threaten the fragile sectors of the european economy. the banana sector is particularly sensitive in this respect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the community's fisheries. that is why, before giving our consent to the inclusion of ecuador in this partnership, we felt it necessary to strengthen the mechanisms for protecting european production. the agreement reached on the eve of ratification between the commission, parliament and the council on safeguard clauses will make it possible, on the one hand, to better forecast the development of imports into the union and, on the other hand, to react more effectively to an increase in banana arrivals from these countries, which would destabilise the european market.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this is the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, dating from 2012. the text includes the abolition of 90% of customs duties in the agricultural sector within 17 years, the liberalisation of the services market and the imposition of environmental and labour standards. this text will in particular promote ecuadorian fisheries and banana production, which will be extremely detrimental to french overseas producers.
in writing. ‒ cons: unfavourable for producers in the overseas regions for whom bananas are an important source of income.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this project of accession by one of the world's leading banana exporters, which will harm the producers of our overseas regions for whom its trade represents an important source of income. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague helmut scholz on the trade agreement integrating ecuador into the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement. the agreement sets the right conditions to benefit all signatories. it provides for the removal of several tariff barriers, opening up new markets for european companies, in particular through the rationalisation of intellectual property, plant health and competition rules. i am also pleased that agreement was reached in advance on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas, so as not to jeopardise production in the french west indies, which is the source of many jobs. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement concerning the accession of ecuador. the report calls for ecuador to accede to the eu's 2012 trade agreement with colombia and peru. customs duties will be abolished, service markets liberalized, pgi protected, public procurement opened up, with environmental and labour standards imposed. ecuadorian fisheries will no longer be subject to customs duties. ecuador, according to the eu, will gain significant new access to eu markets for bananas. 90% of the agricultural sector's customs duties will be eliminated in 17 years. this will be very unfavourable to the producers in the overseas regions, for whom bananas are an important source of income.
in writing. ‒ this report defends ecuador's accession to the eu trade agreement with colombia and peru, dated 2012. this agreement is likely to have a serious impact on banana production, which is vital in our overseas regions. this accession will give ecuador considerable new access to the eu markets for this fruit. i want to protect our fruit production from competition from foreign countries and that is why i voted against this accession.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report seeks to give the european parliament's consent to ecuador's accession to the 2012 trade agreement between the european union and two latin american countries, colombia and peru. this accession will give ecuador considerable new access to the european union's banana markets. we therefore consider it to be unfavourable to the producers in the overseas regions for whom bananas are an important source of income.
in writing. ‒ unlike the various eu-africa partnership agreements, which i have consistently opposed, the protocol of accession of ecuador to the colombia-peru agreement is a pro-development agreement. it is decidedly asymmetrical - after 17 years, the ecuadorian market will be 60% open, compared with 95% for the european market - and takes into account the needs of ecuador. it should help to support the social efforts of the correa government, and translate into a gdp increase of 0.5% on the ecuadorian side. at the same time, the agreement will allow european industries and producers to gain a foothold in the ecuadorian market: access to public procurement is extended, customs duties in the automotive sector are significantly reduced, and some 100 european protected designations of origin are recognised. however, by dismantling the high tariff (the entry price for ecuadorian bananas on the european market will be set at eur 75/tonne), the agreement could put the caribbean banana sector at risk, whose good health is decisive for the prosperity of these territories. while it is true that the stabilisation mechanism specifically for bananas will be strengthened in the near future, there are doubts about its applicability. so i refrained.
‒ i have been explaining the dangers of these free trade agreements with latin america for several years. already in the agreement with colombia and peru, the first step to break the andean alliance. i opposed the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador, which i believe were achieved with the help of pressure and blackmail from brussels and its lobbying on the government of rafael correa. this agreement echoes all the liberal mantras: liberalising services markets dismantling several important non-tariff barriers (social and environmental standards), will fully exempt european exporters of industrial and fishery products destined for ecuador from customs duties . the interest in european multinationals, the mining sector and agribusiness is evident. on the other hand, small farmers in ecuador are directly threatened. but also our small banana producers in the face of the giant chiquita which practices environmental dumping and land grabbing. in short, it is years of promoting cooperation and the entire ecuadorian social model of buen vivir that are being called into question. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement aims to accept the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement, dating from 2012, linking the eu, colombia and peru. it provides for the abolition of customs duties, the liberalisation of services markets and the opening up of public procurement. in addition, ecuadorian fisheries will no longer be subject to customs duties and ecuador will be able to benefit from significant access to the european union markets for bananas, which will have a very strong impact on french overseas regions. so i opposed the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for ecuador to accede to the eu's 2012 trade agreement with colombia and peru. high customs duties are abolished, service markets are liberalised, pgi are protected, public procurement is open, with environmental and labour standards imposed. ecuadorian fisheries will no longer be subject to customs duties. ecuador, according to the eu, will gain significant new access to eu markets for bananas. 90% of customs duties in the agricultural sector have been abolished in 17 years. this will be very unfavourable to the producers in the overseas regions for whom bananas are an important source of income. vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for ecuador to accede to the eu's 2012 trade agreement with colombia and peru. ecuador has become a middle-income country and therefore can no longer be part of the gsp+ agreement. high customs duties are abolished, service markets are liberalised, pgi are protected, public procurement is open, with environmental and labour standards imposed. ecuadorian fisheries will no longer be subject to customs duties. ecuador, according to the eu, will benefit from considerable new access to eu markets for bananas. 90% of customs duties in the agricultural sector will be abolished in 17 years. this will be very unfavourable to the producers in the overseas regions for whom bananas are an important source of income. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which approves the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. this will save eu exporters over €100 million in customs duties each year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of including ecuador in the agreement already in place with colombia and peru. but that vote almost didn't happen. with my colleagues tokia saïfi and maurice ponga, we fought until the last moment to get an agreement on safeguard mechanisms for the banana sector. ecuador is the world's leading producer of bananas and will be given preferential access to the european market. in this respect, our caribbean producers in particular need protection. some wanted the agreement at all costs, without waiting for us to protect what should be. it's not in my principles. as with any agreement, when i am sure that everything that needs to be protected is, i ratify it. there are no exceptions. but to get there, we had to mobilise the epp, the only group that has fought so hard to protect this sector! the voice of france has been heard and i now call for vigilance in the banana sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which represents the ratification by the european parliament of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, to take account of the accession of ecuador. the agreement will remove customs duties on many products and once the agreement is fully implemented, it is estimated that eu exporters will save at least €106 million a year in customs duties. it should also be noted that some 100 eu geographical indications will be protected on the ecuadorian market. nevertheless, we were concerned about the impact of this agreement on our european banana producers, given that ecuador is the world's leading producer of bananas. we have thus ensured, through the trialogue held the day before the ratification of the agreement, that it will be accompanied by a safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism for bananas. these arrangements will enable us to obtain better information and support our producers in the event of market disturbances.
in writing. ‒ unlike many trade agreements, this protocol of accession for ecuador takes into account the country's specific development needs. it is estimated that the ecuadorian market will be 60% open at 17 years, compared with 95% for the european market. this is an important step forward in the european union's design of its trade policy: to ensure fair trade that does not destroy the partner's economy. but this progress must not come at the expense of fragile european production. by further dismantling the tariff regime for banana trade, the agreement risks destabilising the economy of the eu's outermost regions (such as the french dom). i am particularly keen to defend the economy of these territories, which are subject to unique social, environmental and regional factors. we must be vigilant about the impact of trade agreements on these territories. however, the safeguard clause to protect banana production from falling prices, provided for in this type of agreement, is not automatic and far too long to implement. i therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ ecuador will no longer benefit from the gsp+ system as from 31 december 2016. in order not to lose the benefit of this tariff preference, ecuador had to resume negotiations on the free trade agreement which the eu had already adopted with other countries of the andean community of nations, putting them in competition while claiming the opposite. ecuador had good reason to leave the negotiating table in 2010. the country's ambition was to move from an economy based on exporting raw materials to a high value-added economy based on innovation and renewable energy. the country also had to maintain considerable fiscal flexibility, as it had no currency of its own. blackmail and pressure, coupled with a significant drop in oil prices, have overcome ecuador's resistance. i am opposed to free trade agreements on principle, and i have serious doubts about the long-term benefits that ecuadorians will derive from them. for these reasons i have chosen to abstain as i have had the opportunity to do in similar situations.
in writing. ‒ on 19 december 1966, denmark, norway and sweden signed an agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat up to four nautical miles from their respective baselines. this agreement coexisted with the 1980 eu-norway fisheries agreement. following developments in fisheries law (the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement), norway denounced the agreement on 29 july 2009. norway and the eu signed a new agreement in 2015 on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat. the new agreement is adapted to changes in international law and ensures that the two member states concerned and norway maintain reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, while ensuring the implementation of conservation and fisheries management measures in that area. it also allows for the adoption of control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to give my approval to this new agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. signed on 15 january 2015, it is in line with the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the related provisions of other agreements concluded subsequently. following the expiry of the previous agreement in 2012, it was necessary to introduce a new text to allow a reciprocal agreement on fishing activities for norway, sweden and denmark.
in writing. ‒ following the termination of the previous agreement, norway and the european union signed a new agreement on 15 january 2015 on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat. the new agreement is adapted to changes in international law and ensures that the two member states concerned - denmark and sweden - and norway retain reciprocal access to each other's waters in the skagerrak area, while ensuring the implementation of fisheries conservation and management measures in that area. it also allows for the adoption of control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. since the agreement is only to be approved on behalf of the union, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it endorses the agreement that the eu member states and norway will have reciprocal access to each other's waters in the skagerrak area. the agreement also provides for conservation and management measures to promote sustainable fishing in this area. this agreement is also in line with the agreement of 19 december 1966 between denmark, sweden and norway. this new agreement is only a step towards compliance, following the accession of denmark and sweden to the eu, but above all with the new standards of international law in this field, in particular with regard to maritime rights and fish stocks. finally, the new agreement will make it possible to adopt control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state.
in writing. ‒ in december 1966, denmark, norway and sweden signed an agreement allowing reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat up to four nautical miles from their baselines. this was necessary in view of the convergence of national laws and for practical reasons. following the accession of denmark and sweden to the european union in 1973 and 1995, the commission took over the management of the agreement on behalf of the two member states. the new agreement in question is designed to take account of changes in international law and to guarantee reciprocal access for the two member states concerned and norway to the respective waters of the other parties. the new agreement will also help to protect fishery resources in the area. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the union and norway on reciprocal access for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden to fishing activities in the skagerrak. in view of developments in international fisheries law, the 1966 agreement between denmark, norway and sweden, supplemented in 1980 by an eu-norway agreement, has been brought into line with the united nations conventions on the law of the sea. a new agreement was therefore signed on 15 january 2015. the new agreement maintains the exclusive access enjoyed by the vessels of denmark, norway and sweden to their respective waters beyond four nautical miles from the baselines. it ensures that the two member states concerned and norway maintain reciprocal access to the other parties' respective waters in the skagerrak and kattegat area, while ensuring the implementation of fisheries conservation and management measures in that area.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report concerns reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak, a strait between southern norway, south-eastern sweden and north-western denmark. norway, a non-eu country, has entered into formal negotiations with the european commission to secure reciprocal access to this highly prized fishing area, which is also exploited by eu members sweden and denmark. the agreement includes provisions for the sustainable management of fisheries in this area and control measures in line with the principles of coastal state jurisdiction. considering that this agreement ensures the rational exploitation and sustainable management of fish stocks in this international fishing area and that it will provide new opportunities for european fishermen, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. denmark, sweden and norway share a maritime area in which they can develop their fishing activities. on the occasion of the renewal of the discussions on the sharing of these areas (the skagerrak and the kattegat), norway and the european union decided to modernise their cooperation with this new agreement applying only to the skagerrak. it maintains the provisions on sharing access to these areas contained in previous agreements, but also allows for more modern and effective control measures.
in writing. - i voted for this text. on 19 december 1966, denmark, norway and sweden signed an agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat up to 4 nautical miles from their respective baselines. the agreement, which was extended from 2002, was terminated by norway on 29 july 2009 because it had become inadequate, particularly in the light of the adoption of the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement. a new europe agreement was therefore signed on 15 january 2015. the new agreement is balanced and guarantees reciprocal access for the two member states concerned and norway to the respective waters of the other parties. it also allows coastal control measures to be adopted. we are therefore in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: the agreement is adapted to changes in international law and ensures that the two member states concerned and norway retain reciprocal access to the other parties' respective waters in the skagerrak area, while ensuring the implementation of conservation and fisheries management measures in this area.
in writing. ‒ this new agreement is more appropriate in terms of international law and more practical, guaranteeing reciprocal access for the three states to the skagerrak and kattegat sea areas and ensuring the smooth running of conservation measures and management of fisheries activities. finally, the agreement respects the jurisdiction of each coastal state and its control measures. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jorn dohrmann, on the agreement on fishing activities in the skagerrak. this agreement guarantees access for member states for fishing activities in the area. it replaces the agreement signed by norway and the european union in 1980. the skagerrak is a very important maritime area that connects the north sea and the baltic sea. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. on 19 december 1966, denmark, norway and sweden signed an agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat up to four nautical miles from their respective baselines. following developments in fisheries law, in particular after the adoption of the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea and the 1995 united nations fish stocks agreement, norway denounced the latter on 29 july 2009. it therefore expired on 7 august 2012. the new agreement is adapted to changes in international law and ensures that the two member states concerned and norway maintain reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, while ensuring the implementation of conservation and fisheries management measures in that area. it also allows for the adoption of control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state.
in writing. - i voted for this text. this report concerns the approval of the agreement between norway and the european union on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat. the agreement signed by the european commission and norway is an update of the fisheries agreements previously existing between norway and the european community and between norway and other scandinavian countries. the new agreement is adapted to changes in international law and guarantees the maintenance of reciprocal access to waters in the skagerrak and kattegat area for sweden, denmark and norway. it also ensures the implementation of fisheries conservation and management measures in this area.
in writing. ‒ this resolution endorses the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden to fishing activities in the skagerrak. it stresses in particular the better integration of the objectives of sustainable fisheries management with the introduction of the landing obligation and the maintenance of stocks above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield to be achieved. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ on 19 december 1966, denmark, norway and sweden signed an agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat. the 35-year agreement was extended for two five-year periods until 2012 and could be terminated by either party on three-year notice before the expiry of either of the two five-year periods. following the denunciation of the agreement by norway, a new agreement was signed on 15 january 2015 with the european union. the agreement, adapted to changes in international law, guarantees the maintenance of reciprocal access by the two member states concerned and norway to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, while ensuring conservation and fisheries management measures in that area and also allows for the adoption of control measures in accordance with the principles of normal coastal state jurisdiction. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ following the termination of the previous agreement, norway and the european union signed a new agreement on 15 january 2015 on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat. it is simply a matter of approving this agreement on behalf of the union. the new agreement is adapted to changes in international law and ensures that the two member states concerned and norway maintain reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, while ensuring the implementation of conservation and fisheries management measures in that area. it also allows for the adoption of control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this new agreement is adapted to changes in international law and ensures that the two member states concerned and norway maintain reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, while ensuring the implementation of conservation and fisheries management measures in this area. it also allows for the adoption of control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text approving the fisheries agreement with norway on access to the skagerrak. the agreement maintains the exclusive access of vessels of denmark, norway and sweden to their respective waters beyond 4 nautical miles from the baselines. it guarantees the maintenance of reciprocal access of these states to the waters of the other parties in the skagerrak and kattegat area, while ensuring the implementation of sound fisheries conservation and management measures. it also allows control measures to be adopted in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state, as for the north sea fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation for a fisheries agreement with norway to maintain the exclusive access enjoyed by danish and swedish vessels in their respective waters and in those of norway beyond four nautical miles from the baselines. in addition, this agreement will ensure that these same states retain reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak and kattegat area. in these areas, fishing rights are historical and predate the creation of states, so it is important that eu legislation respects these traditions.
in writing. ‒ following the termination of the previous agreement, norway and the european union signed a new agreement on 15 january 2015 on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat. it is simply a matter of approving this agreement on behalf of the union. the new agreement is adapted to changes in international law and ensures that the two member states concerned and norway maintain reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak area, while ensuring the implementation of conservation and fisheries management measures in that area. it also allows for the adoption of control measures in accordance with the principles of the normal jurisdiction of the coastal state. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this draft resolution asks the european commission to inform parliament and the council at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal . it also expressed some of the european parliament's reservations about the agreement with norway, pointing out that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity. in the case of norway, the commission is asked to put pressure on norway to ensure that the customs duties on agriculture, foodstuffs and fisheries which it imposes on the european union do not run counter to the principles of free trade. this is a problem because norway cannot be blamed for protecting its internal market to preserve its economy and its jobs. however, i did not vote against the motion for a resolution because this norwegian protectionism is at the expense of the member states of the union. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to give my approval to this new agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. signed on 15 january 2015, it is in line with the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the related provisions of other agreements concluded subsequently. following the expiry of the previous existing agreement in 2012, it was necessary to introduce a new text to allow a reciprocal agreement on fishing activities for norway, sweden and denmark.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution calls on the european commission to inform parliament and the council 'at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal'. it also expressed some of the european parliament's reservations about the agreement with norway, pointing out that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity. in this case, the commission is asked to put pressure on norway to ensure that the customs duties on agriculture, foodstuffs and fisheries which it imposes on the european union do not run counter to the principles of free trade. as a sovereignist, i cannot blame norway for wanting to protect its internal market in order to support its economy and jobs, but i believe we could get better deals without the european union.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this resolution on the agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. on the one hand, it is normal that as a sovereign nation, norway should be able to protect its fishing industry, and therefore its economy and its jobs, by means of measures which i would like to see for france, such as customs duties on fisheries in its trade with third countries, in the spirit of intelligent protectionism. as such, i find it scandalous that the european union, through the commission, wishes to put pressure on norway to submit to the dictates of wild free trade. however, i recognise that, on the basis of the principle that there is and will be an agreement based on access for norway to the internal market, there should be reciprocity, otherwise there is a risk that this agreement will be very unfavourable to the member states, and in particular to france.
in writing. ‒ this draft resolution asks the european commission to inform parliament and the council of all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement between the union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. the text expresses certain reservations about the agreement and recalls that norway's access to the internal market must be based on reciprocity. the commission is also asked to put pressure on the norwegian government to ensure that the customs duties on agricultural and food products it imposes on the eu member states do not run counter to the principles of free trade. it is true that norwegian protectionism is detrimental to the economic interests of the member states. nevertheless, we consider that the authorities in this scandinavian country are strongly defending their internal market in order to protect their businesses and jobs. it is therefore high time that we regained our national sovereignty and acted in the same way! i abstained on that report.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report concerns reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak, a strait between southern norway, south-eastern sweden and north-western denmark. norway, a non-eu country, has entered into formal negotiations with the european commission to secure reciprocal access to this highly prized fishing area, which is also exploited by eu members sweden and denmark. the agreement includes provisions for the sustainable management of fisheries in this area and control measures in line with the principles of coastal state jurisdiction. considering that this agreement ensures the rational exploitation and sustainable management of fish stocks in this international fishing area and that it will provide new opportunities for european fishermen, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report setting out recommendations for the proper follow-up to the agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. without prejudice to the adoption of this fisheries agreement between the union and one of its closest neighbours, it is imperative, for this agreement to be effective, that the european parliament be kept informed of the progress of the procedure for implementing the agreement. we also want the commission to ensure that the customs duties imposed by norway on foodstuffs are in fact in line with the provisions of the agreement on the european economic area.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the draft resolution calls on the european commission to inform parliament and the council at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal. the text also recalls that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity: norway imposes many customs duties on the member states of the european union. we are in favour of norwegian protectionism in principle. in this case, since it is to the detriment of certain european states, including france, we preferred abstention.
in writing. ‒ abstention: the draft resolution calls on the european commission to inform parliament and the council at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal.
in writing. ‒ the call in this resolution to put pressure on norway not to impede the principles of free trade runs counter to the conception of the economy that i would like to apply in our country. however, this protectionism put in place by norway is to the detriment of the member states of the european union. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. the text expresses some of the european parliament's reservations about this agreement with norway. it also stressed that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity. in the case of norway, the commission is asked to put pressure on norway to ensure that the customs duties on agriculture, foodstuffs and fisheries which it imposes on the european union do not run counter to the principles of free trade. this is a problem because norway cannot be blamed for protecting its internal market to preserve its economy and its jobs. i did not, however, vote against the motion for a resolution because this norwegian protectionism is at the expense of the member states of the union.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the resolution expresses parliament's reservations about the agreement between the european union and norway on fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat. the european parliament criticises norway for certain restrictive measures imposed to protect its internal market. it is a criticism which, of course, glorifies the principle of free trade, which we oppose. we cannot deprive norway of its right to preserve its economy and its jobs. however, we cannot vote against the motion for a resolution either, because norwegian protectionism is obviously to the detriment of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ an agreement signed in 1966 between denmark, norway and sweden on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak and kattegat entered into force on 7 august 1967. with the accession of denmark and sweden to the european union in 1973 and 1995 respectively, the commission took over the management of the agreement on behalf of these two member states. in the light of more recent developments in international fisheries law, norway considered that the existing agreement was no longer in line with the provisions of the law of the sea and with modern conservation and management principles. a new agreement was proposed in 2014: it guarantees the maintenance of reciprocal access of the two member states concerned and norway to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak and kattegat, while ensuring the implementation of conservation measures and sound fisheries management in this area. the approval of the european parliament is required for the conclusion of this agreement. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ following on from the previous report, this draft resolution seeks to ask the european commission to keep parliament and the council informed of all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal. the agreement with norway is subject to certain reservations, particularly as regards access to the internal market of norway for third countries. the commission is asked to press for the customs duties on agriculture, foodstuffs and fisheries imposed by norway not to be contrary to the principle of free trade. this criticism of norway, which only wishes to protect its internal market, led me to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution calls on the european commission to inform parliament and the council 'at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal'. it also expressed some of the european parliament's reservations about the agreement with norway, pointing out that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity. in the case of norway, the commission is asked to put pressure on norway to ensure that the customs duties on agriculture, foodstuffs and fisheries which it imposes on the european union do not run counter to the principles of free trade. this is a problem for us because we cannot blame norway for protecting its internal market to preserve its economy and its jobs. however, we shall not vote against the motion for a resolution because this norwegian protectionism is being used to the detriment of the member states of the union. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution calls on the european commission to inform parliament and the council at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal. it also expressed some of the european parliament's reservations about the agreement with norway, pointing out that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity. in the case of norway, the commission is asked to put pressure on norway to ensure that the customs duties on agriculture, foodstuffs and fisheries which it imposes on the european union do not run counter to the principles of free trade. this is what concerns me, because you cannot blame norway for protecting its internal market to preserve its economy and its jobs. i shall not vote against the motion for a resolution, however, because this norwegian protectionism is at the expense of the member states of the union. i shall abstain on that resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which accompanies the approval of the fisheries agreement with norway on access to the skagerrak. the text considers that the agreement respects the historical fishing rights of fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden in the kattegat and skagerrak without prejudice to the rights of fishermen from other states. it also ensures that appropriate measures are taken to manage and maintain fisheries in these areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the fisheries agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak, and therefore i am voting in favour of this resolution. this agreement will maintain the exclusive access enjoyed by danish and swedish vessels in their respective waters and in those of norway beyond four nautical miles from the baselines. it will also guarantee that these same states will continue to have reciprocal access to the respective waters of the other parties in the skagerrak and kattegat. in these areas, fishing rights are historical and predate the creation of states, so it is important that eu legislation respects these traditions.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution calls on the european commission to inform parliament and the council 'at all stages of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal'. it also expressed some of the european parliament's reservations about the agreement with norway, pointing out that access to the internal market for any third country must be based on reciprocity. in the case of norway, the commission is asked to put pressure on norway to ensure that the customs duties on agriculture, foodstuffs and fisheries which it imposes on the european union do not run counter to the principles of free trade. this is what concerns me, because you cannot blame norway for protecting its internal market to preserve its economy and its jobs. i shall not, however, vote against the motion for a resolution because this norwegian protectionism is being used to the detriment of the member states of the union. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. as a matter of principle, together with my colleagues from the front national, we are opposed to the exchange of personal data of french citizens, so we are opposed to all operational agreements that europol wants to conclude with third countries. that's why i opposed the deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that europol needs to strengthen its operational cooperation with georgia. the country now plays an important role in the fight against terrorism and organised crime as a transit country for foreign fighters. the conclusion of such an agreement would therefore facilitate and intensify the fight against these scourges.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia. cooperation would include the exchange of information, particularly personal information: i am opposed to the sharing of information concerning french citizens. i will oppose in the same way any similar operational agreements that europol might want to conclude with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. my main objection is to the exchange of personal data, which i strongly oppose as it jeopardises the freedom of citizens, in particular their right to privacy. i also think that this measure is useless in the fight against crime or terrorism: it leads to the suspicion of all citizens for crimes or crimes whose perpetrators are, in general, already known to the services. i would like to stress, however, that i am not against exchanges of information, in particular on criminal investigation procedures or methods of crime prevention, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i do not accept the exchange of personal data of french citizens and therefore i am opposed to all operational agreements that europol wants to conclude with third countries. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ europol has initiated a procedure to conclude an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia in order to increase efficiency in preventing and combating crime. the terms of this cooperation provide for exchanges of information including general reports, results of strategic analyses and information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods. however, the agreement also includes exchanges of personal data, which we strongly oppose. we believe that improving the effectiveness of the fight against organised crime depends rather on the ability of member states to regain their territorial sovereignty, without which governments cannot eradicate criminal and terrorist networks that use the porosity of national borders to proliferate. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this consultation report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. this information may relate to specialised knowledge, general situation reports or the results of strategic analyses. i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve the effectiveness of the prevention of terrorist attacks and public security.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol, the european police office. while europol plays a fundamental role in the fight against terrorism at european level, we must strengthen its action through better cooperation with third countries. better information exchange with georgia, which is not only an important partner in the fight against organised crime but also a transit country for foreign fighters who have joined terrorist organisations, is essential to complete the european security arsenal.
in writing. - i voted against this text. in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia. the information covered by such exchanges shall include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. we oppose the exchange of personal information, which is provided for in particular under the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the europol-georgia cooperation agreement provides for the exchange of operational, strategic, technical, personal or classified information between the european police office and georgia. the agreement is of particular importance in view of georgia's growing role in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. since 2015, my group has been in favour of waiting for the new europol regulation to enter into force, which is expected in may 2017, before concluding new cooperation agreements. sharing this view, i therefore decided to abstain on this vote, as i did with europol's previous operational and strategic cooperation agreements with china, the united arab emirates, bosnia and herzegovina and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament has authorised the conclusion of a technical, strategic and operational cooperation agreement between georgia and europol. this cooperation is all the more important as georgia is located on the doorstep of turkey and armenia, close to a turbulent region including iran, syria and iraq, placing it at a strategic crossroads for criminal networks and terrorists. this cooperation is therefore fundamental, since the potential for harm caused by these criminal networks, traffickers and terrorists, including foreign fighters returning from syria, extends far beyond the borders of europe. therefore, the fight against these scourges is a common struggle that can only be waged collectively through the exchange of information and the provision of material, human and operational support.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between europol and georgia, which provides for exchanges of information in various fields of competence, also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. as i am opposed to any exchange of this type of data with regard to french citizens, i make no exception with third countries. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes on cooperation between georgia and europol. europol was set up to enhance security in the european area and its mission is to combat crime and facilitate cooperation between the various police services. i support this initiative which is intended to strengthen our security operations. the agreement provides for exchanges of information and strategic analysis with the georgian police services to help better combat terrorism and organised crime. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. this agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data of french citizens, which i consider unacceptable. i am also in favour of greater international cooperation between police services, but this cooperation must remain intergovernmental.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this report is to give the european parliament's consent to operational and strategic cooperation between europol and georgia. in reality, it is the exchange of personal data of european citizens. this report thus directly affects the security of french citizens' data. that is why we are opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ parliament is hereby consulted on the approval of a cooperation agreement between georgia and europol, the european police office. at a minimum, it should be ensured that the countries with which the eu concludes such agreements offer all the guarantees of respect for the rule of law, but above all of commitment to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. especially when it comes to exchanging personal data of citizens like this. i have opposed previous similar agreements, notably with the united arab emirates and ukraine. these cooperations are the result of geopolitical choices which i do not approve of. the council is pushing for all these agreements with third countries before the end of 2016 in order to give europol full latitude for 2017 when its new regulation will come into force, which will pose an even greater threat to the security of our personal data. europol arbitrarily collects personal data in europe and may refuse to disclose it to the citizens concerned who request it. the scandal of the giant spy revelations by the nsa and the german authorities of the governments and european institutions will therefore have served nothing for brussels. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this cooperation agreement between georgia and europol provides for exchanges of information including expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. in addition, the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. i am totally opposed to the exchange of this kind of data, and in line with my previous votes on the same subject, i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. we do not accept the exchange of personal data of french citizens, so we are opposed to any operational agreements that europol wants to conclude with third countries. abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. i do not accept the exchange of personal data of french citizens, so i am opposed to all operational agreements that europol wants to conclude with third countries and i vote against these reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. the aim of the agreement is to support the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. the exchange of information will enable the eu member states and georgia to prevent organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime. the fight against these phenomena is a constant struggle.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. i do not accept the exchange of personal data of french citizens, so i am opposed to all operational agreements that europol wants to conclude with third countries. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ spain has applied for financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies in the automotive sector involving a total of 29 companies. 250 redundant workers eligible for a contribution from the fund should be involved in the measures in question. it is important to note that the 27 eu countries faced a decline of 0.5 million units in motor vehicle production between 2006 and 2015, while global production increased by 31.1%, notably in china, as well as in other countries in south-east asia. the mobilisation of the fund therefore seems particularly appropriate. it should also be noted that 50% of the redundant employees concerned do not have a degree, and that the economic situation in the region is particularly catastrophic (there have been no new factories opening in the region recently). it is normal for a state to get some of the money it pays back to the eu, especially if it allows it to repair, even if insufficiently, the immense damage caused by the eu's imposed full opening of borders. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for eur 1 428 000 to help 250 employees of the spanish company bosal s.a. to re-enter the workforce. however, i regret that the aid is being paid out in conjunction with the redundancies, whereas it could have been of great value in helping the company to restructure. it is urgent to act and to understand that our companies are the victims of the lack of structural reforms necessary to adapt them to the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ spain submitted this application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies in the automotive sector, involving a total of 29 companies. it should be noted that 50% of the redundant employees concerned do not have a degree, and that the economic situation in the region is particularly catastrophic. the funds released would finance, in total, up to 25% of actions such as information sessions, vocational integration programmes, allowances, travel and relocation costs and recruitment subsidies. i am naturally in favour of a state getting back some of the money it pays to the union, and especially if it allows it to compensate, even a little, for the catastrophic damage that is the consequence of the total opening of the borders. i therefore voted in favour of this mobilisation, although i remain very critical of the very logic of this fund which reveals that the eu is acting like a pyromaniac fireman.
in writing. spain submitted an application egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana following redundancies in the automotive sector in the community of valencia (comunidad valenciana). while the eu-27 faced a decline of 0.5 million units in motor vehicle production between 2006 and 2015 (a decrease of 2.8%), global production increased by 31.1%, particularly in china and other countries in south-east asia. there were 250 redundancies in valencia and it is therefore proposed that the egf should contribute to the coordinated package of personalised services to the tune of eur 856 800. i voted in favour of workers who are victims of globalisation, but i regret the eu's policy of total opening of borders which is leading to this situation.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of 250 workers made redundant in the automotive industry in spain. these funds will be used to finance vocational reorientation and reintegration programmes for these workers. it is important to note that motor vehicle production contracted by 0.5 million units between 2006 and 2015 in the european union, while global production increased by 31%. our industry is suffering from unfair international competition, exacerbated by social, environmental and monetary dumping, particularly by emerging countries. the european union is not tackling the roots of deindustrialisation in the member states, but rather splashing taxpayers' money around to mitigate the disastrous consequences of unbridled globalisation. i voted in favour of this text, however, out of solidarity with spanish workers who, like those in france, are suffering the consequences of the european employment policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by spain for the redundancies of 29 automotive companies in the valencia region. the fund's contribution is eur 856 800 for 250 redundant workers. this request was justified in view of the global competition in the automotive sector and the current economic difficulties facing the valencia region.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to enable spain to receive financial contributions from the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant. the redundancies caused by the bankruptcy of bosal sa are part of the consequent loss of market share in the european union's automotive industry. the european union must help the country to reconvert workers who have been made redundant, at a time when unemployment is a major problem.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the request was made by spain following redundancies in the automotive sector, involving a total of 29 firms and 250 workers made redundant - mostly low-skilled and based in an economically distressed region. the european context is as follows: a decrease of 0.5 million units in motor vehicle production between 2006 and 2015 in the european union of 27 member states against an increase in global production of 31.1%. funding from the egf, which represents 25% of the total expenditure, should finance vocational retraining measures for these workers. i am in favour of the egf's aid, even if it is directed at the consequences and not at the causes of the economic collapse caused by the excesses of economic liberalism.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: spain has submitted application egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana automobile for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies in the automotive sector, for a total of 29 companies. 250 redundant workers eligible for a contribution from the fund should be involved in the measures in question.
in writing. ‒ the decline in motor vehicle production has affected all eu member states, but not the world, and asia in particular. it seems to me that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is quite timely in this context, given the difficult economic situation in the region and the bloodshed caused by the unreasonable opening of borders. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr esteban gonzalez pons, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs. the fund will provide eur 856 800 for the 250 redundant employees. this amount will be used to finance training, counselling and support services to help these redundant workers return to work. i am glad that this report has been adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of spain to obtain a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies in the automotive sector, involving a total of 29 companies. 250 redundant workers eligible for a contribution from the fund should participate in the measures for reintegration into the labour market. i am of course in favour of a state getting back some of the money it pays to the eu, especially if it allows it to repair, even if insufficiently, the immense damage caused by the eu's imposed total opening of borders.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the purpose of this text is to release a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of eur 856 000 for spain. it represents 60% of the total cost of re-employing 250 recently dismissed workers in this country. this amount would be allocated to former employees in the automotive sector who were made redundant following a significant decline in production in 29 automotive companies in spain. it is important to note that all european countries have recently experienced a decline in the number of motor vehicle production units, while world production has been increasing, particularly in china. the mobilisation of the egf therefore seems particularly appropriate in this case.
in writing. ‒ a car equipment production site in the valencian community in spain has closed, leaving 250 employees and subcontractors stranded. this is not the first time bosal has been involved in a crime. it closed its tailpipe site in annezin in the pas-de-calais and in antwerp in belgium. always the same old story: the site wouldn't be profitable. the employees of valenciennes object. and they just won their trial on november 25th. verdict: account make-up to the site in the czech republic. the 'globalisation of trade' which justifies the activation of this fund therefore makes it difficult to conceal cheating and dumping. and this company specializes in emission control systems! after the volkswagen affair, one would have thought that this parliament would be interested in it. no, in committee the majority voted against my colleague from podemos' amendments which called for the reimbursement of social costs paid by taxpayers for fraudulent activity by a company. the workers are still waiting for their compensation. i'm not going to send them help, but i'm calling this bail a fraud.
in writing. ‒ this is in response to a request from the comunidad valenciana for payment from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 250 workers in the automotive sector and concerning 29 companies. the european union is facing a decline in car production while world production is increasing by 31.1%. in addition, 50% of the redundant employees have no qualifications and the economic situation in this region is dramatic. from this point of view, it seems to me legitimate that the comunidad valenciana should benefit from this european fund. this is all the more so as it is only a fair return of the money paid by spain to the european union responsible for this catastrophic situation by the total opening of the borders. i therefore voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ spain submitted application egf/2016/004 es/comunidad valenciana automobile for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies in the automotive sector, for a total of 29 companies. 250 redundant workers eligible for a contribution from the fund should be involved in the measures in question. i am of course in favour of a state getting back some of the money it pays to the eu, especially if it allows it to repair, even if insufficiently, the immense damage caused by the eu's imposed total opening of borders. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i am of course in favour of a state getting back some of the money it pays to the european union, especially if it allows it to repair, even if insufficiently, the immense damage caused by the union's imposed total opening of borders. i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 250 workers made redundant in 29 car companies in the valencia region of spain. the aim is to provide eur 856 800 to co-finance the job search, vocational guidance, retraining and mobility projects of these dismissed employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 250 workers made redundant in 29 companies in the valencia region of spain following the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a. it is important that europe can help workers who have been hit hard by the recent economic crisis. we must enable them to re-enter the labour market more quickly, and i am thinking in particular of the workers in the motor industry who have been particularly affected by this crisis.
in writing. ‒ spain submitted this application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies in the automotive sector, involving a total of 29 companies. 250 redundant workers eligible for a contribution from the fund should be involved in the measures in question. it should also be noted that 50% of the redundant employees concerned do not have a degree, and that the economic situation in the region is particularly catastrophic. the funds released will finance (overall 25%) actions such as information sessions, career guidance, vocational integration programmes, campaigns to promote entrepreneurship, or allowances and incentive measures for dismissed workers, contributions to their travel and relocation costs, and recruitment subsidies. i am of course in favour of a state getting back the money it pays to the eu, especially if it allows it to make up, even if only inadequately, for the immense damage caused by the total opening of the borders. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this report approves the payment of a contribution of eur 856 800 to finance the reintegration into working life of 250 workers made redundant by bosal sa and its subcontractors in sagunto (valencia, spain). however, the valencia public prosecutor's office asked on 24 november that the multinational be found guilty of embezzlement, since bosal sa is suspected of having aggravated its state of insolvency by transactions of legacies of wealth and the transfer of their assets (but no liabilities to companies of the group or related) in order to be able to declare bankruptcy and relocate its production to mexico without paying compensation due to employees. bosal sa could be ordered to pay €15 million in compensation to employees. in this context, and given that the multinational in question makes between 500 million and 1 billion euros in profits a year, i would like to say that it is unacceptable for the european union to pay such a contribution which should be paid by bosal sa. i have nevertheless decided to abstain, fearing that if i fail to do so, bosal sa's employees will once again have to pay the consequences of their employer's abuses, but i regret that the company will not be asked to reimburse the sums paid in the event of a final conviction.
in writing. ‒ this report is the least comprehensive of the three reports constituting the kyllönen report, since it deals only with the abrogation of the current rules on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the purpose of the regulation is to enable railway undertakings to be compensated by local authorities for the significant charges which they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. the commission found that due to the regulatory changes that have taken place over the last 10 years, the current regulation is inappropriate as it is discriminatory: it allows compensation for designated companies but not for others. i voted against this report, which is part of the market part of the fourth railway package, which should be rejected as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the regulation to which this report refers is intended to enable railway undertakings to be compensated by local authorities for the high costs they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. the commission found that, due to the regulatory changes that have taken place over the last 10 years, the current regulation is inappropriate as it is discriminatory: it allows compensation for designated companies but not for others. i voted in favour of the amendment tabled by my colleague from the national front, marie-christine arnautu, to reject the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the three reports on the railway package. the secondary objective of the governance report (sassoli) is to increase the supply and quality of services by making the rail market more accessible to new companies. such a policy has led to a 20% drop in rail freight in france... what is worse, the van de camp report introduces an obligation to compete, including in public service cases, by conducting a real hunt for all forms of subsidies. a policy which runs counter to national interests and economic protectionism. the aim of the kyllonen report is to enable railway undertakings to be compensated by local authorities for the high costs they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. he's not fit.
in writing. ‒ this report, which challenges the current rules on the standardisation of accounts of railway undertakings, which allow local authorities to compensate them for their burdens linked to collective agreements, can only lead to more social dumping by putting companies with an advanced social dialogue in a weak position. that is why i am voting against. i vote for the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this report is an integral part of the fourth railway package and deals with the abrogation of the current rules on the standardisation of accounts of railway undertakings. the purpose of the text is to encourage local authorities to compensate railway undertakings for the substantial charges they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. the european commission found that, due to the regulatory changes, the current regulation was inappropriate and even discriminatory, as it allowed compensation only for designated companies. i am firmly opposed to the railway package, i voted against this text which does not make any substantial changes to the existing regulations, and i voted in favour of the proposal for rejection.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of this legislative report is to repeal the common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the member states could compensate railway undertakings for the payment of obligations which undertakings in other modes of transport were not required to pay for various reasons. the commission considers that the regulation no longer respects the current legal framework and discriminates between railway undertakings, and therefore between those eligible for compensation and those excluded from the list. the european parliament is therefore following the european commission and proposing to repeal this regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used for the transport of goods.
in writing. i voted in favour of the repeal of the regulation on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, in order to improve the quality of rail passenger services. this regulation, adopted before the liberalisation of rail services, is now totally unsuited to the current situation on the rail services market and, with the exception of a few measures, is no longer applied by the member states. however, measures to compensate for the costs of crossing the railway still remain useful for european rail services. therefore, and in order to allow for an effective transition, it is necessary to provide for a transitional period until 31 december 2017 for those measures only.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these three reports from the railway package and, consequently, for the amendments calling for their withdrawal, in particular those tabled by the enf group, represented by marie-christine arnautu. these reports cover the following points: amendment of the directive establishing a single european railway area; opening up to competition of the market for national passenger transport services; repeal of the regulation on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway companies; opening up of national passenger transport markets. these reports confirm the separation of the activities of the operator and the operator and extend the application of the competition principles to services which were previously exempt from them. we oppose this new reform, which is in line with the previous railway packages: their consequences in france have been catastrophic (a 20% drop in freight in 5 years).
in writing. ‒ vote against the three reports in the railway package as being unsuitable for the development of the sector.
in writing. ‒ the project suffers from its vacuity in that it concerns only the abrogation of the current rules on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague merja kyllönen on the abrogation of the rules on the standardisation of accounts of railway undertakings. this text is part of the fourth railway package, which aims to create a european railway area. however, the regulation in question was no longer in line with the current legal environment and therefore had to be repealed.
in writing. ‒ the railway sector is a major challenge in europe, and particularly in france, from an economic and environmental point of view. i have therefore supported this report on the 'normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings' which is part of the fourth railway package, because it takes a balanced and responsible view. without going into a frantic liberalism, it promotes effective decisions to give new opportunities to the hauliers. these new measures make it possible to open up the passenger transport market, by providing sufficient guarantees that this will not be done at the expense of spatial planning. in the end, users will see the offer improve and the regions will have more freedom of choice in their providers. the time is not right for liberalization which would benefit our international competitors first and foremost and encourage social dumping. with this fourth railway package, we are making this sector more competitive, while respecting social rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the report on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the report by mrs kyllönen, which deals only with the repeal and replacement of the current rules on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, is part of the fourth railway package, which i am opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the standardisation of accounts and therefore against this text. this text, like the other two reports of the fourth railway package, concerns the market component. the purpose of this text is to repeal the current rules on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the current regulation is discriminatory in designating which companies can receive compensation, and we are opposed to this.
in writing. ‒ this text is one of the three texts forming the 'market' part of the fourth railway package. the case concerned the abolition of a regulation governing the financing of pensions and accidents at work for railway workers. the aim is to end the possibility for states to pay compensation to railway undertakings in connection with their social obligations. the text thus attacks the ability of the states to finance an efficient social system and decent working conditions for employees, which is unacceptable. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an amendment to the directive establishing a single european railway area, and more specifically on the governance of railway infrastructure. this is a technical and accounting report included in the fourth railway package, which we reject. that's why i objected.
in writing. ‒ the three reports which constitute the fourth part of the railway package are in line with the desired liberalisation of rail in all its aspects. french freight has already paid the price for such measures, it is obviously unthinkable to endorse such texts. the eu still refuses to understand that people want efficient and affordable public services and protection of their jobs. the time of permanent liberalism, which destroys the social fabric for the benefit of a few, must end. against it.
in writing. ‒ this report deals only with the abolition of the current rules on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the purpose of the regulation is to enable railway undertakings to be compensated by local authorities for the significant charges which they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. the commission found that due to the regulatory changes that have taken place over the last 10 years, the current regulation is inappropriate as it is discriminatory: it allows compensation for designated companies but not for others. i am voting against this report which is an integral part of the disastrous 'railway package'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the aim is to adopt a council act as part of the implementation of the fourth railway package, in order to make european rail more competitive and safer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the commission's decision to repeal the regulation on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. it allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for payments which were not supported by undertakings in other modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ this report is inconsistent as it deals only with the abrogation of the current rules on the standardisation of accounts of railway undertakings. the purpose of the regulation is to enable railway undertakings to be compensated by local authorities for the significant charges which they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. the commission found that due to the regulatory changes that have taken place over the last 10 years, the current regulation is inappropriate as it is discriminatory: it allows compensation for designated companies but not for others. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the 'competition' report of the market component of the 4th railway package introduces an obligation to compete, including in the case of public services which must also be subject, with three minor exceptions, to the competition principle and to the call for tenders. it aims to ensure that the financial compensation granted is strictly proportionate (to the disguised subsidies). at the request of groups, particularly those on the left, the obligation to comply with the social rules of the states and collective agreements was inserted in the regulation. i'm glad that companies have to obey the law. the fact that such evidence is laid on paper is proof that it is only intended for political display. the increase in the number of providers is itself a source of increased fraud and social dumping, especially in the case of international journeys. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report introduces an obligation to put in place a competitive tendering procedure, including in public service cases, which must also be subject to the competition principle and the call for tenders, with three minor exceptions. it aims to ensure that financial compensation is strictly proportionate to combat disguised subsidies. the regulation has been supplemented by the obligation to comply with the social rules of the states and collective agreements, as if previously companies did not have to comply with the law; the fact that such evidence is laid on paper is proof that it is only intended for political display. the increase in the number of providers would in itself lead to an increase in fraud and social dumping, especially in the case of international travel, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the three reports on the railway package. the secondary objective of the 'governance' (sassoli) report, which aims to open up national passenger transport markets, is to increase the supply and quality of services by making the rail market more accessible to new companies. such a policy has led to a 20% drop in rail freight in france... the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a policy which runs counter to national interests and economic protectionism. the aim of the kyllonen report is to enable railway undertakings to be compensated by local authorities for the high costs they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. he's not fit.
in writing. ‒ this report, which proposes an obligation to make these railway undertakings compete, including in the context of public service missions, is in line with the view that there should be a multiplication of players, including international players, which introduces a clear risk of social dumping. i therefore vote against. i vote in favour of the rejection amendment tabled by my group.
in writing. ‒ this report is an integral part of the fourth railway package and introduces an obligation to put national rail passenger services into competition. the text also aims to ensure that financial compensation is strictly proportionate in order to limit disguised subsidies. although this report obliges companies to comply with the legislation of the member states, which is obvious, we consider that the proliferation of providers is a source of social fraud and of abusive use of posted workers. that is why i voted against this text and for the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to establish the principle of compulsory tendering for public passenger transport services. the aim of this proposal is to open up national rail markets to competition in order to improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport and to further develop the single european railway area. i believe that the special interests of france, particularly in the high-speed lines, have been respected and that french rail services will have the opportunity to conquer new markets in our european neighbours, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. opening up national rail services markets is one of the main objectives of the fourth european railway package, which aims to improve the quality of rail services for european citizens. however, this objective can only be achieved if the same rules for the award of contracts are respected in the various member states. it was therefore crucial to harmonise the european railway area by introducing the use of calls for tender in the award of public service contracts for passenger transport by rail. aware of the characteristics of this market and the requirements of public services, we have also provided for situations of exemptions from strictly defined characteristics which allow the contract to be awarded directly without a call for tenders. i therefore voted in favour of this text, because it allows the development of competition in rail services to the benefit of the european citizen.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these three reports from the railway package and, consequently, for the amendments calling for their withdrawal, in particular those tabled by the enf group, represented by marie-christine arnautu. the reports cover the following points: amendment of the directive establishing a single european railway area; opening up the market for national passenger transport services to competition; repeal of the regulation on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway companies; opening up national passenger transport markets. these reports confirm the separation of the activities of the operator and the operator and extend the application of the competition principles to services which were previously exempt from them. we oppose this new reform, which is in line with the previous railway packages: their consequences in france have been catastrophic (a 20% drop in freight in 5 years).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the three reports which open up national rail passenger services to competition. in all the activities you deregulated, the same problems arise today: declining quality of services, opacity of rates, dilution of responsibilities... the very way in which this 'progressive' opening to competition is organised guarantees a market segmentation: first the high-speed and national lines, then the profitable regional traffic... the rest will be borne by the local authority, as will the maintenance of the network. the fees that new entrants will have to pay will not be enough to upgrade a french network that has been damaged by thirty years of absolute priority for the tgv at the expense of everything else, since you are reproducing the same pattern. already, the state has announced that it will put its hand in the pocket, or rather in that of the french taxpayer. and i'm not talking about the risk of social dumping. you have learned nothing from the failure of the liberalization of rail freight, particularly in france, nor from the results of the liberalization of passenger transport in germany. this time, you're playing with the safety of the passengers.
in writing. ‒ the opening up of the rail transport market will ensure that citizens benefit from quality services at the best price, in particular through the opening up of public contracts to european competition, which will stimulate rail activity and the economy. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal because competition will make rail more attractive than other more polluting modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ the objectives pursued by this report, such as the principle of competition and the obligation to comply with the state social standards and collective agreements, reflect a purely political interest. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague wim van de camp on the opening of the market for rail passenger services. as part of the fourth railway package, this legislative proposal aims to improve the quality of rail passenger services and to strengthen the competitiveness of rail in relation to other modes of transport. the railway sector needs to be stimulated, as we are experiencing a revolution in the road (uber, carpooling, etc.) and air (low-cost companies). however, this opening up must of course be controlled and must not in any case lead to liberalization which would expose us dangerously to international competitors and encourage social dumping. that is why my colleagues and i have ensured that the railway package does not create a wild competitive environment. we have also obtained sufficient guarantees that the opening will not be carried out at the expense of the development of the territory.
in writing. ‒ the railway sector is a major challenge in europe, and particularly in france, from an economic and environmental point of view. i have therefore supported this report on 'national passenger rail services' which is part of the fourth railway package, because it has a balanced and responsible approach. without going into a frantic liberalism, it promotes effective decisions to give new opportunities to the hauliers. these new measures make it possible to open up the passenger transport market, by providing sufficient guarantees that this will not be done at the expense of spatial planning. in the end, users will see the offer improve and the regions will have more freedom of choice in their providers. the time is not right for liberalization which would benefit our international competitors first and foremost and encourage social dumping. with this fourth railway package, we are making this sector more competitive, while respecting social rights.
in writing. ‒ this opens up national rail markets to competition from 2020. from that date, the state and the regions will issue public procurement tenders for a maximum of 10 years for the various lines to be operated. not only is the monopoly, the know-how of sncf and the whole organisation of the public service called into question, but it is to replace them with very short-term private concessions (10 years is nothing for the railway) which will discourage the necessary long-term investments. for us, the users, and for the railway workers, the consequences are colossal. the entry of a profit logic and liberalization marks the end of the public service provided by a public company. they also mark the end of the equalization systems which make it possible to finance the least profitable lines by the most profitable ones and thus ensure territorial cohesion. it is the primacy of profit over service over the user and the working conditions of the railway workers. i voted against this because i am in favour of a public rail service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments rejecting the report on national rail passenger services. i welcome the fact that not only the enl group, but three other political groups tabled an amendment rejecting it. the 'competition' report of the fourth railway package introduces a competition obligation, including in public service cases, which must also be subject, with three minor exceptions, to the competition principle and to the call for tenders. at the request of certain groups, the obligation to comply with the social rules of the states and collective agreements was inserted in the regulation. i'm glad that companies have to obey the law. the fact that such evidence is laid on paper is proof that it is only intended for political display. the multiplication of providers is itself a source of increased fraud and social dumping, especially in the case of international journeys.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text, like the other two reports of the fourth railway package, concerns the market component. this text appears to introduce an obligation to compete but in reality has only a political communication purpose. the increase in the number of providers is also one of the causes of the increase in fraud and social dumping, which we are fighting against with all our might.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to further open up national passenger transport markets. to this end, the commission proposed to introduce an obligation to put public service contracts up for competition in order to intensify the competitive pressure on national railway markets. barriers to the award of direct public service contracts are being put in place. in particular, the obligation to provide justification and the possibility for other transport operators to provide opinions. finally, this text makes it possible to deprive the national authorities of their last possibilities of action in the field of railway and public transport policy. the public transport service must instead be placed at the heart of a policy of ecological transition. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this is a proposal to amend the regulation on the opening to competition of the market for national passenger transport services by rail. it will be the death knell for the public passenger rail service, which is why i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ the three reports which constitute the fourth part of the railway package are in line with the desired liberalisation of rail in all its aspects. french freight has already paid the price for such measures, it is obviously unthinkable to endorse such texts. the eu still refuses to understand that people want efficient and affordable public services and protection of their jobs. the time of permanent liberalism, which destroys the social fabric for the benefit of a few, must end. against it.
in writing. ‒ this report introduces a requirement to put in place a competition regime, including for public services which must also be subject, with three minor exceptions, to the competition principle and to the call for tenders. it aims to ensure that the financial compensation granted is strictly proportionate (to the disguised subsidies). at the request of groups, particularly those on the left, the obligation to comply with the social rules of the states and collective agreements was inserted in the regulation. i'm glad that companies have to obey the law. the fact that such evidence is laid on paper is proof that it is only intended for political display. the increase in the number of providers is itself a source of increased fraud and social dumping, especially in the case of international journeys. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the opening of the market for national rail passenger services, which is part of the fourth railway package which aims to make european rail more competitive and safer. the resolution endorses the council's position and reminds member states that they must fully respect the directive on the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings and that they may even go beyond the application of the directive by taking additional measures to protect staff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the regulation on public passenger transport services by rail. the socialist and democratic group made several progresses on this text, notably to allow local authorities to award public service contracts directly while the commission wanted to make competition compulsory. this was a fundamental issue in order to leave the necessary room for manoeuvre to local authorities to decide how public services in transport should be organised. however, i deeply regret that this text does not incorporate strong social guarantees to ensure that competition does not come at the expense of workers. the socialist and democratic group also tabled an amendment in plenary to reintroduce compulsory transfer. unfortunately, the right wing has blocked this amendment, which would have made it possible to protect workers in the event of the opening up of the market, so that competition does not feed the social underprivileged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was necessary to modernise access to the national market for railway operators. travellers expect a more competitive (quality/price) offer and we are now able to deliver. this opening up to competition will, however, have to be controlled in order to ensure the highest level of service quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the regulation on public passenger transport services by rail. the socialist and democratic group made several progresses on this text, notably to allow local authorities to award public service contracts directly while the commission wanted to make competition compulsory. this was a fundamental issue for me in order to leave the necessary room for manoeuvre to local authorities to decide how public services in transport should be organised. however, i deeply regret that this text does not incorporate strong social guarantees to ensure that competition does not come at the expense of workers. throughout the negotiations, i have been committed to ensuring that the principle of compulsory transfer in the event of a change of operator is incorporated in the text. the socialist and democratic group also tabled an amendment in plenary to reintroduce compulsory transfer. unfortunately, the right wing has blocked this amendment, which would have made it possible to protect workers in the event of the opening up of the market, so that competition does not feed the social underprivileged.
in writing. ‒ the socialists and democrats group won on several key points during the legislative process. first, the competitive tendering of public service contracts will not be mandatory, so that public entities will be able to conclude such contracts directly without a tendering procedure being implemented. in addition, access by private operators to railway infrastructure may be restricted if it jeopardises the margins of an operator with a public service mission. these two advances guarantee the sustainability of public services, territorial cohesion and access to rail infrastructure for all. the council's position is not acceptable from a social point of view. the latter does not provide for automatic and compulsory transfer of staff in the event of a change of operator, and the majority group in parliament has blocked the adoption of an amendment to this effect. the protection of workers is therefore not adequately ensured. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution rejecting the council's position on the regulation on the opening of the market for national rail passenger services.
in writing. ‒ the competition report (van de camp) introduces an obligation to compete, including in public service cases, which must also be subject, with three minor exceptions, to the competition principle and the call for tenders. it aims to ensure that the financial compensation granted is strictly proportionate (to the disguised subsidies). the multiplication of providers is itself a source of increased fraud and social dumping, especially in the case of international journeys. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the 'governance' report of the 'market' strand of the fourth railway package aims to open up national passenger transport markets. the aim is to intensify competition to increase the supply and quality of services, to make the railway market equal to any company. the report points out that these measures have made rail freight a success: in france it is -20% in 5 years! another objective is obviously to combat global warming... this 'governance' report aims at separating the activities of the operator and the manager by eliminating the double-caps of operator and manager (which would encourage conflicts of interest). the only positive aspect of this report is that companies already convicted of serious (what is the definition of 'serious') breaches of binding collective agreements cannot obtain a licence to carry out passenger transport by rail. it should be noted that sncf has been condemned several times for this reason... i was, of course, against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to increase competition in order, in theory, to increase the supply and quality of services by making the railway market equally accessible to all companies. it aims at separating the activities of the operator and the manager by eliminating the double-caps of operator and manager, which would inevitably encourage conflicts of interest. the rapporteur points out that these provisions have made rail freight a success. however, in france, the result of such a policy has been a 20% decrease in intercités attendance over five years. the only positive point would be that companies already convicted of serious breaches of binding collective agreements would not be able to obtain a licence to carry out passenger transport by rail. it should be noted, however, that sncf has already been convicted on these grounds on several occasions, without any result. this report would therefore be either useless or harmful to france, and i voted to reject the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the three reports on the railway package. the secondary objective of the 'governance' (sassoli) report, which aims to open up national passenger transport markets, is to increase the supply and quality of services by making the rail market more accessible to new companies. such a policy has led to a 20% drop in rail freight in france... the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a policy which runs counter to national interests and economic protectionism. the aim of the kyllonen report is to enable railway undertakings to be compensated by local authorities for the high costs they have to pay, in particular as a result of their collective agreements. he's not fit.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make the european railway market a level playing field for all companies, at the expense of each member state's national strategic choices, by separating the activities of the manager and those of the operator, and by eliminating the double-caps of operator and manager. he claims that this liberalization will make rail freight successful, whereas in france it has fallen by 20% in five years. i therefore vote against this report. i shall vote in favour of the rejection amendment tabled by my group.
in writing. ‒ this report is an integral part of the fourth railway package and aims to open up national passenger transport markets. the aim is to increase competition in order to improve the quality of services offered while contributing to lower prices in the interests of customers. past experience shows the opposite, as in the united kingdom where prices have been rising steadily for equivalent quality, not to mention the ageing and obsolescence of railway infrastructure. the liberalisation of rail transport that the european union is trying to impose on the member states is only intended to serve the financial interests of large private groups who see it as a source of profitability. let us protect our public enterprises, which are engaged in public service missions, from the savage competition of private companies whose only objective is to increase the remuneration of their shareholders. i therefore voted against this text and in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to improve the governance of railway infrastructure managers to ensure equal access for operators and aims to strengthen coordination within a member state, but also across borders, between infrastructure managers and railway operators to better meet market needs. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the directive establishing a single european railway area, as regards the opening of national markets to european rail freight and international passenger transport companies. while rail transport has so far developed at a much slower pace than other modes of transport, increased competition on the national market will make rail an alternative and accessible mode of transport. increasing the quality and quantity of services is an opportunity for both the rail industry and european travellers. national railway network operators will have to comply with new rules on transparency, impartiality and governance by 1 january 2019.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these transport reforms in europe. they propose a balanced compromise between the opening up of shared transport markets and spatial planning, in order to make the railway industry competitive while respecting local development and specificities and the social rights of workers. it is important to adapt to international competition while protecting our industries and territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the three reports in the railway package and, consequently, for the amendments calling for their withdrawal, in particular those tabled by the group enf, represented by marie-christine arnautu. these reports cover the following points: amending the directive establishing a single european railway area; opening up the market for national passenger services to competition; repealing the regulation on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway companies; opening up national passenger transport markets. these reports confirm the separation of the activities of the operator and the operator and extend the application of the competition principles to services which were previously exempt from them. we oppose this new reform, which is in line with the previous railway packages: their consequences in france have been catastrophic (a 20% drop in freight in five years).
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package, which we voted on wednesday 14 december, takes the form of three texts on common rules for the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and the establishment of a single european railway area. while i am in favour of harmonising railway technical regulations, i am nevertheless opposed to the introduction of governance of railway infrastructure which risks limiting the opening of the market for national services in this sector and strengthening the sustainability of national monopolies. that is why i decided to support the two 'technical' texts in this package, but i voted against the agreement reached on the text on the governance of the single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. the establishment of a european railway area is a real opportunity for the development of the passenger transport market. european manufacturers have been eagerly awaiting these texts, which will make it easier for them to sell their equipment in the european union. in the face of the power of our competitors, especially the chinese, european companies now have a clear framework for selling their products in europe. the agreement will also increase the quality and number of services offered and strengthen governance in infrastructure management.
in writing. ‒ since 2001, europe has been moving towards the creation of a single european railway area. in this context, the definition of the procedures for the award of public service contracts in rail passenger transport can have significant consequences for working conditions and social standards. however, by making the call for tenders for public service contracts the general rule, with only a few exceptions, this report has as its sole objective competition for the sake of competition and not the quality of services. i therefore voted against the latter because opening up to competition must not be at the expense of social rights and public services. i also regret that the amendment by the socialist and democratic group, which provided for the mandatory transfer of staff in the event of a change of operator so that the opening up to competition would not penalise workers, was rejected by the right.
in writing. ‒ this report, which aims to open up national passenger transport markets, also proposes to intensify competition and make the railway sector a level playing field for all companies. these measures have already proved their worth, with a reduction of one fifth of french rail freight over five years. finally, the fight against serious violations of binding collective agreements is not accompanied by effective sentences, as is shown by the case of sncf. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague david maria sassoli on the single european railway area. the single railway area was conceived with the aim of enhancing the safety and reliability of the european rail network. rail liberalisation is a good thing, provided it is aimed at improving efficiency and competitiveness, without introducing free and unbridled competition. our positions thus reflect the desire to strike a balance between improving competitiveness, consumer rights and safeguarding the social rights of staff. i also welcome the provisions that the opening cannot be at the expense of the least profitable lines, as the possibility of restricting access is retained in the event of a public service being put at risk.
in writing. ‒ the railway sector is a major challenge in europe, and particularly in france, from an economic and environmental point of view. i have therefore supported this report on the 'single european railway area' which is part of the fourth railway package, because it has a balanced and responsible vision. without going into a fanatical liberalism, this report promotes effective decisions to give new opportunities to the hauliers. these new measures make it possible to open up the passenger transport market, by providing sufficient guarantees that this will not be done at the expense of spatial planning. in the end, users will see the offer improve and the regions will have more freedom of choice in their providers. the time is not right for liberalization which would benefit our international competitors first and foremost and encourage social dumping. with this fourth railway package, we are making this sector more competitive, while respecting social rights.
in writing. ‒ this text takes up an old dream of the commission: the separation of sncf from its rail network. in the liberal logic, this separation should make it possible to facilitate the entry of competitors into the national networks. after disastrous attempts to implement this separation, the states opposed it. from the outset, this division of labour was seen to develop catastrophic trends: the french railway network was seeking to make up for the deficit it had inherited from sncf without making the necessary investments and maintenance; sncf is private-minded and favours investments in the most profitable sectors, the tgv, at the expense of the public service. the new text will create a veritable wall of china between the french rail network and sncf: everything will be separated from decision-making to personnel. it is all the sharing of information and knowledge, these synergies that make the wealth of public service that are set aside for the sole benefit of competition. the example of rer b shows that it is not just another logo that improves the service: it is public investment in public infrastructure. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments rejecting the report on the single european railway area. not only the enl group, but three other political groups tabled an amendment rejecting it. the official aim is to intensify competition to increase the supply and quality of services, to make the railway market equal to any company. the report points out that these measures have made rail freight a success: in france, it has fallen by 20% in five years! the railway package imposed by the eu is catastrophic.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this text, like the other two reports of the fourth railway package, concerns the 'market' component. although there is a positive point in the proposal not to renew the 'passenger transport licence' for companies convicted of serious breaches of binding collective agreements, which we approve, there are too many negative points. the aim of this text is to open up national passenger transport markets and intensify competition, and it defends the idea that these provisions would have made rail freight successful, even though it has fallen by 20% in the last five years!
in writing. ‒ this report dramatically emphasises the logic of european competition in rail transport activities. it lays down the principle of total openness and separation between network management activities and activities for the transport of passengers and goods. this logic has already shown its disastrous consequences for the staff, equipment and service. furthermore, states may restrict private companies' access to their network only if their public service contract is 'threatened'. so no state until the private sector has triggered disaster. and it is up to the european commission to set the rules on this. i am voting against this total destruction of the french acquis in the field of public rail services.
in writing. ‒ this report is a proposal to repeal the regulation on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules. that's why i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ the three reports which constitute the fourth part of the railway package are in line with the desired liberalisation of rail in all its aspects. french freight has already paid the price for such measures, it is obviously unthinkable to endorse such texts. the eu still refuses to understand that people want efficient and affordable public services and protection of their jobs. the time of permanent liberalism, which destroys the social fabric for the benefit of a few, must end. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to open up national passenger transport markets. the aim is to intensify competition to increase the supply and quality of services, to make the railway market equal to any company. the report points out that these measures have made rail freight a success: in france, it is -20% in 5 years! this 'governance' report aims at separating the activities of the operator and the manager by eliminating the double-caps of operator and manager (which would encourage conflicts of interest). the only positive aspect of this report is that companies already convicted of serious (what is the definition of 'serious') breaches of binding collective agreements cannot obtain a licence to carry out passenger transport by rail. it should be noted that sncf has been condemned several times for this reason... i am voting against this report, part of the disastrous railway package.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and the governance of railway infrastructure, which is part of the fourth railway package aimed at making european rail more competitive and safer. the text endorses the council's position at first reading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revision of the governance directive. after lengthy negotiations, i welcome the fact that the text incorporates the socialists' position to ensure that private competition does not jeopardise a public service. in concrete terms, the text states that the regulator may limit the right of access to a private operator if the arrival of this operator jeopardises the margins of the public service operator. this was essential to prevent private operators from competing with public service operators on profitable routes which could finance less profitable but essential connections for territorial cohesion. finally, the text does not call into question the integrated enterprise model which groups the historical manager and operator into the same group, as in france or germany.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the directive establishing a single european railway area. it is essential to open up the passenger transport market to encourage growth in railway activity and to create new jobs, while providing sufficient guarantees that this opening up will not be at the expense of the quality of services and spatial planning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revision of the governance directive. after lengthy negotiations, i welcome the fact that the text incorporates the socialists' position to ensure that private competition does not jeopardise a public service. in concrete terms, the text states that the regulator may limit the right of access to a private operator if the arrival of this operator jeopardises the margins of the public service operator. this was essential to prevent private operators from competing with public service operators on profitable routes which could finance less profitable but essential connections for territorial cohesion. finally, the text does not call into question the integrated enterprise model which groups the historical manager and operator into the same group, as in france or germany.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to intensify competition to increase the supply and quality of services, to make the rail market a level playing field for all companies. the report points out that these measures have made rail freight a success: in france it is -20% in 5 years! another objective is obviously to combat global warming... this 'governance' part of the railway package aims at separating the activities of the operator and the manager by eliminating the double operator-manager cap (which would encourage conflicts of interest). the only positive aspect of this report is that companies which have already been convicted of serious breaches of binding collective agreements cannot obtain a licence to carry out passenger transport by rail. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the social provisions governing the working conditions in ports were, for the most part, omitted from the commission's proposed regulation. theoretical precautions to combat precarious employment and to improve training and safety at work have been added. respect for national social standards has also been added, as has the obligation on states to safeguard the rights of employees in the event of a transfer of undertakings. the amendments made by the first sitting of the committee on transport and tourism and the trilogue are positive in principle (fewer activities concerned and less regulation in the activities concerned), but this is still not enough for fn-rbm meps to vote in favour, since once again the states are forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only multinationals, certainly not employees in the port and maritime sectors, nor european employees and consumers as a whole. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is important to make the ten-t more efficient and interconnected. this requires the creation of a framework to improve port performance in order to attract investment and to combat low competitive pressure and the risk of market abuse in the sector. provisions in the areas of concession contracts or state aid should be laid down for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ in principle, while the amendments resulting from the first meeting of the committee on transport and tourism and the trilogue are positive, they are still insufficient and i voted against this text as once again the states would be forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation would very likely be only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which would benefit only multinationals, certainly not employees in the port and maritime sectors, nor european employees and consumers as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal which falsely claims to improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the ten-t, compared to non-eu maritime ports, and fair competition between ten-t ports. the overall picture is insufficient, as the states will be forced to liberalize further. the european union's infrastructure policies are out of date. in the united states, donald trump seems to want to pursue an ambitious policy for these strategic elements. liberalisation benefits only transnational corporations, not states and peoples.
in writing. ‒ while i cannot oppose the financial transparency of ports, the introduction of competition within ports, even if it has been mitigated during his time in the committee on transport and tourism, will lead to a proliferation of private actors, which will undoubtedly be to the detriment of employees and to the benefit of multinationals, which i denounce. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to improve the competitiveness of the european union ports classified in the ten-t, the trans-european transport network through which 96% of goods and 93% of passengers pass. the proposal also aims to improve the functioning and interconnection of maritime ports, in particular by harmonising the rules in the european union. the text also calls for competition to be promoted within each port, while excluding services linked to the handling of goods covered by concession contracts. the liberalisation of the market for port services which the european union is trying to impose on the member states is only intended to serve the financial interests of large private groups which see it as a source of profitability. i voted against this text in order to preserve our jobs and to protect our companies from allegedly free and undistorted competition.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to increase transparency in financial relations between member states, ports and operators of port services, thus contributing to a better use of public funds. although a limited number of port services were opened up to competition, french interests were preserved by excluding the small ports system and services such as pilotage. whereas, despite the sensitive nature of the matter, access to the market for port services and financial transparency of ports will improve the operation and credibility of services; i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. with 1 200 ports, port activities directly contribute to job creation, foreign investment and gdp growth in european countries. in total, ports account for up to 3 million jobs, both direct and indirect, in the 22 member states concerned. however, the sector is characterised by low competitive pressure and risks of market abuse. in order to increase the efficiency of port services and to attract even more investment, the european union needs to put in place an appropriate regulatory framework. i therefore voted in favour of the regulation establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. by establishing a common framework for the organisation of port services, while preserving the principle of autonomous management of ports, this regulation achieves a fair balance which is conducive to the development of port activities in europe.
in writing. ‒ europe is one of the regions with the largest number of ports in the world. over 1 200 commercial seaports operate on the union's 70 000 km of coastline and employ 470 000 people. in 2012, these ports handled 3 739 million tonnes of goods transported by sea. the port sector is heterogeneous and characterized by a wide variety of types and multiple modes of organization. it is therefore necessary for the union to establish a general framework which, while respecting this diversity, makes it possible to strengthen the competitiveness of ports, to develop the maritime and port economy and employment, while ensuring that a high level of maritime safety is maintained.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the commission proposal aims to help improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the trans-european transport network compared to non-eu maritime ports. it also aims to improve the operation and interconnection of maritime ports by introducing harmonised european operating rules. the report also aims at liberalising services linked to port management: freight handling services and passenger services, which are covered by the concession directive, are excluded. the requirement to comply with the applicable national social and environmental standards is included in this text, but, in essence, we regret that more attention has not been paid to the issue of workers' rights in this sector.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will certainly not benefit workers in the port and maritime sector or european consumers as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which aims to improve the quality and efficiency of port services for users, reduce costs and encourage investment. this text introduces more transparency to ensure greater autonomy for our seaports and a better connection between maritime and rail transport. these new measures will make our ports in europe more competitive with their international competitors.
in writing. ‒ despite the positive aspects of the changes resulting from the first passage in the committee on transport and the trilogue, i am opposed to this ongoing effort for more liberalisation, of which this proposal for a regulation is only the first stone of a building that will benefit multinationals in particular. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague knut fleckenstein on market access for port services and financial transparency for ports. this report seeks to establish a clear framework for greater transparency while respecting the autonomy of ports and respecting local specificities. the port professions are thus largely preserved insofar as seaplane pilots and dockers are excluded from the reform and tugboaters and oarsmen can be protected by the national flag.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to implement a real port reform at european level. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules. the port professions are largely preserved, since seaplane pilots and dockers are excluded from the reform and tugboaters and oarsmen can be protected by the national flag, which guarantees social rights. the time is not right for liberalisation, which would benefit our international competitors first and foremost and encourage social dumping. with this port reform, we are making the sector more competitive, while respecting social rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on market access for port services and financial transparency of ports. the commission proposal aims to contribute to improving the competitiveness of eu ports in relation to non-eu maritime ports and fair competition between european ports. it also aims to improve the operation and interconnection of maritime ports by creating uniform european operating rules. however, once again, states are forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly just one more step towards a much wider liberalisation which will only benefit multinationals, certainly not employees in the port and maritime sectors, nor european employees and consumers as a whole.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this text is to improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the ten-t (319 largest ports) compared to non-eu maritime ports. it also wants to improve the functioning and interconnection of seaports and to attract investment, which we welcome. on the contrary, it forces member states to liberalize more (which, in addition to encroaching on our sovereignty, will only benefit multinationals). the social provisions governing the working conditions in ports have also been largely omitted from the commission's proposed regulation.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to increase the efficiency of port services. to this end, it encourages the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions to attract investment in ports. it aims in particular to increase the transparency of financial flows in order to avoid situations of unfair competition or dumping between union ports. the aim is therefore to allow the liberalisation of port services. the emphasis is certainly on the importance of training of personnel in order to protect the health and safety of port workers. and the text states that no emergency measures can be taken by the port administration to deal with industrial collective actions, that is, against the strikers. finally, if goods handling (dockers), passenger services and piloting are not yet covered by the opening up to competition, this should not be long in coming. i vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this proposal from the european commission aims to improve the competitiveness of european union ports, as well as their operation and interconnection, by creating new, standardised european rules. the proposals and amendments in this report are not sufficient. moreover, the states concerned are being forced to liberalize more and more, and the proposal for a regulation is only the first step towards a much wider liberalization of this sector, which will only benefit multinationals and not european employees and consumers. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to help improve the competitiveness of eu ports classified in the ten-t (trans-european transport network, i.e. europe's main road, rail and sea routes) compared to non-eu sea ports, and fair competition between ten-t ports. it also aims to improve the operation and interconnection of maritime ports by creating uniform european operating rules. the proposal also aims to attract investment in ports. finally, the commission intends to combat the lack of competition in each port and the alleged risks of abuse resulting from it. on principle, while the amendments resulting from the first passage in the committee on transport and tourism (tran) and the trilogue are positive (fewer activities concerned and less regulation in the activities concerned), this is still insufficient to be in favour of the report since once again, states are forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only multinationals, certainly not employees in the port and maritime sectors, nor european employees and consumers as a whole. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in principle, although the changes resulting from the first meeting of the committee on transport and the trilogue are positive (fewer activities concerned and less regulation in the activities concerned), this is still insufficient for me to express my support, since once again, the states are forced to liberalize more. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only multinationals, certainly not employees in the port and maritime sectors, nor european employees and consumers as a whole. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to improve the performance of ports. we call for greater financial transparency on the fees and funding that eu ports receive, with the obligation to clearly show in their accounting systems the public funding received. this will facilitate the european commission's work to identify a coherent public aid scheme and encourage investment. we also encourage port service providers to provide adequate training for employees, including on health and safety aspects, to meet the challenges of technological innovation and to ensure quality services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation establishing a framework for the organisation of port services. while the commission had proposed a liberal text, i am pleased that the council and the european parliament have reached agreement on a balanced text which no longer deals with the liberalisation of port services but with their organisation. in concrete terms, the text makes it clear that the port authorities are able to impose public service obligations, limit the number of service providers and impose minimum requirements to be met by service providers (compliance with social legislation, good reputation of the provider of port services). in this context, member states may in particular impose the obligation to fly the national flag for service providers. this is a real advance which i have always defended in order to protect workers from competition from the flags of complacency, which are less protective of social rights (rest time, working hours, affiliation to a social security organisation, etc.). finally, on workers' rights, the text states that port authorities may require the transfer of staff in the event of a change of provider. in this case, the staff will have to be re-employed under the same conditions as under the previous provider.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this final agreement between parliament and the council. i congratulate the rapporteur, my socialist colleague knut fleckenstein, for having succeeded in imposing the progressive red lines of the european parliament. minimum requirements will be imposed on port service providers. in this context, member states will be able to raise the level of requirements such as the national flag for towage and tow service providers. this is a move, supported by the unions, which avoids the threat of unbridled competition by providers operating under flags of complacency that undermine workers' rights. the possibility of limiting the number of port service providers for several reasons, such as the scarcity of sea area, the characteristics of port traffic and the environmental conditions of the port, also represents a new protection. the possibility of imposing public service obligations and staff transfers in the event of a change of provider, the possibility of using in-house operators, and the possibility of excluding handling and steering services from the liberalisation provisions are also victories. finally, the text provides for financial transparency obligations, which represent a substantial step forward.
in writing. ‒ once again, states are forced to liberalise their services. this proposal for a regulation is certainly only the first step towards a much wider liberalisation which will benefit only multinationals, certainly not employees in the port and maritime sectors, nor european employees and consumers as a whole. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ juhan parts is an experienced and probably competent man, but my policy has always been to abstain from such nominations except in two types of cases: either there is a proven conflict of interest or the candidate is an expert recognized for his impartiality and not a political figure. in any case, the final vote of the parliament does not necessarily have an impact on the appointment, since it is the will of the government of the candidate's country that prevails, in this case estonia.
in writing. ‒ this candidate for the post of member of the court of auditors comes from a rather conservative political figure opposed to russia's influence in his own country. it is, however, in favour of european integration. as this is a personal candidacy supported by his own government, i will make a reservation on this matter. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this vote was on the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the european court of auditors. a graduate of the university of tartu with a law degree, juhan parts was the auditor general of estonia from 1998 to 2002 and then prime minister from 2003 to 2005. in a hearing with mr parts in the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, the former prime minister answered questions from meps and fulfilled the requirements of the post of member of the court of auditors. i have voted in favour of this appointment, as the members of the committee on budgetary control have given a favourable opinion.
in writing. ‒ abstention: it should be noted that the final vote of parliament does not necessarily determine the appointment of the member of the court of auditors. if parliament rejects a candidate, the latter can still be appointed if the government of his country maintains the appointment.
in writing. ‒ i have no reason to oppose, after having been informed of his background, the nomination of juhan parts to the court of auditors. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bart staes on the appointment of mr juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. the text approves the nomination proposed by the council after hearing the committee on budgetary control, certifying the qualifications required to perform this function. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the proposed candidate for the court of auditors, estonian juhan parts, was his country's (centre-right) prime minister. an enthusiastic supporter of privatisation, he was in charge of the dismantling of state-owned enterprises from 1993 to 1996. finally, her appointment would only reinforce the problem of parity within the court of auditors, with only three women out of 28 members. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is hereby required to deliver an opinion on the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. this former estonian prime minister and minister for economic affairs and telecommunications is from the epp. i abstained on this nomination, in line with my previous votes, except where a conflict of interest is demonstrated or where it is a purely technical nomination due to the candidate's expertise.
in writing. ‒ traditional abstention on this type of appointment, reserved as usual for an establishment politician. mr juhan parts is an estonian politician and currently a member of the estonian parliament. he was prime minister from 2003 to 2005 and minister of economy and telecommunications from 2007 to 2014.
in writing. ‒ abstention on this appointment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors. his competence was assessed by the committee on budgetary control, which also heard him before giving a favourable opinion. i followed that advice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the former estonian prime minister, juhan parts, as the new member of the court of auditors. this appointment was confirmed by a large majority of the committee on budgetary control, after he had been heard.
in writing. ‒ the treaty of paris was signed on 18 april 1951 and established the european coal and steel community (ecsc). it entered into force on 23 july 1952 and was to last for 50 years, expiring on 23 july 2002. the remaining assets of the former ecsc were then transferred to a new research fund for coal and steel (frca) which provides approximately €50 million in research and development funding each year for the coal (27.2%) and steel (72.8%) sectors. while the european steel industry is in a particularly critical situation, the european commission's text considers that 'the frca has achieved its objective of supporting competitiveness'. under the pretext of 'facilitating access to funding for beneficiaries' (simplification, transparency, harmonisation), the text is of course aimed above all at giving the ec full powers so that it can finally 'manage the frca programme alone'. for this reason i voted against the commission proposal and abstained on parliament's motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report because i am in favour of continuing research in the fields of coal and steel. these two areas are of strategic and historic importance for the european union, which was originally built on them. in fact, i am in favour of the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel, which will facilitate access to funding, and the proportional harmonisation of the rules with the general research programme horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal because, while it is intended to 'facilitate access to funding for the beneficiaries' of the frca grants (simplification, transparency, harmonisation), its main aim is to give the commission full powers so that it can 'manage the programme itself'. in other words, this text would give ever more responsibility to unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology (alliance of financial ultra-liberalism and ecological ayatollahs), failed to protect our coal and steel industries, and this while china was automatically granted the precious "market economy status" on 11 december 2016, in accordance with article 15 of the protocols of its admission to the wto 15 years earlier. i have, however, abstained on the more measured motion for a resolution, because france must protect its metal industry, and therefore steel, but let us not forget that it is mainly germany and poland who have an interest in defending coal, not us.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2008/376/ec on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines for that programme. under the guise of 'facilitating access to funding for the beneficiaries' of the research fund for coal and steel (frca), the text will give full powers to the european commission, which will be solely responsible for managing the frca programme. we must not give more power to the illegitimate eurocracy that sold off our coal and steel industries... while china was automatically granted the precious "market economy status" on 11 december 2016, in accordance with article 15 of the protocols of its accession to the wto on 11 december 2001... the european union is a political and economic powerlessness.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to give the commission full powers to manage the frca programme on its own and to introduce ever more liberalism and ever more ecological constraints. so far, these technocratic policies have failed to protect our coal and steel industries, while at the same time china has been granted market economy status in the wto, further weakening them. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the coal and steel research fund is financing €50 million of research and development programmes in the coal (27.2%) and steel (72.8%) sectors. the legal basis laying down the rules for the management and operation of the fund was adopted by the council in 2003 and provides for a systematic periodic review. this report uses transparency and simplification for the benefit of beneficiaries as pretexts for transferring more powers to the european commission in managing the fund. these same brussels technocrats have failed to protect our steel industry, which is currently in serious difficulties because of unfair competition from china, difficulties which are likely to reach their peak with the granting of market economy status to the middle kingdom. it is high time to protect our industries from all the winds of unbridled globalisation, including through smart protectionism and economic patriotism. i did not vote on this text, which maintains the budget for a fund for research and development in the steel and coal sectors.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report proposes to amend the rules of the research programme for the coal and steel sectors. in particular, the report proposes to facilitate access to funding for beneficiaries through simplified rules and to increase transparency in the management of funds. considering that coal and steel remain strategically important sectors for european industry, for which the development of new technologies through research and innovation is a real lever for competitiveness in europe, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. in this way, we are making the management of the fund clearer and easier to access. each year, the research fund for steel and coal provides around €50 million to stimulate innovation in these two sectors. with this report, we are simplifying the rules for access to finance so that smes can benefit more from this fund. we are also imposing additional guarantees on the transparency of the choices of experts appointed to this fund by aligning the standards with those required for experts at the european commission.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the treaty of paris, which entered into force on 23 july 1952 and was to last for 50 years, expired on 23 july 2002. the remaining assets of the former ecsc were then transferred to a new research fund for coal and steel (frca), in favour of r&d on coal and steel (€50 million available annually). taken over by the commission on new legal bases defined in 2003, the frca is to be periodically reviewed. at a time when the european steel industry is facing a critical situation, in particular chinese competition, it is ironic to read that the frca has 'achieved its objective of supporting competitiveness'. we cannot approve this text, which also gives the european union greater powers to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. ‒ vote against: under the pretext of 'facilitating access to funding for beneficiaries', the main aim of the text is to give the ec full powers for direct management of the frca programme. in other words, more and more power has not been enough to protect our coal and steel industries... while china was automatically granted the precious "market economy status" on 11 december 2016.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to simplify the application procedure rules for the research fund for coal and steel by bringing them closer to those of horizon 2020. this will encourage research and support smes in these sectors, which are hard hit by international competition. i therefore voted in favour of this text in order to be able to update, in good agreement with horizon 2020, research and development in two historical sectors which were at the origin of the european construction and which now need to be modernised.
in writing. ‒ since the horizon 2020 framework programme, the commission has taken over the management of the research fund for coal and steel and is managing it itself, in the interests of harmonisation and simplification. it also considered that the fund had fulfilled its competitiveness objectives at a time when the steel industry was in a critical situation. i condemn this increasing transfer of responsibility to technocrats who are responsible for the stagnation of our coal and steel industries. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jerzy buzek on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. this programme grants financial aid to projects or actions promoting coal and steel research and development programmes. the text is amended to make it easier for smes to access funding and to increase the transparency of the programme. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel. while the european steel industry is in a particularly critical situation, the commission's text considers that 'the frca has achieved its objective of supporting competitiveness'. under the pretext of 'facilitating access to funding for beneficiaries', the text is of course aimed above all at giving the european commission full powers so that it can 'manage the frca programme alone'. in other words, more and more responsibility for the unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology, failed to protect our coal and steel industries... while china will be granted automatically on 11.12.2016 the precious "market economy status" in accordance with article 15 of the protocols of its admission to the wto on 11.12.2001. this is further confirmation that, far from allowing the emergence of any europe-power, the eu has organised the collective impotence of the nations of europe.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this text concerns the research fund for coal and steel (frca), which took over the remaining assets of the former european coal and steel community (ecsc). the management is provided for in a 2002 text, revised in 2008, and provides in particular for a periodic and systematic reassessment of the programme's relevance. however, while the european steel industry is in a particularly critical situation, the commission's text considers that 'the frca has achieved its objective of supporting competitiveness', which is why we cannot support this text.
in writing. ‒ the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was concluded in 1951. at the expiry of the treaty in 2002, it was agreed to use the ecsc assets (and the interest thereon) to set up a research fund for coal and steel (frca). the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and workplace safety in the sectors concerned. the proposal before us aims to facilitate access to finance by simplifying the rules. it also ensures greater transparency between the expert groups and the actors concerned. the rapporteur also calls for the social partners to be consulted on issues of social responsibility. i am voting for this text, although i regret that environmental aspects are not given more prominence.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2008/376/ec adopting the programme of the research fund for coal and steel and the multiannual technical guidelines. the european steel industry is already in a dramatic situation, but the main aim of this text is to give the european commission full powers to manage the programme on its own and to promote competitiveness. the management of this programme by ideological technocrats who have failed to protect the coal and steel sectors in any way risks, especially with china, which obtained market economy status on 11 december 2016, putting its sectors of activity and research at risk even more. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ while the european steel industry is in a particularly critical situation, the ec text considers that 'the frca has achieved its objective of supporting competitiveness'. under the pretext of 'facilitating access to funding for beneficiaries' (simplification, transparency, harmonisation), the text is of course aimed above all at giving the commission full powers so that it can finally manage the fund programme on its own. in other words, more and more responsibility for the unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology (alliance of financial ultra-liberalism and ecology), failed to protect our coal and steel industries... while china will one day be granted the precious "market economy status" in accordance with article 15 of the protocols of its admission to the wto on 11 december 2001. this is further confirmation that, far from allowing the emergence of any europe-power, the eu has organised the collective impotence of the nations of europe. vote against it.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of facilitating access to funding for beneficiaries (simplification, transparency, harmonisation), this text aims above all to give the ec full powers so that it can finally manage the frca programme alone. in other words, more and more responsibility for the unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology (alliance of financial ultra-liberalism and ecological ayatollahs), failed to protect our coal and steel industries... while china will automatically be granted, on 11 december 2016, the precious "market economy status", in accordance with article 15 of the protocols of its admission to the wto on 11 december 2001. this is further confirmation that, far from allowing the emergence of any europe-power, the european union has organised the collective impotence of the nations of europe. i should like to abstain on this text, since it does not address the real problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the research fund for coal and steel. this fund was set up after the expiry of the ecsc treaty. it is managed by the commission separately and in addition to horizon 2020, and is financed from the former assets of the ecsc. it supports r & d in coal (27.2%) and steel (72.8%) with €50 million each year. the aim was to amend its legal basis in order to facilitate access to its financing, in particular for smes, and to increase its transparency.
in writing. ‒ the research fund for coal and steel was set up after the ecsc treaty expired. it is managed by the commission separately and in addition to horizon 2020, and is financed from the former assets of the ecsc. it supports coal and steel research, development and innovation every year. i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the amendment of the legal basis of the fund in order to facilitate access to its financing for smes and to increase its transparency. it is essential to encourage research and development to improve the competitiveness of european smes in the coal and steel industry, which is particularly affected by foreign competition.
in writing. ‒ the treaty of paris establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc) was signed on 18 april 1951. it expired on 23 july 2002. the remaining assets of the former ecsc were then transferred to a new research fund for coal and steel (frca). while the european steel industry is in a particularly critical situation, the ec text considers that 'the frca has achieved its objective of supporting competitiveness'. under the pretext of 'facilitating access to funding for beneficiaries', the text is of course aimed above all at giving the european commission full powers so that it can 'manage the frca programme alone'. in other words, it is a matter of giving ever more responsibility to unelected bureaucrats who, by ideology (an alliance of ultra-liberal finance and ecological ayatollahs), have failed to protect our coal and steel industries from extra-community competition. however, certain provisions on investment in these sectors have motivated my decision to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this is the annual report on human rights, a review of eu action in this field. the text aims to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using human rights as a lever to impinge on the action of states. it also assumes a willingness to intervene in the affairs of third states in the name of the defence of humanitarian workers. in line with the other human rights reports, i have of course opposed this humanist and politically correct text on human rights.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to endorse this report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. i am concerned that the promotion and protection of human rights are threatened by totalitarian regimes and terrorist groups in some parts of the world. it is more necessary than ever to recall that the european union focuses its external policy on promoting democracy and the rule of law. i would also add that if the union is to be a credible actor in this area, it must ensure greater coherence between its internal and external policies.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using human rights as a pretext to influence state action. it also assumes a willingness to intervene in the affairs of third states in the name of defending humanitarian associations. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the 2015 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter and takes stock of eu action in this field. the report actually seeks to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using human rights as a lever to impinge on the action of states (paragraphs 19 to 25). it also clearly wishes to interfere in the affairs of third states in the name of defending humanitarian workers. i therefore voted against the report for these simple reasons.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on human rights is just another opportunity to give the eu more power in international affairs, which i condemn. it even goes so far as to suggest a willingness to intervene in third states in the name of defending human rights, which is a farce. for these reasons i shall vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this annual report looks at the state of human rights and democracy in the world and the record of the european union's work in this field. the text uses the current regression of fundamental rights in many states as a pretext to strengthen the diplomatic role of the european union, when it has no legitimacy to intervene in this area of competence. we also believe that the european union and its member states should not interfere in the internal affairs of third countries in order to impose their vision of democracy. finally, it is surprising to see the european union concerned about the respect of human rights in third countries while it imposes free trade agreements and illegal migrant quotas on the peoples of europe, which they strongly oppose. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report highlights attempts to reduce the space for civil society, to restrict freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, and expresses concern about the persistence of violence and persecution, intolerance and discrimination against religious minorities around the world. the report calls for the strengthening of interreligious dialogue and the protection of minorities, particularly in the middle east, where the yazidi, christian and muslim minorities are persecuted by the islamic state group and other terrorist groups. considering that human rights are fundamental values of the union, i supported this report which denounces these shortcomings.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which makes recommendations in the light of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy for 2015. this report reports on the situation of respect for human rights in the third countries of the european union. some of its recommendations must be rapidly implemented to combat the lack of respect for fundamental rights. for example, the commission should carry out a thorough assessment of the implementation of the human rights guidelines by eu delegations and member states' diplomatic representations in all third countries. moreover, as we face an unprecedented migration crisis, the fight against trafficking in human beings must be one of the european union's external policy priorities.
in writing. - i voted against this text. this is the annual report on human rights, which takes stock of eu action in this field. the report intends to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using human rights, which is indicative of a willingness to interfere in the affairs of third countries.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report aims to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using the pretext of human rights as a lever. the report also assumes a desire to interfere in the affairs of third countries.
in writing. ‒ the report on human rights and democracy in the world is, like the nagy report voted on yesterday, an imposed exercise by this parliament. this year, it is also an opportunity to add to the situation in the european union with regard to migrants, roma, lgbti people, prisons, etc. it is strange that the european democracies should be lumped in the same generalist basket as zimbabwe, saudi arabia, china or the islamic state group. the aim of this report, besides the litany of good feelings, is above all to give meaning, purpose and even a semblance of existence to a common external action of the european union at the expense of national diplomacies. but even this minimal basis, which is supposed to be consensual, is not credible. the number, nature and extent of sanctions, when they exist, are paltry in the face of the alleged violations and the intensity of your outrages. the list of countries covered is oddly lacking. and the inconsistent results. the diplomacy of influence, the famous 'soft power', which won the nobel peace prize for the european union, is a model that has never really worked.
in writing. ‒ by masquerading as a defender of human rights, the european union is above all seeking to strengthen its diplomatic clout and its capacity for interference at the expense of the sovereignty of states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr josef weidenholzer, on human rights and democracy in the world. the report calls on the member states to act as defenders of human rights in their relations with other states and with their citizens. it also stresses the urgency of protecting religious minorities persecuted by the islamic state group, including eastern christians.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. in fact, this report, as every year, aims to strengthen the diplomatic role of the european union by using human rights as a lever to impinge on the action of states. the report also assumes a willingness to intervene in the affairs of third countries in the name of defending humanitarian ideas.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the text is an annual report on human rights and aims to strengthen the diplomatic role of the european union. under the guise of a better defence of human rights, it wishes to interfere with the action of states (paragraphs 19 to 25) or to interfere in the affairs of third countries (paragraphs 42 to 48), which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ this year's general report on human rights in the world contains support for some of the usual taboo points. he advocated a universal moratorium on the death penalty, but stressed that the united states still practised it. he's calling for the guantanamo bay detention facility to be closed. but it also persists in the dead end of a european army outside any democratic control. it called for a stronger european military integration to deal with threats and to respond to serious human rights violations, genocide and ethnic cleansing. this logic of a world police force for human rights would only make sense within the un framework, with respect for the sovereignty of states. finally, the report includes a list of prisoners of conscience who are not allowed to be amended. russia, china, they're still in a good position. but there is never any mention of american prisoners, like mumia abu jamal, a journalist and political activist who has been behind bars for over 30 years. i vote against, not to support these variable geometry convictions.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on human rights and the european union's action in this field is in fact a reinforcement of the union's diplomatic role under the pretext of human rights to interfere in the actions of states. moreover, this interference with the sovereignty of states is entirely assumed in the name of the defence of humanitarian interests. i objected to this report.
in writing. ‒ we vote against this report which seeks to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using human rights as a lever to impinge on the action of states. the report also assumes a willingness to intervene in the affairs of third countries in the name of the defence of humanitarian workers, a willingness which is already present in many other reports.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using human rights as a lever to impinge on the action of states (points 19 to 25). the report also assumes a willingness to intervene in the affairs of third states in the name of the defence of humanitarian workers (paragraphs 42 to 28). i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the european parliament votes on a report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. this 2015 report contained several hostile terms towards russia, which remains an ally of the european union. that is why i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the situation of human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. we are particularly concerned about the increase in acts of violence, persecution, intolerance and discrimination against all minorities and the persistence of armed conflicts in the world. europe is a symbol of humanity and must remain a model. this is why the policy of supporting human rights and democracy must be at the heart of all the union's external policies, such as development, migration, security, the fight against terrorism, neighbourhood policy, enlargement or trade, through the establishment of human rights requirements. we are more committed than ever to promoting human rights in the world and are very proud to have awarded this year's sakharov prize for freedom of thought to nadia mourad bassi taha and lamiya aji bachar, two young yazidi women who escaped the barbarism of the islamic state group.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 report on human rights and democracy in the world rightly highlights the increase in violence and discrimination against women and girls in recent years. it also highlights the violence, prosecution and discrimination faced by lgbti people in many parts of the world. the report recommends a number of measures in the light of this worrying finding. as regards women, the report suggests that measures against gender-based violence in the digital environment should be extended. it also encourages the member states, the commission and the eeas to promote the economic and political empowerment of women in developing countries. the report recommends that the eu institutions and member states contribute more to the debate on the recognition of same-sex marriage as a political and social issue linked to civil and human rights. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role by using human rights as a lever to pressure states to act. the report also assumes a willingness to intervene in the affairs of third states in the name of defending humanitarian workers. this text is in line with the other reports on human rights.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the common foreign and security policy at the expense of the states by taking advantage of brexit and the withdrawal of england, the main opponent of the project. this text is in itself a major attack on national sovereignty. the provisions of the treaty were not innovative: a single foreign policy, increased state budgetary contributions, unification of defence enterprises (under german domination). so i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i share the view that the european union has brought peace and prosperity to many countries that have subsequently become members. i also believe that the current crisis, both internal and external, should be an opportunity for the union to pursue more ambitious external policies in line with other european policies. as such, it is more than imperative to take responsibility for our security at european level, to invest in a comprehensive approach and to strengthen european diplomacy. from a strictly budgetary point of view, i can only regret that the slim budget of around €320 million was under-executed by €96 million in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which aims to strengthen the common foreign and security policy at the expense of the member states, taking advantage of brexit and the withdrawal of england, the main opponent of the project. the text itself would be a blow to national sovereignty. moreover, its provisions are nothing new: a single foreign policy, an increase in the budgetary contribution of the states, the unification of defence enterprises under german domination, etc.
in writing. ‒ this report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 of the eu treaty) is intended to strengthen the cfsp at the expense of the states, taking advantage in particular of brexit and the withdrawal of the united kingdom. this text is itself a major attack on the sovereignty of the states and its provisions are nothing new: a single foreign policy, an increase in the budgetary contribution of the states, unification of the defense companies (under german domination). so naturally i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to take advantage of the uk's withdrawal following brexit to provide an additional cornerstone for the transfer of sovereignty from the member states to the eu in matters of foreign and defence policy. this is unacceptable to me. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report uses the current geopolitical instability as a pretext to propose strengthening the common foreign and security policy. the text calls for the adoption of a single foreign policy, an increase in the financial contribution of the member states and the unification of defence companies. we are firmly opposed to any common foreign and security policy. on the one hand, the european union has no diplomatic legitimacy and credibility. the european management of the conflicts in syria and libya and the strained relations with russia are proof of this. secondly, this report seriously undermines the sovereignty of the member states, since foreign policy is a matter for their exclusive competence. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the state of play of the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. it is a good report, which calls for more resources and synergy in defence and increased defence cooperation with the united kingdom. it also welcomed the launch of the new european border and coast guard agency and called for a strengthened partnership with the countries of the south in managing migration flows. however, i voted against some of the paragraphs on russia. i believe that russia is an indispensable partner on the international stage. so we must maintain the necessary dialogue. moreover, i do not believe in the effectiveness of sanctions against russia. on the contrary, we see that russia's reaction to the food embargo on certain european products continues to have very negative effects on the european economy and particularly on our farmers.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report analyses the current state and challenges of international affairs and stresses the need to deploy foreign policy aspects in a coherent manner to safeguard the union's interests and values in the world. the report recognises the multiple challenges facing the union in the external field, such as terrorism, cybersecurity, the fight against trafficking in human beings and radicalisation. considering that the deepening of the implementation of the common foreign and security policy should make it possible to strengthen the union's role on the international scene in conflict management and the promotion of peace and stability, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. we must take our security seriously and invest more in our defence, which has too limited a budget. however, nato remains a major player in our collective security. it's time for real action. i therefore call for the effective implementation of the eu global strategy presented by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, in june 2016. in addition, we need to build resilience and address the root causes of instability and irregular and forced migration, such as armed conflict, poverty or climate change.
in writing. security is a concern for many european citizens. 66% of europeans want europe to do more on defence and security, according to a poll by the european parliament. in france, 72% of respondents are in favour of increased action by the european union. it is time for the union to acquire its own resources so that it can guarantee stronger defence and security within it. member states should cooperate more systematically by promoting the pooling and sharing of military capabilities.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of the text is to strengthen the single foreign policy in the wake of brexit: increase in the budgetary contribution of the states, unification of defence companies (under german domination), etc. this text is contrary to the sovereignty of states and we cannot support it.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this text is in itself a major attack on national sovereignty. its provisions are nothing new: a single foreign policy, an increase in the budgetary contribution of the states, unification of defence enterprises.
in writing. ‒ in many cases, and this is not an exception, such reports have the sole objective of undermining national sovereignty by a combination of harmonising and unitary proposals. here, the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union seems to strengthen the common foreign and security policy. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elmar brok on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. this report is an opportunity for the european parliament to highlight european priorities in the field of security and foreign policy. ethno-religious conflicts in the middle east and north africa have consequences for the security of european citizens. the text therefore calls on the high representative to develop an implementation plan for the eu's comprehensive strategy based on defence, diplomacy and development.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. the aim is to strengthen the common foreign and security policy at the expense of the states, taking advantage of brexit and the withdrawal of england, the main opponent of the project. this text is in itself a major attack on national sovereignty. the provisions of the treaty are nothing new: a single foreign policy, an increase in the budgetary contribution of the states, the unification of defence undertakings (under german domination).
in writing. - i voted against this text. the report aims to strengthen the common foreign and security policy by taking advantage of the fact that the united kingdom, which has always opposed it, is considering leaving the european union. we do not accept that the role of the member states should be further reduced in favour of the community institutions. this report is therefore a major attack on the national sovereignty of france and the other european states.
‒ for several months now, this parliament has been working to promote a european army. the european project is out of breath. they believe that the fight against terrorism can restart the machine and override its contempt for the people. and for that, we'd have to sell the tools of our french diplomacy and defense to brussels. to promote peace? no, to strengthen the alliance with nato. because the un has limits. the european parliament is making its recommendations here ahead of the next european council on thursday. he warned that more than a european command centre was needed. we need a common defence market and binding regulations for the states. those who contribute will be able to obtain a leniency on the golden rules of the european semester. commercial policy must serve these interests. regardless of trump's election, the aecg and the itcp must allow for deeper relations with these countries. everyone, including the greens, has embarked on this hysterical and bellicose race. some are attracted by the endless communitarianism, others by their mad race to tension with russia. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this text aims to strengthen the eu's common foreign and security policy, to the detriment of the sovereignty of the member states. the european union is taking advantage of brexit for this implementation since england was the main opponent. the text provides for a single foreign policy, an increase in the contribution of the states and a unification of defence. i therefore vote against this text as it is a major attack on the sovereignty of nations.
in writing. ‒ the provisions of this text are nothing new compared to what the european parliament is used to calling for in the field of common foreign and security policy: a single foreign policy, an increase in the budgetary contribution of the member states, and unification of defence companies, currently under german domination. with brexit, and therefore the future withdrawal of the united kingdom, the main opponent of this project, the european institutions are taking advantage of this to try to strengthen it at the expense of national sovereignty. we are of course opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ this text is in itself a major attack on national sovereignty. the provisions of the treaty were not innovative: a single foreign policy, an increase in the budgetary contribution of the states, the unification of defence enterprises (under german domination). i am, of course, voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). the text sets out the priorities for addressing the challenges facing europe through the european union's external action. these include defence and security of the continent, development and diplomacy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. surrounded by an arc of instability ranging from aggressive russia to proxy wars in the middle east and north africa, 70% of europeans think there should be more europe in foreign and security policy. it is with these elements in mind that i have supported this resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. as the balance of power has once again come to dominate international relations, we have thus reiterated that military defence capabilities are essential to influence diplomatic negotiations. we have therefore called for increased defence spending, common funds for eu missions and measures to improve the use of eu rapid reaction forces (tactical groups) and the common procurement of defence equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the foreign policy of the european union. i am in favour of a strong and united europe on foreign and security policy. european citizens are suffering the consequences of external conflicts, and it is our duty to protect them! the eu's external action must therefore be based on three pillars: diplomacy, development and defence. our defence and deterrence capabilities must be increased if the eu is to have a say in diplomatic talks. we must also be less conciliatory towards neighbouring countries which go against our democratic principles and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses that diplomacy, development and defence should be the pillars of the european union's foreign policy. in order to achieve our foreign policy objectives, the european union must appear united and speak with one voice; in this respect, it is important that member states show unity and trust. the current international conflicts have serious consequences for the security and well-being of european citizens. european cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy could thus bring greater added value. in this report we also call for increased defence spending and for increased common funds for eu missions. finally, it is important that the european union is active and develops its cooperation on cybersecurity, migration, strategic communication and responses to hybrid threats.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to strengthen the common foreign and security policy at the expense of the states by taking advantage of the withdrawal of england, the main opponent of the project. this text is in itself an attack on national sovereignty. the provisions of the treaty are not innovative: a single foreign policy, an increase in the budgetary contribution of the states, the unification of defence enterprises (under german domination). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ a european army in the making via a european defence strategy and action plan: this is the response to brexit to 'reassure' the european peoples, as proposed by the french government in particular. the fears are fuelled by the usual appeals to the necessary fight against insecurity and terrorism to justify an increase in military spending, to strengthen common research and the european defence market. the 'europe of peace' is preparing to accompany its most belligerent states in their militaristic follies. and we're going to get even closer to nato as a bonus. on the contrary, we attack the un and its limits, which are certainly real, but whose fault is it? it is rather to this direction that we should turn before it is too late, so that the un can regain its original ambitions and the decisions taken, particularly by its general assembly, can no longer be blocked by the so-called great powers, whatever they may be. it is peace that we need and men and women who fight for it. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report has been the subject of many debates and amendments since its preparation. as some members have pointed out, mrs delahaye's report contains a basic short-term error: it is intended to combat price volatility on agricultural markets, whereas these prices are no longer volatile but desperately low, and have been for the past two years. the current issue is therefore rather the stagnation of low prices. this own-initiative report is difficult to understand. the analysis of the causes of volatility and the difficulties faced by agriculture is fragmented and poorly hierarchised. in the absence of a coherent framework (mrs delahaye has constantly warned meps against this risk, without changing anything herself), this text is a catch-all, in which common sense measures (notably public interventionism on markets, or improving contractualisation) coexist with others, much more dangerous, which reinforce the financialization of agriculture or the administrative weight of the cap. that is why i voted against this text with my colleagues from the national front.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposals contained in this text. anxiety and despair are unfortunately the dominant feelings in the farming world today. the obsession with less has led to the abolition of quotas, which now forces our milk and meat producers to sell at a loss. the need for protection tools to prevent and resolve crises is more urgent than ever. it was indeed appropriate to set up european mechanisms to balance supply and demand and to involve producer associations and pdos in setting the volumes delivered according to the price level. it is time for europe to reconcile producers and consumers.
in writing. ‒ mrs delahaye's report is based on a gross error: it aims to combat price volatility on agricultural markets, whereas these prices are no longer volatile but desperately low, and have been for the past two years. the current problem is therefore rather the stagnation of prices at a low level. the result is a great deal of inconsistency, with several incompatible projects: supply regulation, the introduction of countercyclical aid, mutual funds or the use of insurance on prices - as the americans do. this is a catch-all text, with good ideas and others much worse, which would for example increase the financialization of agriculture or the administrative burden of the cap, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report on the cap's tools to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets aims to combat price volatility on agricultural markets, which have been desperately low for two years. the current issue is therefore rather the stagnation of low prices. on the other hand, the tools proposed here are only too partial or overestimated. indeed, improvements in price monitoring and contracting are illusory if we do not reform the competition law that penalizes our producers. in addition, the mixed addition of supply regulation projects, the establishment of countercyclical aid, mutual funds or the use of price insurance (cf. usa) is not consistent. the framework is not coherent and this text is more like a catch-all in which common sense measures (notably public interventionism on the markets) but other more dangerous ones (financialisation of agriculture, administrative burden of the cap, etc.) coexist. so i voted against it to protect our farmers.
in writing. ‒ this report, which aims to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets, contains a fundamental cyclical error. the difficulties faced by farms are mainly the result of the stagnation of commodity prices at extremely low levels and not the volatility of these values. beyond this error, the text proposes measures that deserve to be studied, such as the introduction of counter-cyclical aid and mutualisation funds or the improvement of contractualisation. on the other hand, this report will help to strengthen the financialisation of agriculture and the administrative weight of the common agricultural policy. the viability and sustainability of our operations depends mainly on the immediate cessation of any new tariff concessions granted under the free trade agreement and the lifting of the russian embargo. in the absence of such a common sense policy, any other subject will be superficial. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report by my colleague angélique delahaye provides a basis for reflection on the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). this report proposes a series of tools to combat price volatility in agricultural markets effectively. the report proposes to strengthen contractual arrangements between the various actors in the food chain, to shift the cap towards a policy of supporting farmers through an insurance system in the event of price volatility and to create price observatories to make markets more transparent. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to identify the tools of the cap to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. this report by my colleague angélique delahaye has been the subject of a lot of work in the committee on agriculture to propose ideas to protect farmers from the harmful effects of the very high price volatility observed since 2007-2008 on the world and european markets. the rapporteur makes interesting proposals on market transparency, contractual arrangements and risk management. it also rightly points out that tools exist in the current cap, in particular in the regulation establishing a common organisation of the market, but are too little used. i have particularly worked to ensure that the issue of crisis prevention and management is also raised, as this is a central issue. i think that this report is an excellent basis for improving the present cap and preparing the next one, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague angélique delahaye on the tools of the common agricultural policy (cap) to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. the present situation of sharp fluctuations in the prices of agricultural products is untenable. it penalizes producers, depriving them of stable incomes, and reduces consumer choice. if we want european agriculture, we must come up with solutions to enable our farmers to carry on their business without the daily fear of bankruptcy. this is precisely the subject of this report, which proposes solutions to re-establish contractual relations between farmers and the retail sector, as well as new tools to better manage and anticipate risks and crises on agricultural markets.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that my report was adopted by a large majority of meps. the work on this report was first of all an opportunity to take stock of the current situation and to focus on the concrete and urgent needs of european farmers. this review has enabled us to formulate measured and realistic proposals to improve european agriculture, through a series of tools that can help to combat price volatility: strengthening contractual arrangements between the various actors in the food chain, putting in place insurance systems to support farmers, and introducing greater market transparency through the creation of price observatories. the adoption of this report has several very positive consequences. firstly, all the work done will be useful for future reflections on the 2020 cap reform. but this vote in favour is also a strong sign of the european parliament's commitment to agricultural issues and its involvement with the commission on these sensitive issues. finally, this adoption coincides with a planetary alignment. the commission and the committee of the regions have just adopted texts with similar colours.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of this report is to combat price volatility on agricultural markets. the report has three objectives: 1. the introduction of tools which are supposed to limit volatility, whereas in our view it would be better to limit unbridled competition in this sector; 2. the reform of crisis management mechanisms; 3. reforms of the method of allocating aid under the first pillar. these various solutions contradict each other without addressing the underlying problems. in addition, some measures are designed to increase the financialisation of agriculture and the administrative burden of the cap.
in writing. ‒ vote against: in the absence of a coherent framework, this text is a catch-all, in which common sense measures coexist with other, much more dangerous, measures that reinforce the financialisation of agriculture or the administrative weight of the cap.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report by my colleague, mrs angélique delahaye, on the cap's tools for reducing price volatility on agricultural markets. this is a strong signal to farmers who have been experiencing an extremely serious crisis for more than a year, leading many of them to sell their farms or, worse, to end their lives. this report is the result of a year's reflection on the need to propose an agricultural policy that reflects the reality of agriculture in the member states and offers a future for this profession, which is now in dire straits, but which is a pillar of our economy and essential to our food sovereignty. the report proposes practical tools to help preserve european agriculture and make it competitive in a world where competition is often unfair and fierce: strengthening contractual arrangements between the various actors in the food chain, shifting the cap towards a policy of supporting farmers through insurance systems to guarantee income against price volatility and creating price observatories for more transparent markets.
in writing. ‒ this report tackles price volatility on agricultural markets, whereas it should focus on price stagnation at very low levels and the multiple crisis facing agriculture. the rapporteur's intentions, which are apparently positive, but actually positive for some, for example on public intervention in the markets, are lost in dubious meanders and contradictions, which is why there is an inconsistency which prevents me from supporting them. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs angélique delahaye, on price volatility in agricultural markets. the measures proposed to combat price instability and volatility are based on three pillars: strengthening contractual arrangements between the various actors in the food chain, making markets more transparent and improving the common agricultural policy (cap) to guarantee income to farmers in the face of price volatility. the report also looks at the crisis management mechanisms that europe must make faster and more effective. this text comes at a very opportune time, as reflections on the future of the cap are gathering pace. i welcome this initiative, which sends a strong signal to the agricultural world and makes concrete proposals to improve the situation of farmers in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which deals with the worrying issue of the volatility of prices of agricultural raw materials. these may be subjected to unbridled speculation with the consequences not only for farmers, who are victims of these speculative games, but also for the purchasing power of french and european consumers: the price of a whole range of foodstuffs, such as the price of bread, can be greatly increased. to combat this volatility, my colleague angélique delahaye made a number of recommendations based on three strong ideas: strengthening contractual arrangements between the various actors in the food chain, shifting the cap towards a policy of support for farmers through insurance systems to guarantee incomes, and improving market transparency through the creation of price observatories, as well as strengthening existing ones. agricultural raw materials cannot be considered as raw materials like other raw materials; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ with the end of production and price controls, all that remains is aid for private storage and public intervention in the markets to try to stabilise agricultural prices. unfortunately, these tools have not been able to stop the recent agricultural crises. the report, which is based on the simple observation that the current tools are not enough, proposes the development of new ones: much more ambitious countercyclical measures with more budgetary resources; rebalancing the relationship between farmers and the agri-food industry through contractual arrangements; and a more robust legislative framework against unfair practices. these are steps in the right direction. but the pressures on farmers require much more if we are to maintain a peasant agriculture. the increasing competition, particularly with the proliferation of trade agreements, further reinforces the dangerous tendency towards concentration of farms: ever larger and ever fewer. that is why we also urgently need mechanisms to guarantee farmers fixed prices for production volumes. otherwise there is no guarantee that they will produce and we will continue to be the ones who shut down the factory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled the cap's tools to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets . the report contains a basic error: it is intended to combat the volatility of prices on agricultural markets, whereas these prices are no longer volatile but desperately low, and have been for the past two years. the current issue is therefore rather the stagnation of low prices. in the absence of a coherent framework, this text is a catch-all in which common sense measures (notably public interventionism on markets, or the improvement of contractualisation) coexist with others, much more dangerous, which reinforce the financialisation of agriculture or the administrative weight of the cap.
in writing. - i voted against this report. in the absence of a coherent framework, this text is a catch-all in which common sense measures (in particular public interventionism on agricultural markets, or the improvement of contractualisation) coexist with others, much more dangerous, which reinforce the financialization of agriculture or the administrative weight of the cap. this is already a crushing burden for our farmers. finally, the main problem today is not price volatility but the stagnation of prices at very low levels.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this own-initiative report aims to combat price volatility on agricultural markets, even though prices have not been volatile for two years. the report therefore contains a basic cyclical error which we cannot ignore. the rapporteur's analysis of the difficulties encountered in the field of agriculture is fragmented and poorly prioritised. the solutions proposed are inconsistent. some measures are common sense, notably public interventionism in the markets, but others remain very dangerous for french agriculture. given this lack of coherence and the desire to impose additional administrative measures on the cap, we remain unfavourable to this report.
in writing. ‒ the main agricultural crises of recent years (milk crisis; livestock crises) have been partly caused by the high volatility of prices on the markets. it is true that agricultural markets are inherently unstable, due to the difficulty of adjusting production to demand, which is itself dependent on the eating habits of consumers. but above all, this extreme volatility of prices is the direct result of the double logic advocated by the european commission: deregulation and liberalization. deregulation, because the cap does not have the means to prevent sharp price falls. liberalisation, because european agriculture is increasingly exposed - as a result of major international trade negotiations - to competition from agro-industries in third countries. the delahaye report - which has been considerably reoriented by the european socialists - has the virtue of putting forward concrete solutions for improvement. while the right-wing has placed more emphasis on private instruments (better collective organisation of producers, price monitoring, etc.), the socialists have rightly stressed the importance of a voluntarist public policy, which does not forbid, for example, the use of instruments to moderate production. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur believes that the volatility of agricultural product prices is one of the main factors in the dire situation many european farmers are currently experiencing. that's right! but, while being watered down, the report only allows for the possibility that the financialisation of the world economy and the speculative game that accompanies it have a potential effect on agricultural markets. and with fatalism, she says that farmers' exposure to price volatility, (...) will increase , while indicating that it is the role of the european union to provide solutions to this phenomenon, in particular through the cap . a way of justifying in advance the inaction and inefficiency of the eu? far from any idea of production quotas and price regulation, the only way to remedy this is to offer farmers training courses on risk management. i am voting against this text which is a document of the disappearance of european agriculture.
in writing. ‒ this report, which has already been the subject of lengthy debate, was not the subject of prior consensus. it aims to combat price volatility on agricultural markets, where prices are not volatile but dramatically low. this text is a catch-all, without a coherent framework, it accumulates proposals of common sense but also dangerous measures that reinforce the financialization of agriculture and the administrative weight of the common agricultural policy. i therefore voted against this text, considering that its objectives are out of line with the reality of the situation and that the proposals which result from it are inconsistent.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is the subject of many debates in the agri committee, makes a serious short-term error. it tackles the question of price volatility, whereas the major problem facing producers today is the low stagnation of prices. moreover, this text is a catch-all, in which a large number of measures are mixed, sometimes very good, such as increasing public intervention on the markets or improving contractualisation, but sometimes also very dangerous because they reinforce the financialisation of agriculture and the administrative weight of the cap. we shall continue to oppose any text that is inconsistent.
in writing. ‒ this report contains a basic cyclical error: it aims to combat price volatility on agricultural markets, whereas these prices are no longer volatile, but desperately low, and have been for two years. the current issue is therefore rather the stagnation of low prices. in the absence of a coherent framework, this text is a catch-all, in which common sense measures (notably public interventionism on markets, or the improvement of contractualisation) coexist with others, much more dangerous, which reinforce the financialisation of agriculture or the administrative weight of the cap. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this french own-initiative report on the cap's tools for limiting price volatility on agricultural markets. the text, adopted by a large majority, proposes to improve the structuring of the sectors through three main ideas: strengthening contractual arrangements between the various actors, the orientation of the cap towards a policy of support for farmers through insurance systems, transparency through the creation of price observatories and the strengthening of existing observatories.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. although in its initial version it was very liberal, it was subsequently rebalanced by a substantial body of amendments by the socialist members. beyond market mechanisms and in the face of the systemic problem of price volatility in the agricultural sector, it is important to act on the balance between supply and demand by also having public policy tools and rules. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for milk and milk products, in particular the impact of the new rules on the market for milk and milk products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague angélique delahaye, which proposes the introduction of tools within the common agricultural policy to reduce price volatility on agricultural markets. agriculture faces higher levels of price volatility due to exchange rates, fluctuating oil prices, adverse weather conditions and animal or plant diseases. the organisation of the sectors should therefore be strengthened, a system of compulsory precautionary savings should be created, the income of our farmers should be better protected and the transparency of the markets should be increased by setting up price observatories. a europe that acts and wins is also a europe that provides concrete solutions to economic actors in the sectors in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ the volatility of agricultural commodity prices threatens the sustainability of european agriculture and exposes farmers to unacceptable precariousness. the report proposes to adapt the cap to better regulate the market, control price developments and protect farmers. it advocates strengthening the bargaining power of farmers in the food production chain, in particular on the basis of standard, transparent, balanced and collectively negotiated contracts. the report also suggests creating real tools for managing climate, health and economic risks, such as sectoral mutual funds and insurance mechanisms. it also proposes the creation of european agricultural price observatories, which will produce a dynamic analysis of agricultural markets and formulate recommendations. finally, the report recommends the development of a medium-term counter-cyclical intervention system to enable the union to act on agricultural markets to avoid price falls. i voted in favour of this report because it contains proposals for better protection of farmers and preservation of the countryside.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague, mrs angélique delahaye, on the cap's tools for reducing price volatility on agricultural markets. this text represents the first stage in the preparation of the next cap. a series of tools are proposed to combat price volatility. the report has three main ideas: to strengthen contractual relations between the various actors in the food chain, to shift the cap towards a policy of supporting farmers through insurance schemes to guarantee incomes in the face of price volatility, and to make markets more transparent by creating and strengthening existing price observatories. finally, the report also reflects and develops ways of dealing with crises, given that the mechanisms are not currently sufficiently rapid and effective.
in writing. - the report contains a basic cyclical error: it is intended to combat price volatility on agricultural markets when these prices are no longer volatile, but desperately low, and have been for two years. the current issue is therefore rather the stagnation of low prices. the analysis of the causes of volatility and the difficulties faced by agriculture is presented in a fragmented and poorly hierarchised way. in the absence of a coherent framework, this text is a catch-all, in which common sense measures coexist with other, much more dangerous, measures that reinforce the financialization of agriculture or the administrative weight of the cap. i voted against this text.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, even before i heard the previous speaker, i was thinking that i think we should address these issues a little bit and stop having to choose sides. either we are on the side of greece or we are on the side of europe. for my part, i have the impression that greece is one of the member states, that a number of efforts have been made, that when financial assistance reaches 330 billion, the greeks cannot say that nothing has been done for them and that the fact that greece is still a member of the euro area shows the common will to keep this country in the euro area, in accordance with the will of its people. the solidarity we have shown is solidarity with a member state that has had imbalances. my own has had imbalances too, so i am not here to seek the small beast. it was not the european union that threw greece into difficulties: there were difficulties which the european union more or less solved, but which cannot be entirely attributed to the european union. i would also like to say a few words as chairman of the intergroup on poverty. i agree that the social situation is very serious; that when there are so many children suffering from poverty - about 23 percent living in difficult conditions - it is not good for the future of the country; that when youth unemployment is too high, it is not good for the future of the country; i remember when i was rapporteur for the two-pack, we tried to do a lot to ensure that there were as many actions on the expenditure side as on the revenue side to rebalance a budget. i think the key question is whether the european commission and the member states in the council agree to focus on reforms that bring investment and jobs. we must get out of this role-play where we reject responsibility to the limit and actually think of the greek people and the people of the other member states who have contributed with their taxes to try to get greece out of where it is. i think we need a balanced approach, which i do not find in all the speeches, and especially not in the one just before me.
madam president, commissioner, president juncker always talks to us about the 'triple a social' and here, tonight, you have spoken about social justice as one of the priorities of the european union. i must say that i was very shocked, frankly, when president juncker, in his reply to my colleagues in the employment committee who asked him about the suspension of collective or sectoral agreements at national level, said that the charter of fundamental rights should not apply to greece's budgetary conciliation programme. there can be no double standards, and if we want greece to be an example in respecting the budgetary rule, we must give it the means to be an example in respecting social democracy, otherwise there will be no return to the climate of confidence. this confidence awaits even stronger signs of debt to restore investment in the country. this country is suffering in the front line in the name of european solidarity for the reception of refugees, this country has now been engaged for many years in structural reforms which it is implementing with determination, with a democratically elected government, and it is time that it recovers all the tools of social democracy. it will be recalled that at the beginning of the intervention of the european commission, in the case of the troika, from the very beginning, the ilo and the council of europe denounced these shortcomings which prevented greece from having these indispensable tools. commissioner, tell the president of the commission that it is time to allow greece to recover all the tools that will re-create the climate of confidence and investment that greece and we ourselves so badly need.
in writing. i condemn the austerity measures imposed by the troika on the greek people. these measures, which have been applied in the past, have proved ineffective. however, this year we have seen a steady increase in the number of austerity reforms: on 9 may two reforms (pensions and income tax) were implemented, which led to the discontent of the greek people; at the end of may, an increase in vat and the creation of new taxes (residence taxes, for example) were on the agenda; at the end of september, these reforms concerned the reorganisation of the energy market and further privatisations; today, wages, social benefits and tax increases are bringing the greek people into the streets. when will the european union stop deliberately organizing the impoverishment of entire countries? but these measures are not only economic nonsense, they are also an affront to sovereignty: the greek people rejected this policy by voting massively "no" in the referendum of july 2015, just as the french had voted "no" in the referendum on the european constitution, finally imposed by the government. two different countries, one and the same shameful way of doing things in the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we have discussed this famous eu-turkey declaration on many occasions, but what is the opinion of parliament and what is the assessment of this declaration? the european union is sending syrians back to turkey, where the human rights situation is deteriorating day by day. the pressure on greece to emigrate had to be reduced. but was there really no other solution than to send these refugees back to a country in such a situation? let me be clear: i am not against cooperation with third countries, which is an essential instrument of a comprehensive and effective european migration policy, but this cannot mean the outsourcing of this same policy. it is clear that agreements are still being concluded in this direction, as with afghanistan, pakistan and mali. we must tackle the root causes of migration. this is probably the most important thing and it must be done through our external action, in full respect of the union's values. it would be totally harmful if this approach were conditional, between humanitarian action and border protection. finally, i would like to express my total incomprehension of the desire to re-establish the transfer of asylum seekers under the dublin regulation, when, for example, the echr had already condemned belgium a few years ago. i think that this is not the right way forward and that the situation really needs to be improved considerably before these transfers can be resumed.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first like to thank our rapporteur and his tenacity in carrying out our mandate. it was a waste! this text is significant in what i would call the member states' obsession with migration. in the early 2000s, when the visa requirement and exemptions were implemented, we were in a completely different landscape and the union's will was to open its borders to the nationals of countries with which it intended to have good relations. the liberalisation agreements were implemented even before the european parliament approved them. in the last few months, a complete change of direction. the new agreements are being trampled underfoot while waiting for the adoption of this suspension mechanism. the european parliament has been subjected to real blackmail and, instead of improving the text, the council and commission have only wanted to make it harder, the states concerned being judged on their capacity to be the good policemen of the european union, especially in relation to readmission agreements, and no matter how fundamental rights are being flouted. when you know which actors are affected by the blockade, georgia and ukraine, which have fulfilled their obligations, but also kosovo and turkey, it is not surprising. the gue/ngl will not follow you in this field.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, schengen is a comatose patient, but the european union is still trying to save him. this time, the aim is to reassure public opinion by strengthening the european visa suspension mechanism. the aim is to be able to temporarily re-establish the visa requirement for entry into the union in the event of a sudden spike in irregular immigration. it will not work, but the union does not care, because its real objective is elsewhere. it wants to give illusory guarantees to pass off visa-free travel for 45 million ukrainians. while we should protect ourselves from the wave of migration by reintroducing checks at our national borders, the union is doing the opposite, opening up its borders even more. the union continues to dream of a world without borders, while states all over the world are re-establishing their borders. his dream is a nightmare which the peoples of europe reject wherever they dare to question it by referendum. in the netherlands, the united kingdom, hungary, italy and tomorrow in france.
mr president, i am astonished at this debate, which is biased by speeches on 'human rights' and the presumption of innocence. i am also surprised that you have refused our group's request to discuss the situation in aleppo, which, you will agree, is far more crucial. it has not escaped me: ms veld and the european association for human rights are very shocked by the data leak at europol. obviously, the massive collection of data on citizens who have not committed any crime is an attack on freedoms. it is for this reason that my group has always deplored the fact that no member state of the european union has agreed to grant political asylum to snowden. but what are we talking about here? data on people linked to terrorism cases, including the terrible islamist attacks in madrid 191 dead. data protection is essential and such an incident is certainly regrettable from this point of view, but to have the respect of the fundamental rights of persons involved in terrorist cases as the main concern is exaggerated. it reminds me of your speeches defending the rights of illegal immigrants, even if they are rapists, murderers or terrorists.
mr president, the inequalities between european citizens are unbearable. this lack of reciprocity for the citizens of certain countries makes them, as has been said, second-class citizens, or even third-class citizens, since the romanians and bulgarians are doubly penalized, once by canada and once by the united states. you tell us that it's all right for canada, which is true. that's good. it took blackmailing romania and bulgaria for not signing ceta to get us to some results. but it is good news. i will simply ask you why it is necessary to wait until the end of 2017 for this measure to finally be implemented. the same is not true of the united states. you tell us that there is no progress with this country. then start the process! there is no solution. if the united states doesn't want to listen, we have to implement the rules that exist. the negative impact would not only be for european citizens, it would also be for american citizens. your catastrophic figures are not serious, commissioner. these are assumptions and it is also a lack of confidence in the european institutions. be confident and negotiate on equal terms with the united states. the commission is the guardian of the treaties, as has also been said. if the european union itself does not respect the rules, it is true that it is in a very bad situation.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, a deadly device exploded on sunday 11 december in the church of st peter and st paul in cairo. at least 25 people were killed and 49 others were injured, most of them women and children. christians in muslim lands are threatened in their flesh. in iraq and syria, the monsters of the islamic state still have genocidal intentions. do not think that only eastern christians are in danger; the security of christians in europe is no longer assured. a priest was slaughtered in his church in saint-pierre-du-rouvray by young french islamists, who had been given everything by our country. churches are regularly the targets of anti-christian vandalism, and no one seems to be particularly moved by this. it is time to protect christians in the east and europe from the revival of militant islam. at a time when the european union seems to be willing to submit to the whims of the world, let us ring the bell for the victims. later, it will be too late.
mr president, the attack last sunday is the culmination of a sad litany of persecutions. at least 42 churches in egypt have been the subject of various desecrations since 2013, although president sisi's efforts in favor of the copts can be applauded. by targeting the largest christian minority in the arab world, with some eight million souls, the islamic state is wounding christendom as a whole in its flesh. our values of tolerance and humanism must not lead us to blindness; it is the eradication of christianity that is the ultimate goal of the islamists. at a time when western interference has brought about the disintegration of once functioning states, this goal is within reach in the middle east. it is urgent that the europeans give concrete support to the christian minorities in the arab world, so as not to bear a historical responsibility for their disappearance.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the regulation adopted last july was i had the opportunity to say this nothing more than a gadget, but a perverse gadget announcing the recognition of the content of civil documents, the recognition, therefore, of a legal situation. mrs delvaux mentions only registered partnerships, and this will certainly be the case for same-sex marriages and why not the procreation of children conceived by gpa. i would remind you that civil law is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states and that some of them have chosen not to recognise same-sex partnerships or marriages. this recognition in its own right which you are preparing for us will certainly lead to a law shopping phenomenon, i.e. that nationals of one member state will go to another member state in order to enter into a partnership or marriage. in the end, we see the twisted logic that drives you. to force all states to recognise a given legal situation, no matter how much they do not wish to recognise it, is what you are preparing for us, a legal coup d'état. we will oppose it with all our might.
in writing. with some 20 000 children born with birth defects, thalidomide is one of the biggest health scandals known in europe. in the 1950's, the german chemie grünenthal laboratory failed to take the necessary precautions to conceal the devastating side effects on the foetus of a drug (thalidomide) that was supposed to relieve mild illnesses. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. as a result of decades of neglect, the social and health situation of the victims continues to deteriorate. as they enter their third years, the question of their autonomy becomes even more pressing. it is therefore urgent to recognise their conditions and to ensure that they have access to the medical care they so desperately need. i therefore support the resolution tabled by the enf group which calls, on the basis of the commitments made by commissioner andriukaitis on 9 march 2016, for the establishment of an assistance programme for thalidomide victims to complement the action of the member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, on 7 june 2010, at the age of 14, margaux died of an aggressive brain tumour, which unfortunately was incurable. her mother wanted to continue fighting, through the association "imagine for margaux". it is his struggle that i want to echo today. like her, thousands of parents in europe lose their children to serious illnesses each year because of a lack of effective treatment. how can we continue to accept that children die of diseases that we know how to treat in adults? despite the progress made by the 2006 paediatric regulation, for example by requiring manufacturers to carry out paediatric investigation plans, paediatric research is still too rare. while the commission will shortly be carrying out - as you said, commissioner - the evaluation of the existing regulation, it is essential to make substantial improvements. research is still not sufficiently encouraged and too many exemptions are granted which allow laboratories not to carry out or not to complete paediatric investigation plans. the first urgency is to use the flexibilities of the current legislation to base the obligation to conduct paediatric investigation plans on the mechanism of action of the molecule and to make these more realistic and feasible. the second urgent need is to build a genuinely incentive system which, on the one hand, punishes those who do not play the game and, on the other hand, encourages laboratories to develop indications which are only for paediatric use and not necessarily based on adult products. we must think about this. "go, fight and win" are the words that were found in margaux's notebooks, and we are now its custodians. it's up to us to fight and win for the sick children. i am counting on you, commissioner, and you must help us to avoid wasting time on this matter.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i respect the work of the committee on petitions and its chair, ms wikström, but i wonder, listening to you, whether this committee is not being given too much importance. you would think that it would be the only intermediary between the citizens and the union. i believe that the intermediary between the citizens and the union is the european parliament. i heard a figure of 190 citizens received earlier. i get more on weekends. do you not think, madam president, that the system of mediation between the union and the citizens is being bureaucratized?
author. madam president, the resolution is concerned first and foremost with the key issue of respect for minority rights in china and the reiterated wish for constructive and inclusive dialogue between china and minorities. their situation is very worrying after the demolition of the largest buddhist academy in the world, after the forced re-education campaigns of the so-called 'patriots' and the life imprisonment without trial of ilham tohti, after the constant restrictions on the fundamental freedoms of assembly, religion, thought and expression and all the arbitrary arrests. i ask you, commissioner, on behalf of the commission, to make these violations of human rights and fundamental rights elements and, above all, even priorities of the europe-china dialogue by asking china to respect its commitments. in tibet, with all this bullying and violations, we see a proliferation of self-immolations, especially of young people. along with the threats to tibetan culture, all these repressions explain the desperation of the tibetan people, who only want their territorial autonomy and respect for their culture. the resolution is therefore a call for solidarity, for resistance, it is a call against oppression and violations of human rights.
mr president, the three attacks at the border crossing near bangladesh have been used as a pretext by the burmese army to launch a new wave of repression against the rohingya. ngos report massive destruction of homes, other buildings and even entire villages, forcing the rohingya population to flee once again. there are reports of 25,000 rohingya arriving in bangladesh and 30,000 displaced. these events highlight once again the recurring discrimination faced by the rohingya and are reminiscent of the violence of 2012 and 2015. in his june 2016 report, the un high commissioner for human rights is harsh. it rightly denounces the arbitrary deprivation of nationality, the threats to their lives and safety, the denial of the most fundamental rights, such as health and education, forced labour, sexual violence and the limitation of their political rights. since march 2015, the rohingya have been deprived of their white card (provisional identity card), and children of birth certificates since 2012, making them institutional stateless. the coming to power of the national league for democracy and the appointment of aung san suu kyi, nobel peace prize winner, as special adviser - she could not be appointed prime minister because of her marriage to a foreigner - did not change anything. the attitude of the neighbouring countries aggravates the situation. bangladesh is systematically pushing back the rohingya, thailand is exploiting the situation, calling it genocide, while the rohingya are being persecuted there as well. we remember the mass graves discovered in 2015 in thailand and, especially, in malaysia. the establishment of a working group, under the chairmanship of kofi annan, on development issues in rakhine state can be a source of hope, provided that the committee can look at human rights violations. the same is true of the peace talks that are to take place in february 2017, if the rohingya are to be included and therefore considered part of the burmese people. there is an urgent need to set up an independent commission of inquiry into what happened in october 2015. the eu-human rights dialogue should be used to put pressure on the burmese authorities to change the 1982 nationality law, as well as the so-called race and religion protection laws - a whole agenda - which were adopted in september 2015. the gsp, as well as the negotiation of the investment agreement, are other instruments available to the eu, as is the dialogue with the burmese parliamentarians. yes, the situation is difficult. yes, some progress has been made, but military power remains pervasive. we cannot remain silent. it is up to the european institutions to act by using all the means at their disposal to put an end to the discrimination and massacres of the rohingya.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is sensitive to the plight of this population persecuted because of its identity, but we must also be particularly vigilant about initiatives to exploit their plight. the same is true of the organisation of islamic cooperation, whose harmful role in the radicalisation of muslim societies, under the leadership of saudi arabia, is well known. but the islamist preacher al-zawahiri also took up the issue by calling for jihad on their behalf. that is why, in view of what we have seen in bosnia-herzegovina and elsewhere, i call on the european parliament to exercise greater caution on this issue, as on many others.
mr president, as a sovereign state, burma is also a mosaic of various religious minorities, including the muslims known as the rohingya, but also the christians of the karen people, who have never been interested in moralists like you. nobel peace prize and sakharov prize laureate aung san suu kyi is the right person to ease tensions in burma. it is time for the european union to learn from its past mistakes. as soon as we intervene in the name of our conception of human rights, the tragedies accumulate. recently, syria and libya have sunk, accelerating the demographic crisis that threatens our nations with an invasion of migrants. the case of the rohingya in burma also reveals a little-known or rather hidden reality: the vitality of the umma. radical islamists from the french suburbs are going to help these people just because of their religious affiliation. barakacity is also active in syria; some of its members are suspected of deep sympathy for the islamic state. for all these reasons, i ask parliament to respect the sovereignty of burma.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening to the christians, the yazidis, is absolutely abominable. i simply want to remind you that under saddam hussein or even assad, the christian minority - i know them well - lived in peace. do we need to remind the house that since 1991 three million people have died in iraq because of western intervention? we must also remember that since 11 september two million people have died, including 1.7 million as a result of our sanctions. so i welcome these tears, and i suffer with the christians, since i had a hospital in this sector, but i want to emphasize the hypocrisy of some tears, because let us not forget that these countries were destabilized by our interventions and that democracy was only a pretext.
mr president, that is the whole problem with this joint resolution, which contains excellent provisions and which rightly notes the horror of the situation in iraq, in the mosul plain, the genocide against the yazidis, the genocide against the eastern christians, who are the oldest inhabitants of this region, and this without any apparent cause. but the weakness of this resolution is that it only addresses the symptoms, the symptoms today are the keystones, and it goes much less back to the causes. as the previous speaker said, it must nevertheless be stressed that the main cause of this situation was the chaos that resulted from western interventions in general, american and anglo-saxon in particular, against regimes that were certainly authoritarian but which at least had the merit of maintaining a relative balance in this area. we have tried to attack these authoritarian regimes and in so doing we have destroyed the only political force that could oppose islamism, namely arab nationalism. the result is chaos, hatred of the western world, and we are partly responsible for this.
mr president, as far as i am concerned, this is a real point of order and even two for the price of one. the first, on the basis of article 166: president schulz, in leaving, leaves us a final manifestation of his authoritarian character, because he has no right to punish a member on the grounds that he has freely gone to a foreign country. rule 166 - i have it here - allows him only to punish a member who seriously disrupts the sitting. did mr voigt seriously disrupt the session? no, you can't! so mr. schulz has once again committed an abuse of power. second point of order, mr president - and i will be very brief - on the basis of rule 141 (4) of our rules of procedure, which governs the relations between our institution and the court of justice: it is expressly provided in those rules that the president must be authorised by parliament, by the legal affairs committee, before he can appear before the court of justice. what has happened is that in a dispute between the administration of this parliament and one of our colleagues, parliament has been dismissed on the ground of inadmissibility. in a similar case, which is brought against the parliament's administration, the parliament's legal advisers claim that they will provide for themselves. so far, however, as far as i know, the rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, mrs hautala, has considered that this appeal is not useful. consequently, the legal advisers of the parliament are exceeding their powers by announcing that they will take their case to the court of justice, and they do not have the right to do so at present. they are civil servants, they are not members of parliament; parliament is the members, not the civil servants.
in writing. ‒ the european union wishes to revise the european visa suspension mechanism for entry into the union. the aim is to facilitate the re-establishment of the visa requirement in the event of an immigration peak. the european union is trying to reassure public opinion, but its real objective is elsewhere: it wants to give illusory guarantees to make the abolition of visas look like it is for millions of ukrainians and georgians. while we should protect ourselves from the wave of migration by restoring controls at our national borders, the union is doing the opposite by opening its borders even further. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the commission should be asked to apply reciprocity in visa waiver between the union and the united states and the union and canada. following the notification of non-reciprocity in april 2014, the commission should have suspended the visa waiver for the citizens of those two countries as from april 2016.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns third countries whose nationals are subject to or exempt from the visa requirement with a review of the suspension mechanism. the eu therefore wants to review this visa suspension mechanism for entry into the union. the aim is to facilitate the re-establishment of the obligation in the event of an 'immigration peak'. the eu wants to give illusory guarantees to pass off the visa suspension for ukrainians and georgians and reassure public opinion in fact. the reality is that we need a real policy to combat immigration at our national borders and that is why i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union wishes to revise the european visa suspension mechanism for entry into the union. the aim is to facilitate the re-establishment of the visa requirement in the event of an immigration peak. the european union thus wishes to reassure public opinion. but its real objective is something else: it wants to give illusory guarantees to make it look like visa-free travel for millions of ukrainians and georgians. while we should protect ourselves from the wave of migration by reintroducing checks at our national borders, the union is doing the opposite by opening up its borders even more. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ visa liberalisation is an important aspect of the union's foreign policy. it is therefore essential to update this policy to adapt it to the new challenges facing the european union today. this is especially true as discussions on visa liberalisation are currently underway, in particular with ukraine, georgia, kosovo and turkey. for these reasons, a revision of the suspension mechanism was necessary in order to make it more flexible. the commission will now be able to re-introduce the visa requirement for third-country nationals in a number of cases: in the event of a sudden and substantial increase in irregular immigration, unfounded asylum applications, rejection of too many readmission applications or in the event of a threat to security in the territory of the union. i voted in favour of the revision of the readmission mechanism.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the reintroduction of a visa requirement by member states for third-country nationals who are hitherto exempt from a visa requirement. this measure applies to nationals of georgia and ukraine and responds to the exceptional situation faced by the member states, namely the substantial increase in irregular immigration and security risks. this suspension could apply in the event of a significant increase in the number of georgian or ukrainian nationals refused entry to, or staying illegally on, the territory of the union. this flexibility instrument should enable member states to better manage migration flows and to strengthen security on european territory, while ensuring respect for human rights; i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the revision of the suspension mechanism under the regulation allowing visa liberalisation with third countries. the mechanism had not been activated since 2013 due to the rigidity of the criteria and the complexity of the procedure. by reintroducing a more flexible visa waiver suspension mechanism, the european union has finally abandoned its policy of unconditional liberalisation. it will now have the necessary tool to be able to effectively temporarily reinstate the visa requirement for third-country nationals in the event of sudden spikes in irregular immigration, unfounded asylum applications, a lack of cooperation with the european union on readmissions or in the event of a threat to public policy or internal security related to the third-country nationals concerned. while the current discussions on further visa liberalisation, notably with turkey, but also with georgia, kosovo and ukraine, raise many concerns in view of the migration and security challenges, we had to ensure that the mechanism was working properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the regulation establishing the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states and the list of those whose nationals are exempt from this requirement. the proposals made by the european parliament aim to ensure internal security through appropriate and effective measures, for example by reintroducing the visa requirement for third country nationals in specific cases: spike in irregular immigration, unfounded asylum applications, or failure to cooperate with the european union. i welcome the compromise that has been reached, which proposes solutions to respond more appropriately to emergencies.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim is to review the european visa suspension mechanism for entry into the union, with the aim of facilitating the re-establishment of the visa requirement in the event of an 'immigration spike'. in reality, this is a question of granting illusory preliminary guarantees to the planned visa waiver for ukrainians and georgians. we are therefore opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ vote against: the european union wishes to review the european visa suspension mechanism for entry into the union.
in writing. ‒ despite the promising title, i voted against this report, which aims to reform the procedure for re-establishing the visa requirement for nationals of countries which were previously exempt from it. it is intended to facilitate such recovery in the event of mass immigration, unfounded asylum applications, rejected readmission applications or threats to security in the european territory. the facts cited must be duly substantiated and proved, and the protection of human rights guaranteed. the rapporteur himself admits that the main aim is to protect the rights of third-country nationals and to continue to extend the list of countries whose nationals are exempt from visas. for the record, the commission is preparing to grant this exemption to the ukrainians and georgians, and angela merkel promised mr erdoğan the same for the turks, even if this promise is facing some delays, which will soon be overcome. rather than knowing how to react, badly and too late, to the foreseeable migratory consequences of this insane european policy, i would prefer that visa liberalization be stopped immediately. otherwise, this report is mostly a sham.
in writing. ‒ on 15 december, we voted in favour of introducing a 'helping brake' in the visa exemption for third-country nationals. the review of the suspension mechanism allows the european commission and the member states to temporarily suspend the visa exemption for certain third-country nationals, in compliance with human rights, for the following reasons: substantial increase in irregular migrants from these countries, increase in unfounded asylum applications, restriction of cooperation on readmissions, or imminent threat to general european public order. greater flexibility of this existing mechanism was needed, and that is why i voted in favour of revising this mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the visa suspension mechanism allows the suspension of the visa exemption for certain third country nationals in very specific cases (threat to internal security, failure to comply with the criteria used for visa liberalisation, in particular human rights violations). today i voted in favour of the revision of this mechanism because, although the negotiations on this text were difficult, they resulted in each of the institutions now having a say in the triggering of this mechanism, whereas parliament had initially been totally excluded from this process. parliament will therefore have a full role in monitoring the abusive use of the visa suspension mechanism. finally, the closure of this dossier is a further step towards visa liberalisation for georgia and ukraine, which have been blocked for too long pending this review.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that parliament has supported the strengthening of the suspension mechanism in the context of visa liberalisation. the mechanism, which has been in place since 2013, had never been activated due to the rigidity of the criteria and the complexity of the procedure. since then, the european and international situation has changed and we have had to adapt our instruments to these new realities. terrorist threats and waves of migration are challenges that europe cannot meet by unconditionally liberalising visas on a whim. we have seen, after the agreement with albania, an increase in the number of its nationals in france illegally. but visa-free does not mean unlimited entry! therefore, the suspension clause can now be triggered in the event of a substantial increase in the number of nationals of a country concerned, the number of unfounded asylum applications or the lack of cooperation on readmissions. these restrictions may also apply in the event of threats to public policy or internal security linked to the third-country nationals concerned. we must put an end to the abuses, especially as further liberalisations are planned with georgia and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ in seeking to reassure public opinion by revising the european visa suspension mechanism and better managing the spikes in immigration, the european union is above all trying to make the abolition of visas look like it is for millions of ukrainians and georgians. the ultimate objective is therefore contrary to its promise: the union is opening up more of the borders it has a duty to protect more than ever. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which reforms the visa waiver suspension mechanism to make it faster and thus facilitate the waivers currently under discussion, in particular with ukraine and georgia. we are introducing an emergency brake that can be triggered in the event of strong migratory pressure from a visa-free country, or in the event of a lack of cooperation from the country in the readmission of its nationals or irregular migrants who have transited through its territory before joining the european union. visas could also be reintroduced if there is a threat to public policy or internal security and if those threats are linked to the nationals of the third country concerned. this text thus makes it possible to reconcile free movement with the need to ensure the security and control of our european borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which aims to give illusory guarantees (the possibility of requiring visas) to make it look like the abolition of visas for millions of ukrainians and georgians.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which facilitates the implementation of the visa waiver suspension mechanism. this 'emergency brake' allows the visa requirement to be reinstated for third countries which are exempt from it, in the event of a substantial increase in the number of nationals of a country concerned, in the number of unfounded asylum applications or in the absence of cooperation on readmissions. these restrictions may also apply in the event of a threat to public policy or internal security linked to nationals of the countries concerned. this simplification of the procedure will allow for full application of the mechanism, which has not been activated since 2013. it is important that we can use them quickly and effectively, in view of the security and migration issues, and in particular in view of the discussions with a number of countries (turkey, georgia, kosovo, ukraine) seeking visa liberalisation for their nationals.
in writing. - i voted against this text. the aim of the proposal is to revise the european mechanism for the suspension of visas for entry into the european union. the aim of this revision is to implement a leverage mechanism that would make it easier to reinstate the visa requirement in the event of a spike in immigration. of course, this idea is appealing. unfortunately, the real objective is elsewhere. the aim is to reassure public opinion so that the abolition of visas for millions of ukrainians and georgians is voted on, which we oppose.
in writing. ‒ the european union wishes to review the mechanism for suspending the visa requirement in the event of a spike in immigration. in trying to reassure public opinion, the union has in reality another objective, which is to give illusory guarantees to make it look like the abolition of visas for millions of ukrainians and georgians. i was opposed to this revision because i thought that the states should be protected from the waves of migration by reintroducing border controls.
in writing. ‒ the european union wishes to review the european mechanism for visa suspension of entry to the union in order to be able to more easily re-establish the visa requirement in the event of a spike in immigration, and thus reassure public opinion. however, the hidden purpose of this revision is to give illusory guarantees to make it look like the visa abolition for millions of ukrainians and georgians. while we should protect ourselves from the wave of migration by restoring controls at our national borders, the union is doing the opposite by opening its borders even further. we therefore naturally oppose this revision.
in writing. ‒ the european union wishes to revise the european visa suspension mechanism for entry into the union. the aim is to facilitate the re-establishment of the visa requirement in the event of an immigration peak. the european union thus wishes to reassure public opinion. but its real objective is something else: it wants to give illusory guarantees to make it look like visa-free travel for millions of ukrainians and georgians. while we should protect ourselves from the wave of migration by reintroducing checks at our national borders, the union is doing the opposite by opening up its borders even more. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the amendment of the regulation establishing the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states and the list of those whose nationals are exempt from it. the report aims to allow the temporary reintroduction of the visa requirement for third-country nationals in the event of sudden spikes in irregular immigration, diversion of asylum applications, lack of cooperation in readmissions or threats to public policy and internal security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the review of the visa waiver suspension mechanism for third-country nationals. in view of the current political and migration situation, we would like to see more flexibility in the suspension mechanism so that visa requirements for third-country nationals can be temporarily reintroduced in the event of crises linked to an increase in irregular immigration or in the event of a threat to public policy or internal security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows the review of the suspension mechanism under the regulation governing visa liberalisation with certain third countries. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the scheme to the united kingdom. the revision thus allows the temporary reintroduction of the visa requirement for third-country nationals in the following circumstances: sudden spike in irregular immigration, unfounded asylum applications, failure to cooperate with the european union on readmissions or threat to public policy or internal security.
in writing. ‒ the european union wishes to revise the european visa suspension mechanism for entry into the union. the aim is to facilitate the re-establishment of the visa requirement in the event of a spike in immigration. the european union thus wishes to reassure public opinion. but its real objective is something else: to give illusory guarantees to make it look like the abolition of visas for millions of ukrainians and georgians. while we should protect ourselves from the wave of migration by reintroducing controls at our national borders, the union is doing the opposite by opening them up even more. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposed here aims to increase controls on the introduction into the european union of fruit, in this case citrus fruit, originating in third countries. this proposal calls for increased controls on these fruits which could contaminate european production. for traceability purposes, fruit shall only be introduced into the union if it complies with the following conditions: • the production area, packaging facilities, exporters and any other operators involved in the handling of specified fruits must be officially registered; • during transport from the production field to the point of entry into the union, the specified fruits must be accompanied by documents issued under the control of the national plant protection organisation; • for specified fruits originating in third countries, in addition to the first two points, pre- and post-harvest treatments were also proposed. i voted for this proposal, which is also a way of protecting our citrus growers from the importation of cheaper products from third countries.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has presented an implementing act amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on protective measures against the introduction into the union of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the union. parliament, which has no binding power in respect of implementing acts, gives its opinion in a resolution of objection. as it stands, the commission implementing act is not consistent with the new regulation no 2016/2031 on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants which repeals directive 200/29/ec. the resolution calls for greater protection and controls to ensure that plants are protected from harmful organisms. for example, we are calling for more requirements for the import of fruit from countries where phyllosticta citricarpa is present. i voted in favour of that objection.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this resolution is to object in a non-binding manner and to propose amendments to a draft european commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on plant health protection measures in the union. this text comes in the context of a transition between two pieces of legislation. pending the entry into force of the new regulation 2016/2031 of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, adopted in october 2016, the european commission proposes to amend council directive 2000/29/ec by way of secondary legislation. the new legislation has been the subject of difficult negotiations for more than three years and the commission's draft implementing directive is not consistent with the political agreement reached under the new regulation; the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should rule on the question of the compatibility of the aid with the common market. considering that, in a context of globalisation and global warming, it is necessary to strengthen protection against health hazards that could devastate our european crop production, i voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection, which is against the amendment of the protective measures against the introduction into the union of organisms harmful to plants. the european commission wants to simplify and lighten the requirements for the import of certain fruits from third countries, in particular those affected by black spot citrus fruit, and this is not acceptable. i support the proposals in this resolution which call for the requirements for imports to be maintained, regardless of the destination of the product. we must remain vigilant about what we bring into the european union and maintain responsible and harmonised protection of our member states.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it concerns the commission's proposal for an implementing directive on organisms harmful to plants or plant products, with a view to checks on the introduction into the european union of fruit, in this case citrus fruit. the measures necessary for traceability include the official registration of all operators involved in fruit handling and the presence of certificates from the national plant protection organisation for each delivery. we are in favour of these measures, which help to protect our farmers from foreign competition.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this proposal to improve the control of citrus fruit from third countries entering europe. this is an effective way of protecting our producers from fierce competition from the south and from potential contamination of their farms, with improved traceability from one end of the chain to the other. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-binding objection, which calls on the european commission to remove the possibility provided for in its original text to relax the requirements for the import of fruit intended for juice processing and, on the contrary, to strengthen those concerning the import of fruit originating in countries where harmful organisms are present. that objection requires the third country of origin to carry out tests on the fruit before shipment to detect possible infections. parliament is once again standing up for the health of consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it protects our producers from imports and the risk of contamination.
in writing. ‒ the object of the objection was to amend a proposal for an implementing directive submitted by the commission. the proposed text seeks to increase controls on imports of fruit, particularly citrus fruit, from third countries. the citrus fruit in question should be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate and the complete traceability of their production, harvesting, packaging, export and transport should be checked. our group supports this rigorous control, especially since it is also a way of protecting our citrus growers from the massive importation of cheaper products from third countries. i voted for that objection.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the aim is to intensify controls on the introduction into the european union of fruit (in this case, citrus fruits) from third countries. these controls are numerous (phytosanitary certificate, registration of fields and installations, etc.) and, in addition to health protection, they help to protect our producers against the importation of products that are becoming cheaper and cheaper.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a european parliament resolution aims to strengthen controls on the introduction into the european union of fruit, in particular citrus fruit, from third countries. it is provided that imported citrus fruits are accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate stating that the fruit originates from a production field which has been subjected to appropriate treatments against various diseases. other provisions are provided to strengthen control of traceability. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to protect our citrus growers from the importation of cheaper products.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of this resolution, which calls for more phytosanitary controls on citrus fruit imports to avoid the import of organisms harmful to our plantations. imported fruit should meet the following conditions: registration of the production area, packaging facilities, exporters and any other operators involved in the handling of the specified fruit, the presence of documents issued under the supervision of the national plant protection organisation during transport and, for certain fruits, the use of pre- and post-harvest treatments. these controls, which will help to avoid contamination of our citrus production, are also a means of protecting it against increasingly aggressive competition from many third countries.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for this proposal, which is also a way of protecting our citrus growers from the import of cheaper products from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the european commission implementing directive amending annexes i to v to council directive 2000/29/ec on plant health protection measures in the union. the text calls on the commission to refrain from relaxing the requirements for the import of fruit intended for industrial processing into juice, to tighten its requirements for the import of fruit originating in countries where phyllosticta citricarpa is present, or to take measures to prevent the introduction of the insect thaumatotibia leucotreta.
in writing. ‒ the measures envisaged in the commission's draft directive on plant protection do not sufficiently prevent the risks of importing exotic pests. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes to amend this directive. we call for better protection of citrus growers against pests by increasing the requirements for importing fruit for processing, especially when it comes from countries where exotic pests are present. sample controls should be strengthened and contaminated fruit should be treated before import into the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection, considering that the measures envisaged to combat the introduction of plant pests are not sufficiently stringent to protect eu producers. we cannot accept that the european commission does not act by proposing simplified and lighter measures. we must maintain the requirements for imports from third countries, regardless of the destination of the product.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposed here aims to increase controls on the introduction into the european union of fruit, in this case citrus fruit, originating in third countries. this resolution calls for citrus fruit from third countries to be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate proving that the fruit originates from a production field which has been subjected, at the appropriate time, to treatments against various diseases affecting citrus fruit in particular. this proposal calls for increased controls on these fruits which could contaminate european production. i choose to support this objection because it is a way of protecting our citrus growers from the importation of cheaper products from third countries.
in writing. ‒ in the 1950s and 1960s, thalidomide, a nausea-vomiting drug from the german pharmaceutical company chemie-grünenthal, was given to pregnant women. more than 20,000 babies died or were born deformed. today, there are thought to be over 4,000 survivors in europe: 450 in italy, 90 in austria, 2,800 in germany, 103 in sweden, 400 in spain, 400 in the united kingdom. 60 years later, these survivors are still seeking justice, particularly for the medical costs associated with their condition. i voted against the resolution of the socialist group which is directed to the member states and the european commission to coordinate their actions, in particular with the creation of a framework protocol at european level. this motion for a resolution undermines the sovereignty of states. our motion for a resolution, tabled by italian meps salvini, bizzotto, borghezio, ciocca and fontana, calls for the creation of a european commission assistance programme to support and add value to the actions of the member states. this motion for a resolution respects the sovereignty of the member states, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in the 1950s and 1960s, thalidomide, a nausea and vomiting medicine from the german pharmaceutical company chemie-grünenthal, was given to pregnant women. more than 20,000 babies died or were born deformed. by now, there are thought to be more than 4,000 survivors left in europe: 450 in italy, 90 in austria, 2,800 in germany, 103 in sweden, 400 in spain, 400 in the united kingdom. sixty years later, these survivors are still seeking justice, especially for the medical costs associated with their condition. the enf group, and in particular my italian colleagues from the northern league, including mara bizzotto, also tabled a resolution calling for the creation of a european commission assistance programme to support and add value to the actions of the member states, while respecting their sovereignty. i therefore voted for this resolution and against the s&d resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution affirms its support for the victims of thalidomide, a drug introduced in 1954 to prevent nausea in pregnant women. the drug has led to many cases of malformations in newborns, with about 10,000 children affected, of whom 5,000 are still alive. the resolution strongly condemns the member states that were slow to withdraw thalidomide from the market, in particular spain, which was the last state to ban the drug. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it for their own purposes. i voted in favour of this resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on support for victims of thalidomide. this drug, which was widely used in europe during the 1950's, is responsible for many birth defects. each member state has adopted different measures for the care of thalidomide victims. since the scope and amount of support should not depend on the nationality of the victims, we call for better recognition of the status of thalidomide victims at european level. we also call on the company responsible for the production of thalidomide to take responsibility.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide is a medicine that can cause serious side effects if used without proper supervision. it can be the cause of fetal malformations in pregnant women, and it was the cause of many deaths in the 1960's. this resolution seeks to extend recognition of these victims to all member states. this recognition will therefore allow the extension of compensation measures for these victims. it is important that this public health problem be recognised and addressed at european level, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ manufactured in germany and marketed in the late 1950s, thalidomide is a prescription drug for pregnancy-related nausea, headache, cough, insomnia and colds. pregnant women in many european countries have consumed it, resulting in the death and birth defects of thousands of newborns. the scandal is all the more shocking as documents show failures in pharmaceutical control in the federal republic of germany fifty years later, victims are still fighting for compensation. the mechanisms vary from one state to another and thalidomide affected person status is not granted on the same terms everywhere. the european union and its member states must ensure that all citizens concerned have access to similar compensation. it is essential that the union shows solidarity by proposing a european programme of aid and support for the victims of this tragedy and their families.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the s&d group. the drug, manufactured by the german chemie-grünenthal laboratory, which is supposed to treat certain disorders such as morning sickness, caused severe deformities in the children of pregnant women who took it during pregnancy in the 1950's and 1960's. compensation and care for victims were unsatisfactory. we are against the s&d group's motion for a resolution, which calls for the creation of a framework protocol at european level.
in writing. ‒ for the enf group's motion for a resolution calling for the creation of an assistance programme to support and add value to member states' actions.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide is responsible for the death or malformation of more than 20 000 infants in europe. while it is entirely justified for survivors to bring legal action to cover medical costs, the proposal gives the commission alone the power to coordinate actions, bypassing national legislation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for greater recognition of thalidomide victims at european level. this drug caused a major health scandal in the 1960s because it was found to have serious side effects, causing malformations in the fetus in pregnant women.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it entrusts compensation for thalimonide victims to a group action under the auspices of the commission, bypassing national legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint motion for a resolution and in favour of the proposal of our group. the joint proposal (b8-1341/2016) aims to coordinate the actions of the member states and the commission and to create a european framework protocol. it is an attack on the sovereignty of states, and we oppose it. the text proposed by the enf group (b8-1343/2016) has the same objective of coordination but while respecting this sovereignty. it envisages the creation of a european commission assistance programme to support and add value to member states' actions, which we support. both proposals are in response to the effects of thalidomide, a drug distributed between 1950 and 1960, which caused many deaths and birth defects.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide was prescribed to pregnant women in the 1950s and 1960s by the german pharmaceutical industry and resulted in more than 20 000 stillborn or malformed babies. there are still over 4,000 survivors in europe today seeking justice. resolution 1: i voted against this resolution because it undermines the sovereignty of the states by seeking to coordinate the action of the commission and the states by creating, in particular, a european framework protocol. resolution 2: i voted for this resolution because it aims to create an assistance programme of the european commission to support the actions of the member states.
in writing. ‒ following the use of thalidomide, an anti-nausea medicine for pregnant women, in the 1950s and 1960s, which led to the death or malformation of more than 20 000 babies, parliament proposes to help the hundreds of survivors who are still seeking justice. the proposal put forward by the socialist group, calling on the commission to coordinate the actions of the member states, is an attack on national sovereignty and we shall therefore vote against it. but we support the enf group's call for the creation of a european commission assistance programme to support and add value to member states' actions.
in writing. ‒ on the s&d group resolution which is addressed directly to the member states and the european commission to coordinate their actions, in particular with the creation of a framework protocol at european level, i observe that it infringes the sovereignty of the states, so i vote against it. on the enf group's call for the creation of a european commission assistance programme to support and add value to the actions of the member states, i note that it respects the sovereignty of the member states, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in support of the victims of thalidomide. this nausea-reducing substance, marketed by a german laboratory, was the cause of severe malformations in tens of thousands of newborns in the 1950s and 1960s. many victims have not yet been recognised or compensated for their losses. the text calls on the german government to allow citizens of other member states to benefit from the german victims' compensation fund after they have been recognised as victims of the drug in their own country. it called on the spanish authorities to facilitate the identification and compensation of survivors of thalidomide.
in writing. ‒ during the 1950s and 1960s, thalidomide was prescribed to pregnant women throughout europe as a medicine for morning sickness. this drug, manufactured in germany, has caused death and deformities in thousands of newborn babies in many european countries. it is unacceptable that the survivors are still fighting for reparations almost 50 years after the fact. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution to ensure that victims from other eu member states, whose status has been recognised in their own countries, have access to the special health fund set up in germany for this purpose. we also ask the european commission to put in place financial measures to provide the best possible support to the victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ the drug thalidomide caused a real tragedy more than 50 years ago when it was introduced in europe. today, many victims are still fighting for compensation in several member states; this is unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of this text which calls on the european commission and the member states to coordinate their actions and measures to recognise and compensate the victims of thalidomide. germany must, in particular, allow victims to access the special health fund it has set up. we also call for a framework protocol at european level to be put in place to allow any european citizen affected by thalidomide to receive similar compensation amounts. finally, these measures must be accompanied by a european programme of aid and support for victims and their families. it is urgent that parliament be heard and that concrete and effective measures be taken as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ 2015 marked the 50th anniversary of the first european measure to improve the safety of medicines. the tragedy of thalidomide, prescribed in the 1950s and 1960s especially to pregnant women and causing severe birth defects, was the main inspiration. today, many thalidomide victims in the european union are seeing their physical and medical condition continue to deteriorate and are still looking for ways to cover the costs of their medical treatment. an oral question signed by all political groups was sent to the commission in march 2016 calling for better care for these victims and their families, and for similar compensation in all member states. the resolution follows up this issue and calls for compensation for thalidomide victims to be placed on the agenda of parliament's work from the beginning of 2017. i voted for it, of course.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to adapt treatments better to children by using specific medicines and not by adapting, often approximately, treatments for adults, as is still the case today. this resolution, which follows an oral question, aims to amend the current paediatric medicines regulation. particular emphasis is placed on drugs developed to treat cancer in children. the current text was largely bypassed by pharmaceutical companies, which in 10 years only released 2 new drugs. the text, despite its obvious shortcomings, is generally in the right direction in seeking to improve the regulation. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ on this text, our colleague joëlle mélin, from our enf group, co-authored the oral question and the motion for a resolution. it appears necessary to adapt treatments better to children by specific medication and not by an adaptation, often approximate, of treatments for adults, as is still the case today. the aim of this resolution is to amend the current paediatric medicines regulation. particular emphasis is placed on drugs developed to treat cancer in children. the current text was largely bypassed by pharmaceutical companies, which in ten years released only two new medicines. the text, despite its obvious shortcomings, is generally in the right direction in seeking to improve the regulation. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on paediatric medicines. in europe, cancer remains the leading cause of death among children aged 1 year and over. research is essential for the fight against cancer, which is the priority of paediatric medicine. i therefore join this call for the commission to publish, as soon as possible, a report on the obstacles to research and innovation in the paediatric medicines sector. armed with this report, the european union will be able to change its policy to fight the disease among the younger generation even more vigorously.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to better support and encourage research in paediatrics. i am glad that parliament is taking action on this urgent and essential matter. indeed, paediatric research is far too little developed in europe. there is a dramatic lack of knowledge about effective treatments to combat serious childhood illnesses. the commission is due to publish a report on the implementation of the 2006 paediatric medicines regulation in 2017 and it is essential that it allows for the establishment of a favourable environment for paediatric research. laboratories must be encouraged to complete their specific and specialised paediatric research and be forced to do so if they do not comply with the rules.
in writing. ‒ with 6,000 deaths a year, cancer is the leading cause of infant mortality in europe. thanks to the european paediatric regulation introduced in 2006, information on paediatric use of medicines is more extensive and of better quality. it has also encouraged the development of new treatments and new working methods. however, the incentives for the development of specific medicines for paediatric use remain insufficient, particularly in the case of specific diseases affecting only children. the commission must therefore carry out a thorough analysis of the obstacles to innovation in paediatric medicines as soon as possible and, on the basis of the results obtained, amend the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution. this resolution follows an oral question by mrs joëlle melin, co-rapporteur. the paediatric medicines regulation would aim to produce better child-friendly treatments, rather than approximate adaptations of treatments for adults. this gap is particularly evident in the treatment of childhood cancer: only two new drugs have been introduced in the last ten years. the new text is not entirely satisfactory, but it is moving in the right direction. so we supported it.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour: it is a question of adapting treatment to children, by means of specific medicines, rather than by an adaptation, often approximate, of treatment for adults. excellent work by mrs mélin, co-author of the oral question and the motion for a resolution in the envi committee.
in writing. ‒ i regret that for a decade we have not paid enough attention to the health of our children, which is a major concern for many adult parents. every year, 6,000 children die of cancer in europe because of lack of appropriate medicines. this is because of the lack of research in paediatric medicine due to the rigidity of existing procedures or the lack of incentives for the pharmaceutical industries to invest in this area. for example, since the entry into force of the paediatric medicines regulation in 2006, few mandatory paediatric investigation plans have been implemented. the parliament therefore recommends that the system be oriented so that laboratories are encouraged - via tax incentives or extensions of patent protection - to intensify research in paediatric medicine.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is necessary to adapt the treatment for children in the best possible way by the use of specific medicines, and not by treatment for adults which is necessarily inappropriate. this text, despite its imperfections, seems to me to be on the way to improvement. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to make improvements to the current regulation to encourage research in paediatrics, which is currently far too limited.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it encourages certain paediatric therapeutics, particularly oncological therapies.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the aim of the text is to amend the legislation on medicinal products for children so that they are developed specifically for paediatric purposes and not simply as an adaptation of treatments for adults. we support that objective.
in writing. - i was a co-author of this report. the original text has proved to be very flawed and erratic. the co-rapporteurs and i were quite satisfied with the partial rebalancing of the text, which, as amended, did not go against the interests of the young patients. the resolution seeks to amend the regulation on paediatric medicinal products and, more specifically, to adapt treatment for children by means of specific medicinal products rather than by adapting treatment for adults. this is mostly for cancer treatment. i therefore voted in favour of this text, of which i am a co-author, which is moving in the right direction despite the persistence of certain shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ we support this oral question, co-authored by mrs mélin, mep for the enf, which calls for better adaptation of treatments for children by developing specific medicines, not by adapting treatments for adults. the text mainly concerns cancer treatments and the european regulation on paediatric treatments currently in force, which has been deliberately circumvented by pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to adapt treatments better to children by using specific medicines and not by adapting, often approximately, treatments for adults, as is still the case today. this resolution, which follows an oral question, aims to amend the current paediatric medicines regulation. particular emphasis is placed on drugs developed to treat cancer in children. the current text was largely bypassed by pharmaceutical companies, which in ten years released only two new medicines. the text, despite its obvious shortcomings, is generally in the right direction in seeking to improve the regulation. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which encourages research into paediatric medicines, which is still far too scarce, particularly in the fight against cancer. since the entry into force of the paediatric regulation 10 years ago, only two paediatric anticancer medicines have been placed on the market. the text asks the commission to review the many exemptions which often exempt laboratories from their obligations to carry out paediatric investigation plans. it called on the commission to set up an incentive system for research into medicinal products for paediatric indications only.
in writing. ‒ 6,000 children die of cancer every year in europe. the entry into force of the paediatric regulation has improved research but has not led to significant progress in the treatment of diseases, especially childhood cancers. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in which we ask the european commission to amend this regulation as a matter of urgency in order to encourage medical research in paediatrics and to punish laboratories which do not invest enough in this field. it is unthinkable that in the 21st century, in europe, children are still the first victims of such neglect!
in writing. ‒ today, childhood cancers remain the leading cause of death by disease in children aged one year and over, and more than 6,000 young people die of cancer every year in europe. these figures are alarming and unacceptable! the 2006 paediatric regulation has made some progress but there are still obstacles in the treatment of the diseases. it is unacceptable that children die because of a lack of scientific and medical research into paediatric medicines. i supported this text which calls for the commission to evaluate the existing regulation and amend it in order to improve it substantially as soon as possible to make it more effective and operational.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to adapt treatments better to children by using specific medicines and not by adapting, often approximately, treatments for adults, as is still the case today. this resolution, which follows an oral question, seeks to amend the current paediatric medicines regulation. particular emphasis is placed on drugs developed to treat cancer in children. the current text was largely bypassed by pharmaceutical companies, which in 10 years only released 2 new drugs. the text, despite its obvious shortcomings, is generally in the right direction in seeking to improve the regulation. i voted for the text.
in writing. ‒ the paediatric regulation (ec) no 1901/2006 entered into force on 26 january 2007. the aim was to facilitate the development and availability of medicines for children aged 0 to 17. this resolution calls on the commission to complete and publish its report on the application of the regulation by the end of january 2017. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. it was possible to go further, especially in a resolution without legislative value, notably on the transparency of the costs of research and development of paediatric medicines or the request for the integration into european legislation of the un recommendations on innovation and access to medical technologies. the resolution is nevertheless positive. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to encourage and improve communication with citizens and to explain to them the different levels of competence (european, national and local), which means incurring expenditure at the expense of european taxpayers. in general, he wanted to increase the resources of the secretariat of the committee on petitions. it also wants to improve the treatment of petitions to improve the perception of the european institutions by petitioners and to explain the successes and benefits of the european project. he uses brexit, the migrant crisis and the rise of 'xenophobia and racism across europe' as a pretext for the committee on petitions to prove the merits of the european project. in other words, this report tends towards more public spending by the committee on petitions, claims to defend citizens except when they do not think "right" (brexit, rejection of "savage immigration", etc.) and recognizes the role of the peti committee as a substitute for the european commission against the states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i want to highlight the quality of the work undertaken by the committee on petitions. its role is very important as the timetable of its activities is not modelled on that of the commission, but is set by citizens who express their concerns about the different policies of the union. this report is an opportunity to underline that the right to petition the european parliament is a pillar of european citizenship.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, 1 431 petitions were received, a decrease of 47% compared to 2014 (2 714 petitions). 483 petitions were declared inadmissible; 943 petitions were declared admissible. of these, 424 were examined rapidly and closed after the petitioner was informed and 519 petitions were left open for discussion in the committee on petitions. the number of petitions received is modest in relation to the total population of the eu, which would indicate that the vast majority of citizens are still unaware of the existence of the right to petition and its usefulness. the report proposes, among other things, to 'encourage communication with citizens to explain the different levels of competence and to increase the technical and human resources of the peti committee using brexit, migrants or the rise of 'xenophobia' as pretexts. the report therefore encourages more spending and recognises the role of the peti committee as a substitute for the european commission against the states. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ if this report were to make recommendations on the criteria for the admissibility of petitions, i could support it, but since it takes advantage of this subject to call for additional expenditure in order to promote the european construction, its successes and its advantages, to the detriment of the sovereignty of the member states, i can only oppose it. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report reports on the activities of the committee on petitions during 2015. the report stresses that the right to petition should strengthen the european parliament's capacity to react, helping to solve problems mainly related to the transposition and application of eu law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. considering that the full implementation of european law is an essential condition for the effectiveness of european action, i voted in favour.
in writing. i supported the text on the annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015. the right of every citizen to petition is paramount. by helping european citizens to solve their problems, mainly related to the transposition and application of eu law, this right to petition makes it possible to better assess the effects of eu legislation on citizens' daily lives. in order to speed up the administrative procedure, i stress the need for an efficient and operational digitisation of the processing of petitions, enabling citizens of the union to follow their processing at all times, but also to sign their own petitions electronically.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the number of petitions is down by 47% compared to 2014, although it remains negligible in relation to the population of the european union, with only 1 431 petitions received in 2015. since this service seems to be unknown, the rapporteur proposes to improve the communication and the facilities of the secretariat of the petitions service. brexit, the migrant crisis and the rise of 'xenophobia and racism across europe' are used as pretexts to justify this need for communication with european citizens. we cannot support a further increase in the budget for this service, especially if it is intended to support a politically oriented communication.
in writing. ‒ vote against: this report calls for more public spending by the committee on petitions, which claims to defend citizens, except when they are not thinking right (brexit, rejection of wild immigration, etc.). the committee also recognises the role of the peti committee as a substitute for the european commission against the states.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's desire to improve communication with citizens and the visibility of institutions would lead to an increase in public spending, to the detriment of those same citizens. the reasons given, such as brexit or the rise of xenophobia, are just excuses. this project is nothing but yet another attempt to save the community spirit, with variable geometry. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which presents the activities of the committee on petitions for 2015. the text recalls that petitions are a barometer of citizens' concerns about the decisions of national authorities and shortcomings in the application of eu legislation. it is noted that the majority of petitioners submit complaints concerning the environment, justice, the internal market, fundamental rights and transport. we call for a stronger commitment from the commission to make the european citizens' initiative work and develop its full potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for an increase in the technical and human resources of the secretariat of the committee on petitions. but this is for propaganda purposes, because it states that petitions should be used to explain the union's achievements. i believe that the real intermediaries between the union and the citizens are the members of the european parliament, not this bureaucratic committee. in one weekend, i get more citizens than this commission does in a year!
in writing. - i voted against this report. this text is a summary of the work of the parliamentary committee on petitions in 2015. the rapporteur suggests that the budget for the peti committee secretariat be increased in order to deal with petitions as soon as possible. we find this increase unreasonable, given that the number of petitions processed by the committee in 2015 decreased compared to 2014. the report also envisages the reinforcement of community propaganda on the pretext of the lack of sufficient information on the tools of democracy available to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this is an annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions: it shows that 1 431 petitions were received in 2015, compared to 2 714 in 2014, a decrease of 47%. the rapporteur therefore wishes to encourage and improve communication with citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this report therefore claims to defend citizens, except when they are not in line with the single line of thinking set by the european union. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ we vote against this report, which only calls for more parliamentary spending to improve the image of the european institutions, including by maintaining a 'democratic' facade, to continue to spread pro-migrant europeanist ideas, to combat the rise of 'xenophobia and racism across europe' and to give the committee on petitions a role as a substitute for the european commission in its fight against state sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to increase public spending by the committee on petitions, claims to defend citizens except when they do not think right (brexit, rejection of wild immigration, etc.) and recognises the role of the peti committee as a substitute for the european commission against the states. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which takes stock of the activities of the committee on petitions of the european parliament in 2015: 1 431 petitions (including 943 admissible) were received in 2015, a decrease of 47% compared to 2014; 424 of these were subject to a rapid examination which provided the petitioner with relevant information; 519 were left open for discussion in committee; 483 were declared inadmissible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report which is a summary of the work done by the committee on petitions. this report aims to give a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions; it provides statistics on the number of petitions received, processed and closed by the committee, as well as on the countries concerned and the issues raised. i would remind you that the right to petition the european parliament is a fundamental right of european citizens, who can thus express their concerns about the various policies and legislative measures of the union.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to encourage and improve communication with citizens and to explain to them the different levels of competence (european, national and local), which means incurring expenditure at the expense of european taxpayers. in general, it wished to increase the technical and human resources of the secretariat of the committee on petitions to ensure a reasonable processing time. it also wants to improve the treatment of petitions to make petitioners' perception of the european institutions more positive and to explain the successes and benefits of the european project. he also recalled that the committee on petitions had warned the european commission against the failings of the states. in other words, this report tends towards more public spending by the committee on petitions, which claims to defend citizens, except when they do not think "right" (brexit, rejection of "savage immigration", etc.), and recognizes the role of the peti committee as a substitute for the european commission against the states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the right to petition the european parliament is one of the few institutional instruments of european citizenship. the european parliament's committee on petitions collects citizens' initiatives, which is a barometer for measuring their concerns. this annual report provides a comprehensive and accurate overview of the commission's activities in 2015 and its relations with other european, national and regional institutions. the statistics thus compiled show that the concerns of european citizens relate to the environment, animal protection, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. the report is very critical of the commission's role, which citizens are asking in particular to do more to ensure that the treaties are respected in these areas. this is a kind of proof of the way in which european society is ahead of its institutions in these matters. i voted in favour of this report by my spanish colleague from the gue/ngl, angela vallina.
in writing. ‒ the negotiations for the future of european aviation, particularly french aviation, are crucial. as a reminder, as early as the early 2000s, air france had alerted the european and national authorities to the threat of unfair competition from gulf carriers. it is essential to send a clear and very strong political message to the commission to ensure that it adopts a transparent approach towards the ep and national authorities. it is right to deplore him given his philosophy on competition and his disastrous record on deregulation. i voted against the motion for a resolution by the committee on transport which merely calls for the commission to be transparent with parliament and for the motions for resolutions by the efdd and enl which not only require the commission to be fully transparent but also to guarantee fair and fair competition between air carriers through specific legal clauses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i also believe that parliament should be involved from the outset in the negotiation of international aviation agreements. it is therefore necessary for the commission to provide parliament with information on the launch of certain negotiations and with the information necessary for the analysis of these agreements.
in writing. ‒ this oral question from the committee on transport, which calls for more transparency in the negotiations vis-à-vis parliament, is certainly in the right direction, but it is far from covering the whole subject. the transfer of sovereignty from the member states to the european union in the negotiation of traffic rights ipso facto leads to a reversal of the balance of power with third countries: they gain access to the whole of the vast european market, while they can only concede a few things in exchange, most of which have already been conceded. this type of negotiation therefore considerably weakens the position of european airlines in relation to those of third countries. i therefore vote against this oral question. on the contrary, i am voting for the resolution by the efdd and the enl.
in writing. for an international aviation agreement to enter into force, it must be approved by the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. as several negotiations are about to begin on international aviation agreements, in particular with china, japan and mexico, i voted in favour of this resolution to remind the commission of the role of the european parliament in approving such agreements and to ensure effective negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the tran committee's motion for a resolution. in december 2015, the commission presented an aviation strategy for europe, involving, inter alia: - the opening of safety agreements with japan and china; - the opening of air services agreements with china, turkey, mexico, the six member states of the gulf cooperation council, armenia and the association of southeast asian nations. the aim of these agreements is to replace existing bilateral agreements with a single european agreement, enabling european carriers to compete with emerging countries, particularly those in the gulf. however, the commission is still unclear as to the conditions for these negotiations. in addition, the precedents in this area have not been favourable to the european union, notably with regard to the united states (2007) as regards reciprocity (acquisition of voting shares in american companies of up to 25%, compared to 49.9% in europe, prohibition of cabotage, etc.). the enf group, on the other hand, called for more transparency in these negotiations.
in writing. ‒ vote for the efdd and enl motions for resolutions which not only require the commission to be fully transparent but also to guarantee fair and equitable competition between air carriers through specific legal clauses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. it will encourage the adoption of our standards in the aviation sector in order to ensure the safety of european passengers as much as possible and to establish fair competition with third countries. this resolution rightly provides for technical and scientific collaboration between the eu and the other parties in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft, which are increasingly contributing to global warming.
in writing. ‒ in a context of tough competition between our aviation and the airlines and hubs of the gulf and turkey, it is essential to assess the stakes of this agreement and to ensure its reciprocal application by the other parties. the commission is not clear on the non-negotiable points that guarantee fair and just competition, and i think it is essential to be firm in addressing the substantive issues inherent in these 'open skies' agreements with the commission, rather than simply calling for transparency on its part with parliament. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to involve the european parliament fully and to inform it fully of any international agreement on aviation. it is important that our institution, which represents the peoples, be kept informed in real time of all the information relating to the negotiations in this major area. this is important to remember, as the commission has proposed in its aviation strategy for europe to open, for example, negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china or air services agreements at union level with turkey, china, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it merely asks the commission to be transparent with parliament without ever addressing the substantive problems raised by the 'open skies' agreements (reciprocity, investments, rules for controlling airlines, working conditions, traffic rights, clauses guaranteeing fair and just competition, etc.).
in writing. - i voted against this text. the resolution, which was put to the vote by the committee on transport and tourism, aims to increase the level of transparency of the european commission's actions in the field of international aviation agreements. we support this principle but we cannot accept that the rapporteurs should limit themselves to this request. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate in the gulf. we have proposed an alternative resolution, which we consider to be insufficient. the motion for a resolution tabled by our group in parliament stressed the need to ensure fair and fair competition between air carriers by means of specific legal clauses. it was unfortunately rejected by parliament.
in writing. ‒ this is a motion for a resolution from the tran committee on international aviation agreements with, inter alia, the association of southeast asian nations, turkey, qatar, the united arab emirates and armenia. the resolution simply seeks clarification of the objectives and issues of the negotiations which have begun, since, as with ceta, tafta and tisa, the commission is very discreet on this subject. i therefore voted against the first tran resolution, since it simply asks for clarification. i voted for the efdd and enl resolution which, in addition to calling for more transparency from the commission, also calls for the guarantee of fair and equitable competition in the air transport sector through specific legal clauses.
in writing. ‒ since december 2015, the commission has been undertaking to amend the rules on international air agreements. despite the fact that the chicago convention has enshrined the sovereignty of states over their airspace, the commission is trying to obtain new negotiating mandates to simplify line openings and develop air links by replacing existing bilateral treaties with a single european agreement. the oral question put to the vote was therefore intended to remind the commission of the serious problems facing european airlines in maintaining their shares in the long-haul market, particularly as a result of unfair competition from the gulf countries. parliament also criticised the total opacity of the negotiations between the commission and the countries with which new agreements were to be signed, such as ceta, tisa and tafta. however, this oral question has been emptied of its content by the epp and ecr, and only asks for more transparency from the european commission. we shall therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the oral question was welcome in view of the crucial issues at stake in these negotiations for the future of european aviation, particularly french aviation. as a reminder, as early as the early 2000s, air france had alerted the european and national authorities to the threat of unfair competition from gulf carriers. it is essential to send a clear and very strong political message to the commission to ensure that it adopts a transparent approach towards the european parliament and the national authorities. it is right to deplore him, given his philosophy on competition and his disastrous record on deregulation. i therefore vote against the tran motion for a resolution which merely calls for the commission to be transparent with parliament and i vote for the efdd and enl motions for resolutions which not only call for full transparency from the commission but also call for the commission to guarantee fair and fair competition between air carriers through specific legal clauses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on international aviation agreements. the text reminds the european commission that it must involve the european parliament from the outset of the procedure for negotiating aviation agreements with third countries so that meps can freely decide whether or not to give their consent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls that parliament must be kept fully informed of all the progress of the negotiations on aviation agreements. i say this as rapporteur for parliament on the agreement currently being negotiated on aviation safety between the european union and japan. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation strategy. when the agreements are concluded, we will have the final say in whether or not to approve the final agreement. we must therefore know now where the negotiations are going so that we can redirect the discussions if necessary.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the customs code is an outdated document before it is even fully implemented. it is based on ideological, free trade and globalist foundations, which have been promoted since davos and the wto. this ideology has been rejected by many peoples and by the citizens of the world's leading economy, the united states. with donald trump, trade is for national development and protection of industry. customs duties are necessary to balance trade in the spirit of the havana charter for peace in trade. your customs code of the union starts from a presupposition: the general abolition of these duties to facilitate trade. so we need to keep reducing the control rate. in the age of protectionism and tariff rearmament, the european union is still a step behind. in addition to the commission's new contribution to the liquidation of our monarchical states, by giving importers greater freedom to clear customs wherever they wish, particularly with centralised clearance, you are encouraging them to shop among the customs administrations for the most lax and least-discriminatory. you are also weakening our states and making them insecure. your technological instruments - ecs, ics - which claim to put customs fraud into the digital equation will never replace the instinct, experience and knowledge of the customs field: the investigation, the chain of custody, systematic protection. by accelerating the destruction of our customs protections, you continue to hand over our economies to unfair competition, to the social dumping that our fellow citizens are already suffering, you also hand over our societies to criminal organizations, to whom you guarantee a perpetual income by your inefficiency. then we have the christmas hope, eternity in the face of the temporal bankruptcy of a world that needs saving. merry christmas to you!
